
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh State Financial Corporation General Regulations, 2004
Andhra Pradesh State Financial Corporation General Regulations,
2004
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/87429592/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh State Financial Corporation General Regulations, 2004
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh State Financial Corporation General Regulations, 2004
Rule ANDHRA-PRADESH-STATE-FINANCIAL-CORPORATION-GENERAL-REGULATIONS-2004 of 2004
Published on 15 October 2004
Commenced on 15 October 2004
[This is the version of this document from 15 October 2004.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Andhra Pradesh State Financial Corporation General Regulations, 2004
Published vide Notification No. G.O.Ms. No. 232, dated 15.10.2004
Last Updated 12th September, 2019
G.O.Ms. No. 232. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 48 of the State Financial Corporations Act, 1951
(LXIII of 1951), and in supersession of the Andhra Pradesh State Financial Corporation General Regulations, except as
respect things done or omitted to be done before such supersession, the Board of Directors of the Andhra Pradesh
State Financial Corporation, after consultation with the Small Industries Development Bank of India and with the
previous sanction of the Government of Andhra Pradesh, hereby vide G.O.Ms.No.232 Industries & Commerce (IF. Cell)
Department Dated: 15.10.2004 makes the following regulations, namely:-
Page 1/34
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh State Financial Corporation General Regulations, 2004
Chapter I
INTRODUCTORY
1.
Short Title and Commencement.
(1)
These Regulations may be called Andhra Pradesh State Financial Corporation General Regulations, 2004.
(2)
These Regulations shall come into force from the date of publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
- In these Regulations unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context:-
(a)
"The Act" means the State Financial Corporations Act, 1951 (LXIII of 1951) as amended from time to time.
(b)
"Corporation" means the Andhra Pradesh State Financial Corporation.
(c)
"Depository" shall mean a depository as defined under clause (e) of sub section (1) of section 2 of the Depositories Act,
1996.
(d)
"In Writing" or "Written" mean and include printing, lithography and other modes of representing or reproducing words,
information, instructions prepared in a formalised manner intended to be processed in a Computer system or Computer
net work and may be in any form or stored internally in the memory of the Computer.
(e)
"Member" means a member of the Executive Committee constituted under sub-section (1) of section-18 or, as the case
may be, any other Committee constituted under section-21.
(f)
"Register" means the register of shareholders kept in one or more books of the Corporation and includes the register of
shareholders kept in computer floppies, diskettes, compact disk or any other electronic form under section 6 of the Act,
"as also the register of beneficial owners maintained by a depository under section 11 of the Depositories Act, 1996".
(g)
"Beneficial owner" means the beneficial owners as defined under clause (a) of sub section (1) of Section 2 of the
Depositories Act, 1996.
(h)
Words and expressions used herein and not defined in these Regulations but defined in the Act shall have the meanings
respectively assigned to them in those Acts.
CHAPTER-II Shares Of The Corporation
3.
Shares - Movable Property.
(a)
The equity shares of the Corporation will be for the face value of Rs.100/- each.
(b)
The shares of the Corporation shall be movable property.
4.
Allotment of Shares.
- (i) Subject to the provisions of Section 4 of the Act, the Board shall allot shares on the basis of application made for the
purpose.
(ii)
An application for allotment of shares may not be entertained unless an amount of at least 25 per cent of the full value
has been paid with the application.
(iii)
The Board may make allotment to an applicant for shares either in full or in part, depending on the number of applicants
Page 2/34
----- PAGE 3 -----
Andhra Pradesh State Financial Corporation General Regulations, 2004
from the class of shareholders to which he belongs. In so far as it is practicable, the Board shall make full allotment in
respect of applications upto such number of shares as the Board may decide so that there may be as many
shareholders of that class as possible and the allotment in respect of remaining applications shall be made in part,
provided, however, that no allotment shall be made for a number of shares which is less than five, or which is not a
multiple of five, and provided further that the number of shares that may be allotted to an applicant, shall in no case
exceed such number of shares as may be allocated to the class of shareholders to which he belongs.
(iv)
The decision of the Board as to whether on a particular application for shares, there shall be full, partial or no allotment
shall be final.
(v)
If a person to whom shares have been allotted fails to pay the balance of the full value of shares due on the shares
allotted to him by the date mentioned in the letter of allotment for the payment of the same, the amount paid with the
application may be forfeited and the allotment treated as cancelled and the Board may proceed to dispose of the said
shares as if no allotment had been made in respect thereof.
(vi)
For the purpose of making the allotment, there shall be a Committee of the Board consisting of the Chairman, the
Managing Director and one other Director who shall be appointed in this behalf by the Chairman. The Committee so
constituted shall advise the Board in making allotments of shares.
5.
Control over Shares.
- Subject to the provisions of the Act and these Regulations, the Board shall decide any question relating to any matters
pertaining to the shares other than those covered by specific Regulations hereafter, provided that nothing contained in
this regulation shall apply to the shares held with a depository. The register of beneficial owners maintained by a
depository under Section 11 of the Depositories Act, 1996, shall be deemed to be the Register of Share holders for the
purpose of this regulation.
6.
Parties who may not be registered as Shareholders.
- Except as otherwise provided by these Regulations, no minor or person who has been found by Court of competent
jurisdiction to be of unsound mind shall be entitled to be registered as a shareholder.
7.
Joint Holding of Shares.
- (i) Except in the case of individuals, the Corporation shall not recognize the joint holding of shares.
(ii)
In the case of firms, shares to be registered not in the name of firms but only in the names of the individual partners of
the firms. The total number of joint holder shall not exceed three.
8.
Share Register.
- (i) The Corporation shall maintain, at its Head Office, a register of shareholders qualified by the Act to be registered
therein either in manual or in accordance with and subject to the provisions of Information Technology Act, 2000 and the
Rules made thereunder, in the format enclosed as at Annexure" A".
(ii)
Control over Shares and Registers. - Subject to the provisions of the Act and these Regulations and such directions as
the Board may give from time to time, the register kept at the Head Office shall be maintained by and be under the
control of the Board and the decision of the Board as to whether or not a person is entitled to be registered as a
shareholder in respect of any share shall be final.
Provided that nothing contained in this regulation shall apply to shares held with the depositories under the Depositories
Act, 1996.
(iii)
A separate ledger shall be maintained in the share register for each class of shareholders referred to in Section-4 and
4A of the Act.
(iv)
Page 3/34
----- PAGE 4 -----
Andhra Pradesh State Financial Corporation General Regulations, 2004
(a)
In the case of joint holders of any shares, their names and the other particulars required by clause 1 shall be grouped
under the name of the first of such joint holders.
(b)
Nothing contained herein above in these Regulations shall apply to shares held with the depository under the Depository
Act, 1996.
(c)
The register of beneficial owners maintained by a depository under section 11 of the Depository Act, 1996 shall be
deemed to be register of shareholders.
(d)
A separate register shall be maintained for debentures and debenture holders.
(v)
In case if it is directed by the Board to register the shareholders in computer floppies or compact disk or any other
electronic form contained particulars mentioned in clause (i), then it shall be under the custody of the officer as may be
authorised by the Board and such officer shall only have an access to the key number, password of the compact disk
and diskette floppy.
(vi)
A shareholder resident outside India shall furnish to the Corporation an address in India and such address when entered
in the register shall be deemed to be his registered address for the purpose of the Act and these Regulations.
9.
Trust not to be recognised.
- The Corporation shall deal with the shareholders irrespective of whether they are full owners of their shares or trustees
for some other person or persons. No notice of any trust expressed, implied or constructive shall be entered on the
register, nor shall any trust be recognised by the Corporation.
10.
Exercise of Right of Joint Holders.
- If any share stands jointly in the names of two or more persons, the person first named in the register shall, as regards
voting , receipt of dividends, service of notices and all or any other matter connected with the Corporation, except the
transfer of the share, be deemed to be the sole holder thereof.
11.
Inspection of Share Register.
- (i) The share register maintained under Regulation 8, except when closed under the provisions of these Regulations,
shall be open to the inspection of any shareholder free of charge at the Head Office of the Corporation during business
hours subject to such reasonable restrictions as the Managing Director may impose, but so that not less than two hours
in each working day may be allowed for inspection.
(ii)
A shareholder shall not have the right himself to make a copy of any entry in any such register, but may, except when
the register is closed, require a copy of any such register or any part thereof on prepayment therefor at such rate as may
be decided by the Managing Director from time to time with the approval of the Board for every hundred words or
fractional part thereof required to be copied.
(iii)
Notwithstanding anything contained in clause (ii), any officer of the Government or the Small Industries Development
Bank authorised in this behalf, shall have the right to make a copy of any entry in the register or require a copy of the
register or any part thereof free of charge.
12.
Closing of Share Register.
- The Board may, after giving not less than seven days previous notice by advertisement, in the newspaper circulating in
the place where the Head Office of the Corporation is situated, close the share register for such periods (not exceeding
forty five days in all during any one financial year) as shall, in its opinion, be necessary but not exceeding 30 days at one
time.
13.
Page 4/34
----- PAGE 5 -----
Andhra Pradesh State Financial Corporation General Regulations, 2004
Share Certificates.
- (i) Every share certificate shall be issued in the format enclosed as at Annexure "B", as modified by the Board from
time to time.
(ii)
Every share certificate shall be signed on behalf of the Corporation by Managing Director besides one director duly
authorised in this behalf by the Board and such signature may be printed, engraved, lithographed or impressed by such
other process as the Board may direct.
(iii)
A signature so printed, engraved, lithographed or otherwise impressed shall be as valid as a signature in the proper
handwriting of the signatory himself, provided that nothing contained in this regulation shall apply to the shares held with
a depository.
(iv)
Every share certificate shall be issued under the Common Seal of the Corporation.
14.
Issue of Share Certificate free of charge.
- (i) The State Government and the Small Industries Bank shall each be entitled free of charge, to one certificate for all
the shares registered in their names at each allotment. If any shares are allotted to the State Government and the Small
Industries Bank in pursuance of sub-section (5) of Section-4, of the Act an additional certificate in respect of such shares
shall also be issued free of charge to the State Government and the Small Industries Bank respectively.
(ii)
Every other shareholder shall be entitled, free of charge, to one certificate, for each 50 shares registered in his name
and one additional certificate for the number of shares in excess of a multiple of 50 shares registered in his name at
each allotment. A shareholder holding less than 50 shares shall be entitled, free of charge, to one certificate for all the
shares registered in his name at each allotment.
(iii)
If any shareholder requires more certificates than the number to which he is entitled free of charge under this
Regulation, he shall pay for each additional certificate, such sum as may be decided by the Managing Director from time
to time with the approval of the Board.
In the case of shares held jointly by several persons, delivery of the relative certificates to one of such joint holders shall
be sufficient delivery to all and the receipt therefor signed by any one of the joint holders shall effectively bind all the joint
holders.
15.
Issue of duplicate/sub-division of Share Certificates.
- (i) If any share certificate is worn out or defaced or tendered for sub-division, then upon production thereof to the Head
Office of the Corporation, it may order the same to be cancelled and have a new certificate or certificates issued in lieu
thereof.
(ii)
If any Share Certificate is alleged to be lost or destroyed, then after publication of such loss atleast once in any
Newspaper circulating in the State of Andhra Pradesh and/ or upon production of such evidence of the loss or
destruction thereof as the Board may consider satisfactory and upon such indemnity with or without security as the
Board may require a new certificate in lieu thereof shall be given to the party entitled to such lost or destroyed certificate
and the person availing himself of the provisions of all the expenses incidental to the advertisement and investigation of
evidence of loss or destruction and the preparation of requisite form of indemnity as aforesaid.
(iii)
For every certificate issued under this Regulation, they shall be paid to the Corporation a sum of Rs.10/- or a sum as
may be decided by the Managing Director from time to time with the approval of the Board.
16.
Transfer of Shares.
- (i) Subject to the restrictions contained in the Act and in these Regulations, shares except redeemable preference
shares shall be transferable, but every transfer shall be in writing and in the form prescribed under the Companies Act,
1956 for transfer of shares.
Page 5/34
----- PAGE 6 -----
Andhra Pradesh State Financial Corporation General Regulations, 2004
(ii)
The instrument of transfer of shares, duly stamped and signed by the transferor and transferee or by any persons duly
authorised to do so on their behalf shall be submitted to the Board together with the relative share certificate(s), and the
transferor shall be deemed to remain the holder of such shares until the name of the transferee is entered in the Share
Register. Each signature to such transfer shall be duly attested by one witness who shall sign giving his address and
occupation.
(iii)
The above provisions in clauses (i) and (ii) of Regulation-16 shall also apply to transfer of debentures/bonds.
(iv)
Upon receipt by the Board of an instrument of transfer with a request to register the transfer, the Board shall, unless it
refuses to register the transfer under sub-section (3) of section 5 of the Act , cause the transfer to be registered, at the
rate fixed by Managing Director from time to time with the approval of the Board.
17.
Power to suspend transfer.
- The Board may suspend the registration of transfer during any period in which the register is closed.
18.
Power to refuse recognition of instrument of Transfer.
- (i) The Board may decline to recognize any instrument of Transfer unless:
a. a sum of rupees 10/- or a sum as may be decided by the Managing Director from time to time with the approval of the
Board is paid to the Corporation in respect thereof, which sum shall not, in any event, be refunded.
b. the instrument of transfer is accompanied by the certificate of the shares/ debentures to which it relates; and
c. the parties furnish such other evidence as the Corporation may reasonably require in connection with the transfer.
(ii)
Upon receipt by the Board of an instrument of Transfer with a request to register the transfer, the Board shall make such
enquiry as it may consider necessary to satisfy itself that the transferee is qualified under the Act and these Regulations
to be registered as a shareholder.
19.
Transmission of shares/debentures in the event of death, insolvency etc of a shareholder/debenture holder/security
holder".
- (i) The executors or administrators of a deceased sole holder of the shares/debentures/ securities or the holder of a
Succession Certificate issued under Part X of the Indian Succession Act, 1925, in respect of such shares/debentures/
securities or a person, in whose favour a valid instrument of transfer of such shares/ debentures / securities was
executed by such a person or by the deceased share holder during the latter's life time, shall be the only person who
may be recognized by the Corporation as having any title to the shares/debentures/ securities of the deceased
shareholder/debentureholder/security holder. In the case of the shares/debentures/securities registered in the names of
two or more share holders/debenture holders/ security holders, the survivor or survivors and on the death of the last
survivor, his executors or administrators, or any person who is the holder of a Succession Certificate in respect of such
shares/debentures/securities, or a person in whose favour a valid instrument of transfer of shares/debenture/ securities
was executed by such persons and such last survivor during the latter's life time, shall be the only person who may be
recognised by the Corporation as having any title to such shares/debentures/ securities. The Corporation shall not be
bound to recognise such executors or administrators unless they shall have obtained Probate or Letters of
Administration, or other legal representation as the case may be, from a duly constituted Court in India having effect at
the place where the Share Register of the Corporation is maintained, provided nevertheless that in any case where the
Board to dispense with the production of a Succession Certificate, Letters of Administration or such other legal
representation upon such terms as to indemnify or otherwise as the Board may think fit.
(ii)
Any such person becoming entitled to shares in consequence of the death of a shareholder/debenture holder / security
holder and any person becoming entitled to shares/ debentures/ securities in consequence of the insolvency,
bankruptcy, or liquidation of a shareholder/debenture holder / security holder shall, upon production of such evidence as
the Board may require have the right:
(a)
Page 6/34
----- PAGE 7 -----
Andhra Pradesh State Financial Corporation General Regulations, 2004
to be registered as a shareholder/debentureholder / security holder in respect of the shares/debentures/ securities upon
his satisfying the Board in the same manner as if he were the proposed transferee under clause (ii) of Regulation 18 that
he is qualified to be a shareholder/debenture holder/ security holder , or
(b)
to make such transfer of the shares/debentures/ securities as the person from whom he derives his title could have
made.
20.
Calls on shares.
- The Board may, from time to time, make such calls as it thinks fit upon the shareholders in respect of all moneys
remaining unpaid on the shares held by them, and not by the conditions of allotment thereof made payable at fixed
times, and each shareholder shall pay the amount of every call so made on him to the person and at the time and place
appointed by the Board. A call may be made payable by instalment.
21.
Calls on date from resolution.
- A call shall be deemed to have been made at the time when resolution of the Board authorising such call was passed
and may be made payable by the shareholders on the register on such date or at the discretion of the Board on such
subsequent date as may be fixed by the Board.
22.
Notice of call.
- A notice of not less than thirty days of every call shall be given specifying the time of payment provided that before the
time for payment of such call the Board may by notice in writing to the shareholders revoke the same.
23.
Extension of time for payment of call.
- The Board may, from time to time and at its discretion, extend the time fixed for the payment of any call as to all or any
of the shareholders having regard to the circumstances or some other sufficient cause, but no shareholder shall be
entitled to such extension as a matter of right.
24.
Liabilities of Joint Holders.
- The joint holders of a share shall be jointly and severally liable to pay all calls in respect thereof.
25.
Amount payable at fixed time or by instalments as calls.
- If by the terms of issue of any share or otherwise any amount is payable at any fixed time or by instalments at fixed
time, every such amount or instalment shall be payable as it it were a call duly made by the Board and of which due
notice had been given and all the provisions herein contained in respect of instalment accordingly.
26.
When interest on call or instalment payable.
- If the sum payable in respect of any call or instalment is not paid on or before the day appointed for payment thereof,
the holder for the time being or the allottee of the share in respect of which a call shall have been made, or the
instalment shall be due, shall pay interest on such sum at such rate as the Board may fix, from time to time, from the day
appointed for the payment thereof to the time of actual payment, but the Board may waive payment of such interest
wholly or in part.
27.
Non-payment of calls by shareholder.
- No shareholder shall be entitled to receive any dividend or to exercise any privilege as a shareholder until he shall
have paid all calls for the time being due and payable on every share held by him, whether singly or jointly with any
person, together with interest and expenses, if any.
28.
Notice to be given if call or installment not paid.
- If any shareholder fails to pay the whole or any part of a call or instalment or any money due in respect of any shares
either by way of principal or interest on or before the day appointed for the payment of the same, the Board may at any
time thereafter during such time as the call or instalment or any part thereof or other moneys remain unpaid or a
Page 7/34
----- PAGE 8 -----
Andhra Pradesh State Financial Corporation General Regulations, 2004
judgement or decree in respect thereof remains unsatisfied in whole or in part, serve a notice on such shareholder or on
the person (if any) entitled to the share by transmission, requiring him to pay such call or instalment or such part thereof
or other moneys as remain unpaid together with any interest that may have accrued and all expenses (legal or
otherwise) that may have been paid or incurred by the Corporation by reason of such non-payment.
29.
Form of notice.
- The notice shall name a day not being less than fourteen days from the date of the notice and the place or places on
and at which such call or instalment or such part or other monies and such interest and expenses as aforesaid are to be
paid. The notice shall also state that in the event of non-payment on or before the time and at the place appointed, the
share in respect of which the call was made or instalment is payable will be liable to be forfeited.
30.
In default of payment, shares to be forfeited.
- If the requirements of any such notice as aforesaid are not complied with, any of the shares in respect of which such
notice has been given may at any time thereafter before payment of all calls or instalments, interest and expenses or the
money due in respect thereof, be forfeited by a resolution of the Board to that effect. Such forfeiture shall include all
dividends declared in respect of the forfeited shares and not actually paid before the forfeiture.
31.
Entry of forfeiture in the Register.
- When any share has been forfeited under Regulation 30, an entry of the forfeiture with the date thereof shall be made
in the register.
32.
Forfeited shares to be property of the Corporation and may be sold.
- Any share so forfeited shall be deemed to be the property of the Corporation and may be sold, reallotted or otherwise
disposed of, either to the original holder thereof or to any other person upon such terms and in such manner as the
Board may decide.
33.
Power to annul forfeiture.
- The Board may, at any time, before any share so forfeited under Regulation 30 shall have been sold, reallotted or
otherwise disposed of, annul the forfeiture thereof upon such conditions as it may think fit.
34.
Shareholder liable to pay money owing at the time of forfeiture and interest.
- Any shareholder whose shares have been forfeited shall, notwithstanding the forfeiture, be liable to pay and shall
forthwith pay to the Corporation all calls, instalments, interest, expenses and other amounts owing upon or in respect of
such shares at the time of the forfeiture with interest thereon from the time of forfeiture until payment at such rate as
may be specified by the Board and the Board may enforce the payment of the whole or a portion thereof.
35.
Partial payment not to preclude forfeiture.
- Neither a judgement nor a decree in favour of the Corporation for calls or other amounts due in respect of any shares
nor any payment of satisfaction thereunder nor the receipt by the Corporation of a portion of any money which shall be
due from any shareholder from time to time in respect of any shareholder from time to time in respect of any shares
either by way of principal or interest nor any indulgence granted by the Corporation in respect of payment of any money
shall preclude the forfeiture of such shares under these regulations.
36.
Application of forfeiture provisions.
- The provisions of these Regulations as to the forfeiture shall apply in the case of non-payment of any sum which by
terms of issue of a share becomes payable at a fixed time, as if the same had been payable at a fixed time, as if the
same had been payable by virtue of a call duly made.
37.
Corporation's lien on Shares.
- The Corporation shall have a first lien upon all shares registered in the name of each shareholder and upon the
proceeds of sale thereof for his debts, liabilities and engagements solely or jointly with any other person to or with the
Page 8/34
----- PAGE 9 -----
Andhra Pradesh State Financial Corporation General Regulations, 2004
Corporation whether the period for the payment, fulfillment or discharge thereof shall have actually arrived or not, and
such lien shall extend to all dividends from time to time declared in respect of such shares. Unless otherwise agreed, the
registration of a transfer of shares shall operate as a waiver of the Corporation's lien, if any, on such shares.
38.
Enforcing lien by sale of shares.
- The Board may, for the purpose of enforcing the lien referred to in Regulation 37 sell the shares subject thereto in such
manner as it things fit, but no sale shall be made unless any sum in respect of which the lien exists is presently payable
nor until notice in writing of the intention to sell shall have been served on such shareholder or person, if any, entitled for
transmission to the shares and default shall have been made by him in payment of the sum presently payable for seven
days after such notice.
39.
Application of proceeds of sale of shares.
- The net proceeds of any sale of shares under Regulation 38 after deduction of costs of such sale, shall be applied in or
towards the satisfaction of the debt or liability in respect whereof the lien exists so far as the same is presently payable
and the residue, if any, paid to the shareholders or the person, if any, entitled by transmission to the shares so sold.
40.
Certificate of forfeiture.
- A certificate in writing under the hands of any Director, or any other officer of the Corporation duly authorised in this
behalf, that the call in respect of a share was made and that the forfeiture of the shares was made by a resolution of the
Board to that effect, shall be conclusive evidence of the fact stated therein as against all persons entitled to such shares.
41.
Title of purchaser and allottee of forfeited share.
- The Corporation may receive the Consideration, if any, given for the share on any sale, reallotment or other disposition
thereof and the person to whom such share is sold, reallotted or disposed of may be registered as the holder of the
share and shall not be bound to see to the application of the consideration, if any, nor shall his title to the share be
affected by any irregularity or invalidity in the proceedings in reference to the forfeiture, sale, reallotment or other
disposal of the share and the remedy of any person aggrieved by the sale shall be in damages only and against the
Corporation exclusively.
42.
Shareholder ceasing to be qualified for registration.
- (i) It shall be the duty of any person registered as a shareholder, forthwith upon ceasing to be qualified to be so
registered, to give intimation thereof to the Board.
(ii)
The Board may, at any time, cause such enquiry to be made as it may consider necessary for ascertaining whether any
person registered as a shareholder has ceased to be so qualified and upon being satisfied that any such person has
ceased to be so qualified, it shall inform him that he is not entitled to be a shareholder of the Corporation. He will not be
further entitled to the payment of any dividend on any such shares nor to exercise any of the rights of a shareholder
otherwise than for the purpose of the sale of such shares, and the corporation shall make an entry in the share register
to that effect.
(iii)
If the Board shall ascertain that a person who is not qualified to be a shareholder of the Corporation is registered, by
inadvertence or otherwise, as a shareholder of the Corporation, it shall inform the shareholder that such shareholder is
not entitled to the payment of any dividend on any share nor to exercise any of the rights of a shareholder otherwise
than for the purpose of the sale of such shares, and shall make an entry in the share register to that effect.
(iv)
A determination of the Board under this Regulation as to whether a person is qualified to be shareholder or not shall be
conclusive.
43.
Service of notice or document to share holders .
- (i).The Corporation may serve a notice or a document on any shareholder either personally, or by post at his registered
address or if he has no registered address in India, at the address, if any, within India supplied by him to the Corporation
Page 9/34
----- PAGE 10 -----
Andhra Pradesh State Financial Corporation General Regulations, 2004
for the giving of notice to him.
Provided that where a shareholder has intimated to the Corporation in advance that documents should be sent to him
under a Certificate of Posting or by Regd.Post or by Courier with or without acknowledgment due, and has deposited
with the Corporation a sum sufficient to defray the expenses of doing so, service of the document or notice shall not be
deemed to be effected unless it is sent in the manner intimated by the shareholder, and unless the contrary is proved,
such service shall be deemed to have been effected in the case of a notice of a meeting at the expiration of forty eight
hours after the letter containing the same is posted, and in any other case, at the time at which the letter would have
been delivered in the ordinary course of post.
(ii)
A notice or a document advertised in a newspaper widely circulated in Andhra Pradesh shall be deemed to be duly
served on the day on which the advertisement appears, on every shareholder of the Corporation who has no registered
address in India and has not supplied to the Corporation an address within India for giving of notices to him.
(iii)
A notice or a document may be served by the Corporation on the joint holders of a share by serving it on the joint holder
named first in the register in respect of the share.
(iv)
A Notice or a document may be served by the Corporation on the persons entitled to a share upon death or in
consequence of the insolvency of a shareholder by sending it through post in a prepaid letter addressed to them by
name, or by the title of representatives of the deceased, or assignees of the insolvent, or by any like description, at the
address, if any, in India supplied for the purpose by the persons claiming to the so entitled, or until such an address has
been so supplied, by serving the document in any manner in which it might have been served if the death or insolvency
had not occurred.
(v)
The signature to any notice to be given by the Corporation may be written or printed or be affixed in any other manner.
Chapter III
Meetings of Shareholders or Any Class of Shareholders
44.
Chairman of Meeting - In chapter III and IV.
- (i) unless the context does not permit, the reference to "general meeting" shall include a reference to a meeting of a
class of shareholders, and
(ii)
the word "Chairman" means the "Chairman" of a meeting under Regulation 50.
45.
Annual General Meeting.
- The Annual General Meeting of the Corporation shall be held at the place where the Head Office of the Corporation is
situated, or if so directed by the Board at any other place within the State where there is an office of the Corporation.
Each Annual General Meeting shall be held within four months from the date on which the annual accounts of the
Corporation are closed or within such period as may be specified in the Act from time to time. Without prejudice to the
aforesaid provision, the date and time of the Annual General Meeting shall be fixed by the Board and such a meeting
shall be convened under the direction of the Board by the Managing Director or any other officer of the Corporation
authorized by the Board in this behalf.
46.
General Meetings (other than Annual General Meeting).
- (i) The Board may convene a general meeting at such time and place as may be decided by the Board.
(ii)
The Board may determine the business to be transacted in such General Meetings including appointment of auditors.
(iii)
The Board shall convene a general meeting if a requisition for such a meeting has been received from the share holders
carrying in aggregate not less than 10% of the total voting rights of all the share holders or not less than 5 share holders
not being share holders referred in clauses (a), (b) and (c) of Sub Section (3) of Section 4 of the Act, not later than 3
months from the receipt of the requisition.
Page 10/34
----- PAGE 11 -----
Andhra Pradesh State Financial Corporation General Regulations, 2004
(iv)
The requisition referred to in clause (ii) shall state the purpose for which the General Meeting is required to be convened
but may consist of several documents in like form each signed by one or more of the requisitionists.
(v)
Where two or more persons hold any shares jointly a requisition or a notice calling a meeting, signed by one or some of
them shall for the purposes of this regulation have the same force and effect as if it had been signed by all of them.
(vi)
The time, date and place of the General Meetings shall be decided by the Board
(vii)
If the Board does not convene the meeting as required by clause (iii) within the period of 3 months as stipulated, the
meeting may be called by the requisitionist themselves within next 3 months. Provided that nothing in the sub-regulation
shall be deemed to prevent a meeting duly commenced before the expiry of the period of 3 months aforesaid from
adjourning to some day after the expiry of that period.
(viii)
The meeting called under sub clause (i) by the requisitionist shall be called in the same manner, as nearly as possible,
as that in which the other General Meetings are called.
(ix)
Any reasonable expenses incurred by the requisitionists in calling a meeting under sub clause (v) shall be reimbursed to
the requisitionists by the Corporation.
47.
Notice convening a General Meeting.
- (i) A notice convening a General Meeting signed by the Managing Director, or the Secretary of the Corporation, shall
be sent to every registered shareholder or every shareholder of the class to which the meeting relates at his address, if
any, in India and published atleast twenty one clear days before the meeting in Newspaper except in the case of the first
Annual General Meeting in which case the period of notice may be seven days.
(ii)
Every such notice shall state the time, date and place of such meeting, and also the business that shall be transacted at
that meeting.
48.
Business at General Meetings.
- At the Annual General Meeting, the following business shall be transacted namely:-
(a)
To discuss and if deemed fit, to adopt the annual accounts of the Corporation including the Profit & Loss Account and
the Balance Sheet for the year ending the 31st March of the financial year to which the meeting relates, together with a
report by the Board on the working of the Corporation throughout the year, the auditor's report(s) on the said Balance
Sheet and accounts & proposals, if any, for declaration of dividend and capitalisation of reserves;
(b)
To discuss any other matter to be transacted at the Annual General Meeting in terms of sub-section (3) of Section 36 of
the Act.
(c)
No business shall be transacted, or any matter discussed, other than that mentioned in the notice for the meeting,
except with the consent of the Chairman or unless not less than two weeks' notice has been given of the same by the
State Government, or the Small Industries Bank or atleast five share holders or a class of the shareholders as the case
may be. Such notice shall take the form of a definite resolution to be put up to the meeting.
49.
Quorum at General Meetings.
- (i) No business shall be transacted at any meeting of the shareholders, or a class of shareholders, whether it is the
Annual General Meeting or any other general meeting, unless a quorum of atleast five shareholders entitled to vote at
such meeting in person or by proxy or by duly authorised representative is present at the commencement of such
business.
(ii)
Page 11/34
----- PAGE 12 -----
Andhra Pradesh State Financial Corporation General Regulations, 2004
If within fifteen minutes from the time appointed for the meeting a quorum is not present, in the case of meeting called by
the requisition of shareholders other than the State Government or the Small Industries Bank, the Chairman may
dissolve the meeting.
(iii)
In other case the meeting shall stand adjourned to the same day in the next week at the same time and place, or such
other day and such other time and place as the Chairman of the meeting may determine. If at the adjourned meeting, a
quorum is not present within 30 minutes from the time appointed for holding the meeting, the share holders who are
present in person or by proxy or by duly authorized representative at such adjourned meeting shall be quorum and may
transact the business for which the meeting was called.
Provided that no Annual General Meeting shall be adjourned to a date later than four months, after the 31st March and if
adjournment of the meeting to the same day in the following week would have this effect, the Annual General Meeting
shall not be adjourned but the business of the meeting shall be commenced either as soon within one hour from the time
appointed for the meeting as a quorum may be present, or immediately after expiry of one hour from that time and those
shareholders who are present in person or by proxy or by duly authorised representative at such time shall form a
quorum.
50.
Chairman of General Meetings.
- (i) The Chairman of the Board or, in his absence, the Managing Director or a Director authorized by the Chairman in
writing in this behalf shall be the Chairman and in the event of Chairman of the Board being not nominated or in default
of such authorization as aforesaid or in the absence of the Managing Director so authorized, the meeting may elect any
other Director present to be the Chairman of the meeting.
(ii)
The Chairman shall regulate the procedure at all general meetings, and in particular, shall have full power to decide the
order in which shareholders may address the meeting, to fix a time limit for speeches, to apply the closure when in his
opinion any matter has been sufficiently discussed and to adjourn the meeting.
51.
Persons entitled to attend General meeting.
- (i) All directors and all shareholders of the Corporation and the Secretary of the Corporation and such other officers as
the Managing Director may decide shall subject to the provisions of sub-regulation (ii), be entitled to attend general
meeting.
Provided that if a General Meeting relates to a class of share holders, only the shareholders of that class shall be
entitled to attend that meeting.
(ii)
A share holder being one of the parties mentioned in clauses (c) or (d) of sub-section (3) of section 4 of the Act ,
attending a general meeting shall for the purpose of identification and to determine his voting rights, be required to sign
and deliver to the Corporation a form containing the particulars relating to:
(a)
his full name, folio number and registered address
(b)
the distinctive numbers of his shares
(c)
the class of share holders to which he belongs
(d)
whether he is entitled to vote and the number of votes to which he is entitled in person or by proxy or as a duly
authorised representative.
52.
Voting at General Meetings.
- (i) At any general meeting, a resolution put to the vote of the meeting shall, unless a poll is demanded, be decided on a
show of hands.
(ii)
Save as otherwise provided in the Act, every matter submitted to a general meeting shall be decided by a majority of
Page 12/34
----- PAGE 13 -----
Andhra Pradesh State Financial Corporation General Regulations, 2004
votes.
(iii)
Unless a poll is demanded under clause (i), a declaration by the Chairman of the meeting that a resolution on show of
hands has or has not been carried, either unanimously or by a particular majority, and an entry to that effect in the books
containing the minutes of the proceedings, shall be a conclusive evidence of the fact, without proof of the number or
proportion of the votes cast in favour of or against such resolution.
(iv)
Before or on the declaration of the result of the voting on any resolution on a show of hands, a poll may be ordered to be
taken by the chairman of the meeting of his own motion, or shall be ordered to be taken by him on a demand made in
that behalf by any shareholder or shareholders present in person or by proxy or by duly authorised representative and
holding shares in the Corporation which confer a power to vote on the resolution by at least five share holders.
(v)
The demand for a poll may be withdrawn at any time by the person or persons who made the demand.
(vi)
A poll demanded on a question of adjournment or election of Chairman of the meeting shall be taken forthwith.
(vii)
A poll demanded on any question other than those under sub-Regulation
(v)
above shall be taken at such place and time but not later than forty-eight hours from the time when the demand was
made, as the Chairman may direct. The poll may be either by open voting or ballot as the Chairman may direct and the
result of the poll shall be deemed to be the resolution of the meeting at which the poll was demanded. At such poll a
vote shall be given by a shareholder entitled to vote either personally or by proxy or by duly authorised representative
and the shareholders shall exercise the voting rights in accordance with the Regulations made in that behalf.
(viii)
The decision of the Chairman, as to the qualification of any person to vote, and also in the case of a poll, as to the
number of votes any person is competent to exercise, shall be final.
53.
Minutes of General Meetings.
- (i) The Corporation shall cause the minutes of all proceedings of general meetings to be maintained in the books kept
for the purpose which may be in the form of binders containing loose leaves.
(ii)
Any such minutes, if purporting to be signed by the Chairman of the meeting at which the proceedings took place or by
the Chairman of the next succeeding meeting, shall be evidence of such proceedings concluded thereat.
(iii)
Until the contrary is proved, every general meeting in respect of the proceedings whereof minutes have been so
recorded shall be deemed to have been duly called and held, and all proceedings stated to have taken place thereat, to
have duly taken place.
Chapter-IV Voting
54.
Definition.
- In these Regulations 'Company' means a body corporate either incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956 or any
other law for the time being in force and unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context, includes the Small
Industries Bank, LIC, other insurance companies owned or controlled by Central Government or by State Government, a
Public Sector Bank, a Co-operative Bank, a Co-operative Society, a Society registered under the Societies Registration
Act, 1860 (21 of 1860) and other institutions.
55.
Shareholders entitled to vote and their voting rights.
(1)
Subject to the provisions of sections 4F and 10(e) of the Act and clause (2) at a general meeting, each shareholder who
has been registered as a shareholder shall have on poll, a voting right in proportion to his or its share of the paid up
equity capital of the Corporation;
Page 13/34
----- PAGE 14 -----
Andhra Pradesh State Financial Corporation General Regulations, 2004
(2)
In the case of election of a Director at general meeting, only the shareholders of the class whom the Director to be so
elected represents shall be entitled to vote, and in the case of appointment of the auditor, all the parties mentioned in
clauses(c) and (d) of sub-section (3) of Section 4 of the Act who are shareholders of the Corporation, shall be entitled to
vote.
(3)
Every shareholder entitled to vote as aforesaid who being an individual is present in person or by proxy or being the
State Government or a company is present by a duly authorised representative or by proxy shall have one vote, on a
show of hands and in the case of poll, shall have voting right in proportion to his or its share of the paid up equity capital
of the Corporation subject to the restrictions as may be prescribed in the Act from time to time.
56.
Voting by Government.
- (i) The State Government and institutions covered under clauses (b) and (c) of sub-section (3) of section 4 of the Act
may, by an order in writing, authorise any of its officers or a Director of the Corporation to act as its representative at any
general meeting of the Corporation and the person so authorised shall be entitled to exercise the same powers on
behalf of the State Government, the said institutions as if he were an individual shareholder of the Corporation. The
authorisation so given may be in favour of two or more persons as alternate representatives and in that case, any one of
such persons may act as the duly authorised representative of the Government. The person so authorised shall not be
deemed to be a proxy.
(ii)
A copy of any order made under sub-Regulation(i) shall be deposited at the Head Office of the Corporation before the
time fixed for the meeting.
(iii)
An order made under sub-Regulation (i) may subsequently be revoked by the State Government and institutions
covered under Clause (b) and (c) of sub section (3) of section 4 of the Act by depositing a notice of revocation at the
Head Office of the Corporation before the time fixed for the meeting, and the due revocation of an order shall, in no way
prohibit the issue of another order by the State Government and institutions covered under Clause (b) and (c) of sub
section (3) of Section 4 of the Act and the deposit of a copy thereof at the Head Office of the Corporation within the time
specified in clause (ii).
57.
Voting by duly authorised representative.
- (i) A shareholder, being a company, may by a resolution of its Board of Directors or other Governing Body authorise
any of its officials or any other person to act as its representative at any meeting of the Corporation and the person so
authorised shall be entitled to exercise the same powers on behalf of the company which he represents, as if he were an
individual shareholder of the Corporation. The authorisation so given may be in favour of two or more persons as
alternate representatives and in that case any one of such persons may act as the duly authorised representative of the
company. A person acting in pursuance of an authorisation given under this sub-Regulation shall not be deemed to be a
proxy.
(ii)
No person may attend or vote any meeting of the Corporation as a duly authorised representative of a company unless
a copy of the resolution appointing him as a duly authorised representative certified to be a true copy by the Chairman of
the meeting at which it was passed or by an authorised official/Director of the company shall have been deposited at the
Head Office of the Corporation not less than 48 hours before the date fixed for the meeting. An appointment of a duly
authorised representative shall, after the deposit of a certified copy of the resolution as aforesaid, be irrevocable for
which it is made and shall revoke any proxy previously deposited for such meeting by the company.
(iii)
No person may be appointed a duly authorised representative or a proxy who is an officer or an employee of the
Corporation.
(iv)
Nothing contained in this Regulation shall apply to the State Government and the State Government may appoint such
persons as it thinks fit as provided in Regulation 56 to act as its representative at any general meeting of the
Page 14/34
----- PAGE 15 -----
Andhra Pradesh State Financial Corporation General Regulations, 2004
Corporation. A person so appointed shall for the purpose of the meeting be deemed to be the shareholder of the
Corporation.
58.
Voting by duly authorised representative precludes voting by proxy.
- No shareholder being a company shall vote by proxy so long as a resolution referred to in Regulation 57 authorising
any person to act as its duly authorised representative at any general meeting, shall be in force.
59.
Proxies.
- (i) Any shareholder of the Corporation entitled to attend and vote at a general meeting shall be entitled to appoint
another person (whether a shareholder or not) as his proxy to attend and vote instead of himself; but a proxy so
appointed shall not have any right to speak at the meeting.
(ii)
No instrument of proxy shall be valid unless in the case of an individual shareholder it is signed by him or by his attorney
duly authorised in writing, or in the case of joint holders, it is signed by the shareholder first named in the register or his
attorney duly authorised in writing or in the case of a company it is executed under its common seal, if any, or signed by
its attorney duly authorised in writing.
Provided that an instrument of proxy shall be sufficiently signed by any shareholder, who is for any reason, unable to
write his name, if his thumb impression affixed thereto is attested by a Judge, Magistrate, Registrar or Sub-Registrar of
Assurances, Government Gazetted Officer or an Officer of a Nationalised Bank or of the Corporation of the rank of
Manager and above.
(iii)
No proxy shall be valid unless it is made out specifically for the purpose of voting at the meeting at which it is to be used.
(iv)
No proxy shall be valid unless it is duly stamped and unless it, together with the power of attorney or other authority, if
any, under which it is signed, or a copy of the power of authority certified by a Notary Public or a Magistrate, is deposited
with the Head Office of the Corporation not less than 48 hours before the time fixed for the meeting or adjourned
meeting or, in the case of poll, not less than 24 hours before the time fixed for the purpose of the poll.
(v)
No instrument of proxy shall be valid unless it is in the following form and date:
A.P. State Financial Corporation
I/We ............ of .............being a/the shareholder(s) of the Andhra Pradesh State Financial Corporation holding Share
Nos ............ hereby appoint ............ of ...........(or failing him ............ of ............) as my/our proxy to vote for me/us and
on my/us and on my/our behalf at a meeting of the shareholders of the Corporation to be held at ............. on the ...... day
of ........ and at any adjournment thereof.
At witness I/we have affixed my/our hand(s) this day of Signed by the said
(vi)
An instrument of proxy so deposited shall be irrevocable
(a)
unless on or before the last day for the deposit of proxies there shall have been deposited at Head Office of the
Corporation a notice in writing under the hand or common seal of the grantor specifically stating
(i)
The name of the person in whose favor the instrument was granted and
(ii)
That such instrument is revoked: In the case of instrument of proxy granted in favor of two or more grantees in the
alternative it shall not be necessary to mention in the notice of revocation the name of the second or alternative grantee
provided that the notice is otherwise sufficient to identify beyond doubt the instrument of proxy which it is intended to
revoke or
(b)
unless the same is deemed to be invalid under any of clauses (i) to (iv).
(vii)
If two or more instruments of proxy in respect of the same shares shall be deposited and if on or before the last day for
Page 15/34
----- PAGE 16 -----
Andhra Pradesh State Financial Corporation General Regulations, 2004
deposit of proxies all but one of such instruments of proxy shall not have been duly revoked in accordance with the
procedure prescribed in clause(vi), all such instruments of proxy shall be deemed invalid.
(viii)
The due revocation of an instrument of proxy shall in no way prohibit the deposit of another valid instruments of proxy
within the time limited by clause(iii) hereof.
(ix)
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Regulation, the grantor of an instrument of proxy which has become
irrevocable under this Regulation shall not be entitled to vote in person at the meeting to which such instrument relates.
60.
Election Disputes.
- (i) If any doubt or dispute shall arise as to the qualification or disqualification of a person deemed or declared to be
elected or otherwise as to the validity of the election of a Director, any person interested, being a candidate or
shareholder entitled to vote at such election, may, within seven days of the date of the declaration of the result of such
election, give an intimation in writing thereof to the Chairman of the Board and shall in so doing give full particulars of the
ground upon which he doubts or disputes the validity of such election.
(ii)
On receipt of an intimation under clause (i), the Chairman shall forthwith refer such doubt or dispute for the decision of a
Committee consisting of himself and any two of the Directors nominated under clauses(b) and (c) of section 10 of the
Act. The Committee shall make such enquiry as it deems necessary and if it finds that the election was a valid election,
it shall confirm the declared result of the election, or, if it finds that the election was not a valid election, it shall, within 30
days of the commencement of the enquiry, make such order and give such directions including the holding of a fresh
election as shall in the circumstances appear just to the Committee.
(iii)
Any order and direction of the Committee made in pursuance of this Regulation shall be conclusive.
Chapter V
Special Provisions Regarding the Nominations Or Election Of Directors
61.
Issue of Notice of Election.
- Where at any general meeting an election of any Directors is to be held, notice thereof shall be included in the notice
convening the meeting. Every such notice shall also specify the number of Directors to be elected and the particular
vacancies in respect of which the election is to be held.
62.
List of Shareholders.
- (i) For the purpose of election of Directors mentioned in clause(e) of section 10, of the Act, a separate list shall be
prepared of the shareholders mentioned in clause (d) of sub-section (3) of section 4 of the Act.
(ii)
Such a list shall contain the names of the shareholders, their registered addresses in India, the number and
distinguishing numbers of shares held by them with the dates on which the shares were registered and the number of
votes to which they will be entitled on the date fixed for the election and copies of such list shall be available for
purchase atleast three weeks before the date fixed for the election at a price per copy to be decided by the Managing
Director, on application at the Head Office of the Corporation.
63.
Proposal of Candidates for Directorship.
- (i) No candidate for election as a Director of the Board shall be validly proposed unless:
(a)
he is, on the last date for receipt of proposals, not disqualified to be a Director under section 12 of the Act and who has
not been removed earlier under section 13 of the Act;
(b)
he is proposed by or on behalf of at least two shareholders entitled to elect directors under clause (e) of section 10 of
the Act;.
(c)
Page 16/34
----- PAGE 17 -----
Andhra Pradesh State Financial Corporation General Regulations, 2004
the proposal is in writing signed by the shareholders or by their duly constituted attorneys, provided that a proposal by a
shareholder who is a body Corporate may be made by a resolution of the Directors of the said body corporate and
where it is so made, a copy of the resolution certified to be a true copy by the Chairman of the meeting at which it was
passed or by the Secretary, or the Chief/Vice Chief, Executive Officer of that body corporate shall be despatched to the
Head Office of the Corporation and such copy shall be deemed to be a proposal on behalf of such body corporate;
(d)
the proposal contains a declaration signed by the candidate before a Judge, Magistrate, Registrar or Sub-Registrar of
Assurances, or other Government Gazetted Officer or an officer of Nationalised Bank or of the Corporation not below the
rank of Manager, that he accepts the proposal and is willing to stand for election, and that he is not disqualified for
election under Section 12 or earlier removed under section 13 of the Act..
(ii)
No proposal shall be valid unless it is complete in all respects and received in the Head Office of the Corporation on a
working day not less than 14 clear days before the date fixed for the election. If the last day of receipt of the proposal as
aforesaid is not a working day the proposal shall be delivered at least on the last working day prior to the said last day
and to that extent the time limit of 14 days shall stands reduced. In such an eventuality the last day of the receipt of
proposal shall be specifically mentioned in the notice convening the General Meeting.
64.
Scrutiny of proposals and publication of list of candidates for Directorship.
- (i) The Managing Director shall scrutinise the proposals on the first working day following the last date fixed for the
receipt of proposals. He shall after such enquiry, if any, as he thinks necessary, satisfy himself in regard to the
provisions of Regulation 62 and shall accept or reject the proposal for nomination of each candidate accordingly, and, in
the case of rejection, shall briefly record his reasons for so doing. The decision of the Managing Director that a proposal
is valid or invalid shall, subject to the result of any reference under Regulation 66, be final. If there is only one valid
proposal for any particular vacancy to be filled by election, the candidate so proposed shall be deemed to be elected
forthwith and his name and address shall be published as so elected. In such an event there shall not be any election at
the meeting convened for the purpose and if the meeting has been called solely for the purpose of the aforesaid
election, it shall stand cancelled.
If the number of valid proposals exceeds one, the Managing Director shall cause to be published the names and
addresses of candidates validly proposed one in English newspaper and one in Telugu newspaper circulating in the
State of Andhra Pradesh.
(ii)
A Director elected to fill an existing vacancy shall be deemed to have assumed office from the date of following that on
which he is, or is deemed to be, elected.
65.
Nomination of Directors.
- (i) The parties mentioned in clause (c) of sub-section (3) of section 4 of the Act shall nominate two directors to
represent them under clause (d) of section 10 of the Act as under:
(a)
Public sector banks are entitled to nominate a director by rotation in the sequence of the share holding arranged in
descending order. The largest share holder will have the right to nominate the first director for a period of 3 years and in
the fourth year, the second largest will have the opportunity and thereafter the third share holder and so on.
(b)
LIC, Insurance Companies and all other institutional shareholders covered under the above clause are entitled to
nominate a director by rotation in the sequence of shareholding arranged in descending order.
(ii.) The Corporation shall make a formal request to the above institutions accordingly as and when a vacancy arises in
the post of the above two Directors.
Chapter VI
66.
Removal of Director from Office under sub-section (2) of section 13 of the Act.
- (i) The shareholder in clause (d) of sub-section (3) of section 4 of the Act may remove any Director elected under
clause (e) of Section 10 before the expiry of his tenure of office, in the following manner:
Page 17/34
----- PAGE 18 -----
Andhra Pradesh State Financial Corporation General Regulations, 2004
(a)
The intimation of the intention to remove a Director shall be given by such shareholders holding not less than 25% in the
aggregate of the total issued equity share capital;
(b)
The shareholders shall have right to withdraw the intimation before a notice for holding general meeting for this purpose
is issued;
(c)
If the intimation is not withdrawn by the shareholders, the Board of Directors shall fix up a date for holding a general
meeting and business to be transacted thereat.
(d)
On receipt of such intimation from the shareholder for removal of a Director, the Managing Director shall cause a
communication to be sent to the Director concerned about the proposed resolution for his removal asking him to make
representation, if any, in the matter, within a period of 21 days from the date of receipt of such communication by him.
(e)
After the communication, as aforesaid is sent to the Director concerned, if the Director concerned makes any
representation with respect thereto, in writing, to the Corporation and request for its notification to members of the
Corporation, Corporation shall, unless the representation is received too late for it do so -
(i)
shall in the notice of the resolution given to the shareholders under clause (d) of the Corporation state the brief facts of
the representation having been made or
(ii)
send a copy of the representation to shareholder under clause (d) of the Corporation and if a copy of the representation
is not sent as aforesaid because they were received too late, the Director may require that a representation shall be
read out at the meeting. The provision aforesaid will not prejudice the right of the Director to be heard orally in the
meeting.
(iii)
The resolution for removal of the Director shall be placed before shareholders under clause (d) in General Meeting for its
decision and the Director concerned if he so wishes shall be given an opportunity to represent his case before the
meeting for such time as the Chairman of the meeting permits.
(f)
The vacancy created by the removal of Director under the above Regulation be filled in by the appointment of another
Director in his place in the meeting at which he is removed provided a special notice of intended appointment has been
given.
(g)
Procedure prescribed under these Regulations for nomination and election of Director shall apply to the election to be
made for filling the vacancy caused by removal of Director.
(i)
The Director so elected shall hold the office until the date up to which his predecessor would have held the office if he
had not been removed as aforesaid;
(ii)
While convening a special general meeting for the above purpose, the Board shall call for proposals for election of
Directors to fill the casual vacancy in the event of resolution for removal of the Director being approved by the requisite
number of shareholders as provided in Section 13(2) of the Act and in that event the provisions of Chapters IV and
Chapter V of these Regulations shall mutatis mutandis apply to the special general meeting to be convened and to the
election to be held as above.
67.
Co-opted Directors.
- Subject to clause (e) of Section 10 of the Act, the Directors co-opted by the Board shall retire in order of co-option on
assumption of charge by the Director or Directors elected by the share holders or after expiry of one year which ever is
earlier. If the co-option of more than one Director is made on the same day, the retirement of such co-opted will be
decided by consensus amongst themselves and in the absence of such consensus, the retirement shall be decided by
Page 18/34
----- PAGE 19 -----
Andhra Pradesh State Financial Corporation General Regulations, 2004
draw of lots by the Chairman of the Meeting of the Board at which the issue comes up for decision. The tenure of the
co-opted Directors shall be similar to the elected or nominated director.
Chapter VII
Meetings of the Board and the Executive Committee
68.
Meetings of the Board.
- (i) A meeting of the Board shall be held atleast once during each quarter and shall be convened by the Managing
Director or in his absence any other Director or Officer of the Corporation duly authorized by the Board in accordance
with the instructions, if any, of the Board.
(ii)
Any three Directors may require the Managing Director to convene a meeting of the Board at any time and the Managing
Director shall, on receipt of the requisition, convene a meeting of the Board giving sufficient notice, provided that the
date of the meeting so convened shall not be later than 21 days from the date of the receipt of the requisition.
(iii)
Meetings of the Board shall be held at the place where the Head Office of the Corporation is situate, or at such other
place within the jurisdiction of the Corporation as the Board may decide.
(iv)
Ordinarily not less than 7 days notice shall be given of each meeting of the Board, and such notice shall be sent to every
director to his usual address in India.
Should it be found necessary to convene an emergency meeting, a notice shall be sent to every director at the usual
address in India sufficiently in advance to enable him to attend.
(v)
No business other than that for which the meeting was convened shall be discussed at a meeting of the Board except
with the consent of the person presiding at the meeting and a majority of the Directors present, unless one clear week's
notice has been given of the same in writing to the Chairman.
(vi)
Quorum for the transaction of business at a meeting of the Board shall be one-third of the total number of persons for
the time being constituting the Board (any fraction contained in that one-third being rounded off as one), or not less than
four Directors, whichever is less.
(vii)
If for any reason, the Chairman of the Board is unable to attend any meeting of the Board, a Director authorised by the
Chairman of the Board in writing shall preside at such meeting, but if the Director so authorised is absent or if no such
authorisation has been made, the Board may elect any of its members present to preside at that meeting.
(viii)
Minutes of meetings of the Board:
(a)
The Corporation shall cause proceedings to be maintained in the books kept for the purpose which may be in the form of
binders containing loose leaves.
(b)
Any such minutes, if signed by the Chairman of the meeting at which the proceedings took place or by the Chairman of
the next succeeding meeting shall be evidence of such proceedings.
(c)
Until the contrary is proved, every Board meeting in respect of the proceedings hereof minutes have been so recorded
shall be deemed to have been duly called and held, and all proceedings taking place thereat, to have duly taken place.
(d)
If for any reason, the minutes of any meeting could not be signed in the manner specified in clause (c) above, such
minutes shall be deemed to be in order if signed by the Managing Director on the authorisation of a meeting of the
Board held thereafter.
69.
Meetings of the Executive Committee.
- (i) The Executive Committee Meetings shall be presided over by the Chairman and shall ordinarily meet once during
Page 19/34
----- PAGE 20 -----
Andhra Pradesh State Financial Corporation General Regulations, 2004
each quarter at the Head Office of the Corporation or at such other place within the jurisdiction of the Corporation as the
Chairman may decide to attend to the business of the Corporation as may be delegated to it by the Board, from time to
time. Sufficient notice shall be given to the members of the Committee to enable them to attend the meeting.
(ii)
The Board may delegate to the Executive Committee powers to transact all the usual business of the Corporation except
such matters as are specifically reserved to the Board under the Act or any Regulations made thereunder.
(iii)
In the exercise of its powers, the Executive Committee shall be bound by such general or special directions as the Board
may give from time to time.
(iv)
Quorum for the transaction of business at a meeting of the Executive Committee shall be one-third of the total strength
of the Executive Committee (any fraction contained in that one-third being rounded off as one) or not less than three
members of the Committee, whichever is less.
(v)
The provisions of the Act and save as otherwise provided in these Regulations, these Regulations shall apply to the
meetings of the Executive Committee as if they were meetings of the Board.
70.
Disclosure of Interest of Director in any Industrial concern.
- (i) Every Director of the Board and every member of the Executive Committee who has any interest in or connection
with an industrial concern in respect of contract or arrangement or proposed contract or arrangement entered into or to
be entered into of the nature specified in sub-section (2) of section 28 of the Act shall disclose the nature of such interest
or connection at a meeting of the Board or the Executive Committee, as the case may be.
(ii)
(a)
In the case of proposed contract or arrangement , the disclosure required to be made by a Director of the Board or
member of the Executive Committee under sub-clause (i) shall be made at the meeting of the Board or the Executive
Committee, as the case may be, at which the question of entering into contract or arrangement is first taken into
consideration, or if the Director or member was not, at the date of that meeting, concerned or interested in the proposed
contract or arrangement, at the first meeting of the board or the Executive Committee, as the case may be, held after he
becomes so concerned or interested.
(b)
In the case of any other contract or arrangement, the required disclosure shall be made at the first meeting of the Board
or the Executive Committee, as the case may be, held after the Director or member becomes concerned or interested in
the contract or arrangement.
(iii)
(a)
For the purpose of clauses (i) and (ii), a general notice given by a Director or a member, to the Board or to the Executive
Committee, as the case may be, to the effect that he is a Director or a member of a specified body corporate or is a
member of a specified firm and is to be regarded as concerned or interested in any contract or arrangement which may
after the date of notice, be entered into with that body corporate or firm, shall be deemed to be a sufficient disclosure of
his concern or interest in relation to any contract or arrangement so made.
(b)
A Director or a member giving a general notice to the Board or the Executive Committee under clause (iii)(a) shall, as
soon as possible, give notice of any change in the particulars contained therein.
(iv)
No such general notice, or no notice of any change therein shall be of effect unless either it is given at a meeting of the
Board or the Executive Committee, as the case may be or the Director or member concerned takes reasonable steps to
secure that it is brought upon and read at the first meeting of the Board or the Executive Committee, as the case may
be, after it is given.
(v)
No Director of the Board and no member of the Executive Committee shall, as a Director or member, as the case may
Page 20/34
----- PAGE 21 -----
Andhra Pradesh State Financial Corporation General Regulations, 2004
be, take any part in the discussion of, or vote on, any contract or arrangement entered into or to be entered into by or on
behalf of the Corporation, if he is in any way, whether directly or indirectly, concerned or interested in such contract or
arrangement, nor shall his presence count for the purpose of forming a quorum at the time of such discussion or vote;
and if he does vote, his vote shall be void;
71.
Fee for Directors' Meetings.
- 1. Each Director (other than the Managing Director and an employee of the State Government or any employee of the
Corporation) shall receive fee for attending a meeting of the Board or the Executive Committee or any Committee
constituted by the Board under section 21 of the Act as may be decided by the Board of Directors from time to time.
2. In addition, each Director attending a meeting of the Board or of the Executive Committee shall be reimbursed his
travelling and halting expenses, if any, on such scale, at his option, as he is entitled to in the institution in which he holds
office or on such scale as may be fixed by the Board from time to time and in any other case, at the latter scales.
72.
Appointment of Committees.
- (i) The Board may appoint Committees consisting wholly of Directors or wholly of other persons or partly of Directors
and partly of other persons as it deems fit for the purpose of efficient discharge of the functions of the Corporation.
(ii)
Any Committee constituted under sub- section (3) of section18 or section 21 of the Act shall, in the exercise of the
powers entrusted to it, be bound by such general or special directions as the Board or the Executive Committee may
give from time to time.
(iii)
Meetings of any such Committee may be convened from time to time at the Head Office of the Corporation, or at such
other place within the jurisdiction of the Corporation or at any other place as may be specified in the notice convening
the meeting. Sufficient notice shall be given for such meetings.
(iv)
The Chairman of the Board, if he is elected to be a member of any Committee constituted under section 21 of the Act,
shall be the Chairman of such Committee, otherwise Managing Director or any other member of such a Committee as
may be decided by the Board or the Committee shall be the Chairman of that Committee. If the Chairman of any such
Committee is, for any reason, unable to attend a meeting of the Committee, a person authorised by the said Chairman in
writing shall preside at that meeting. In default of such authorisation or in absence of the person so authorised, the
Committee may elect a Chairman to preside at that meeting.
(v)
Each member of any such Committee, who is not a Director, auditor, officer or other employee of the Corporation who
has already made a declaration under section 40 of the Act shall, before entering upon his duties, be required to sign a
declaration of Fidelity and Secrecy to the effect set out in the form given in the Schedule to the Act.
(vi)
The provisions of the Act and save as otherwise provided in these Regulations, these Regulations shall apply to the
meetings of such Committee formed under Sec.21of the Act as if they were the meetings of the Executive Committee.
73.
Resolution without meeting valid.
- (i) The Managing Director or any Director or Officer of the Corporation duly authorized by the Board can alone circulate
the resolution in writing. The resolution circulated to all the Directors at their usual addresses in India and approved and
signed by a simple majority of the Directors/members, on the Board of the Corporation or where the matter concerns,
the Executive Committee or any other Committee appointed by the Corporation, who are then in India, one of whom
shall be the Chairman of the Board or the Executive Committee or other Committee as the case may be or the
Managing Director shall be valid and effectual and shall be deemed to be the resolution passed by the Board, the
Executive Committee or other Committee, as the case may be. The resolution shall be deemed to have been passed on
the date on which it is concurred and signed by the last signatory to the resolution.
Provided that any resolution passed as aforesaid shall be placed before the next meeting of the Board, Executive
Committee or other Committee, as the case may be, for carrying out modifications, if any.
(ii)
Page 21/34
----- PAGE 22 -----
Andhra Pradesh State Financial Corporation General Regulations, 2004
Nothing in clause (i) shall apply to a resolution in respect of any matter relating to granting of any loan or financial
assistance to any industrial concern under the Act.
Chapter VIII
Manner in Which the Accommodation Granted by the Corporation Will be Secured.
74.
Instruments evidencing the security to be in prescribed Form.
- Instruments evidencing the security to be taken for accommodation given by the Corporation, under sub-section (1) of
section 25 of the Act shall be in the form specified by the Board and no material alteration shall be made in the form as
prescribed without the approval of the Board. The Board may make such variations in the forms as may be found
necessary to suit the requirement of individual cases.
Provided no such instrument shall be open to challenge only on the ground that the said document or any alteration
thereto is not approved by the board.
75.
Instruments evidencing security to contain stipulation for requiring additional security in the event of fall in value of
assets.
- In the instruments evidencing the security taken by the Corporation, there shall be a stipulation that in the event of a
fall occurring in the value of the assets pledged, mortgaged, hypothecated, or assigned to the Corporation, the industrial
concern obtaining accommodation from it may be required to furnish such additional security as may be considered
reasonable by the Executive Committee.
Chapter IX
General Provisions
76.
Board to inform the State Government regarding disqualifications.
- The Board shall forthwith inform the State Government if it comes to the notice of the Board that any Director has
become subject to any disqualification under the Act.
77.
Acts of Directors valid notwithstanding subsequent discovery of disqualifications.
- All acts done at any meeting of the Board or the Executive Committee or an Advisory Committee by any person acting
as Director of the Board or member of the Executive Committee or of an Advisory Committee shall, notwithstanding that
it shall afterwards be discovered that there was some defect in the appointment of such persons or that they or any of
them were disqualified, be as valid as if every such person had been duly appointed and duly qualified.
78.
Delegation of Powers.
- Without prejudice to the powers conferred under the Act, the Board may, if it deems expedient authorise the Executive
Committee or a Committee appointed under sections 18(3), and 21 of the Act or the Managing Director to decide in
respect of any of the matters, whether referred to in these Regulations or not.
79.
Manner and form in which contracts binding on the Corporation may be executed.
- Contracts on behalf of the Corporation may be made as follows:
(a)
Any contract which is by law required to be in writing, may be made on behalf of the Corporation in writing signed by any
person acting under its express authority and may in the same manner be varied or discharged;
(b)
Any contract which would be valid if made by parol only, may be made by parol on behalf of the Corporation by any
person acting under its express authority and may in the same manner be varied or discharged.
80.
Accounts, Receipts and Documents of Corporation by whom to be signed.
- The Managing Director, or such other Officers of the Corporation as the Board or the Executive Committee or any
Committee appointed under sections 18(3), and 21 of the Act or the Managing Director who have been delegated the
necessary powers by the Board in this behalf may, by notification in the Andhra Pradesh Government Gazette, authorise
in this behalf, may sign any contract of any description whatsoever, issue, execute, endorse and transfer promissory
Page 22/34
----- PAGE 23 -----
Andhra Pradesh State Financial Corporation General Regulations, 2004
notes, bonds, stock receipts, stock, debentures, shares, securities and documents of title to goods standing in the name
of , or held by the Corporation and draw, accept and endorse bills of exchange and other instruments in the current and
authorised business of the Corporation and sign all other accounts, receipts and documents connected with such
business.
81.
Plaints, etc., by whom to be signed.
- Plaints, written statements, vakalatnamas, affidavits and all other documents connected with legal proceedings may be
signed and verified on behalf of the Corporation by the Managing Director or any other Officer authorised under
Regulation 80 to sign documents for, and on behalf of the Corporation:
82.
Common Seal of the Corporation.
- (i) The Board shall provide a Common Seal for the purpose of the Corporation and shall have powers from time to time
destroy the same and substitute a new seal in lieu thereof and the Board shall provide for the safe custody of the seal
for the time being.
(ii)
The common seal of the Corporation shall be affixed to the share certificates issued by the Corporation, power of
attorney made in favour of a person and may be used for such other purposes as may be approved by the
Board/Executive Committee.
(iii)
The Common Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to any instrument except pursuant to a resolution of the Board
or the Executive Committee as the case may be and except in the presence of at least two Directors including the
Managing Director, who shall sign their names to the instrument in token of their presence, and such signing shall be
independent of the signing of any person who may sign the instrument as a witness. Unless so signed as aforesaid,
such instrument shall be of no validity.
83.
Issue of Bonds and Debentures.
- (i) The bonds or debentures of the Corporation shall be issued under the signature of the Chairman or Managing
Director and such signature may be printed, engraved or lithographed or impressed by such other mechanical process
as the Board may direct.
(ii)
A signature so printed, engraved, lithographed or otherwise impressed shall be as valid as a signature in the proper
handwriting of the signatory himself.
(iii)
The Corporation may issue and sell the bonds and debentures on such terms & conditions as may be decided by the
Board, for the purpose of increasing its working capital.
(iv)
Depending upon the conditions prevalent in the money market the Board may decide from time to time the manner and
terms of issue and repayment of bonds and debentures by the Corporation with or without the guarantee of the State
Government.
(v)
Such of the bonds and debentures issued by the Financial Corporation as are guaranteed by the State Government as
to the repayment of the principal and payment of interest and receipts issued by it for such of deposits as are
guaranteed by the State Government as to the repayment of principal and payment of interest shall be deemed to be
included among the securities enumerated in section 20 of the Indian Trusts Act, 1882, also to be approved securities
for the purpose of the Insurance Act, 1938 and the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.
(vi)
The form of bonds and debentures:
The bonds and debentures shall be in the form of promissory notes provided the debentures may be with or without
securities.
84.
Efficient conduct of the affairs of the Corporation.
Page 23/34
----- PAGE 24 -----
Andhra Pradesh State Financial Corporation General Regulations, 2004
- The Managing Director may take such necessary steps and actions as may be necessary for efficient conduct of the
affairs of the Financial Corporation, which may also include the adoption of methods of recovery of the other institutions
other than the SFCs for bringing moral pressure on the chronic defaulters and formulate incentive scheme for the
officers and employees of the Corporation for boosting the business of the Corporation.
85.
Service of notice to the Corporation.
- A notice may be served on the Corporation by delivering it to an authorised officer of the Corporation at, or by sending
it by registered post to the Head Office of the Corporation.
86.
Accounts.
- The Board shall cause accounts to be kept of the assets and liabilities, and receipts and expenditure of the
Corporation.
87.
Annual Statements of Accounts.
- The Corporation shall prepare the balance sheet as at 31st March of every year and profit & loss account for the year
ending on that day in the form enclosed to as at Annexure 'C' and Annexure 'D' or in the form as may be specified from
time to time by State Government, Reserve Bank or Small Industries Bank or the Board in consultation with Small
Industries Bank.
88.
Returns.
- The statements and returns to be furnished under sub-section (1) of the section 38 of the Act shall be in such form as
the State Government, the Reserve Bank or the Small Industries Bank may require from time to time.
89.
Dividends.
- (i) Dividends declared shall be paid as soon as may be, but ordinarily not later than 42 days, after the annual accounts
are discussed and adopted at the general meeting.
(ii)
No interest shall be payable by the Corporation on any dividend.
(iii)
Any one of several persons who are registered as joint holders of any share may give effectual receipts for all dividends
in respect of such share.
(iv)
A dividend shall be paid by cheque or warrant drawn on the Corporation's bankers at the place where its Head Office is
situate, and shall be sent to the registered address in India of the shareholder entitled or in the case of joint holders to
the registered address in India of the one whose name stands first on the register in respect of the joint holding, and
every cheque or warrant so sent shall be made payable to the order of the shareholder to whom it is sent. In the event of
dematted shares the dividend amounts may directly be credited to the Bank Account of the shareholder under ECS.
(v)
The Corporation shall not make payment of a dividend to any person not entitled thereto under the Act or these
Regulations but shall retain the same and make payment thereof to the person who next becomes registered in respect
of the shares on which such dividend is payable.
(vi)
No shareholder shall be entitled to receive payment of any dividend in respect of his shares until all amounts due or
owing by him to the Corporation in respect of such shares have been paid.
(vii)
Dividend remaining unpaid or unclaimed for a period of three years from the date of declaration shall be transferred to
the Unclaimed Dividend Reserve Account. In case of any claim in future the same shall be paid from this account.
90.
Dividend for the period ending on the 31st March, 1956.
- Dividend will accrue and be payable for the period ending 31st March, 1956 from the 1st January, 1956 and no
shareholder shall have any right to claim dividend for any period prior to that date.
Page 24/34
----- PAGE 25 -----
Andhra Pradesh State Financial Corporation General Regulations, 2004
91.
Investment of Funds.
- The Corporation may invest its funds in such securities as may be decided by the Board from time to time and as per
the prudential norms and guidelines prescribed by the Board in this behalf.
92.
Nomination in respect of Deposits, Bonds, Shares,Debentures and other Securities.
(a)
(i)
Subject to the provisions of section 41(B)of the Act and the Regulations, a subscriber to the bond, deposits and other
securities, shall to the Corporation a nomination, in the format enclosed as at Annexure'E' conferring on one or more
persons the right to receive the amount that may stand payable to him or her in the event of his/her death accruing
before the amount has become payable, or before the amount having become payable, has been paid. In case of such
nomination, the amount payable on such deposits, bonds or securities, shall on the death of the subscriber/depositor or
holder thereof, vest in, and be payable to, the nominee subject to any right, title or interest of any other person to such
deposits, bonds or securities.
(ii)
If the person thus nominated is at the time of his/her nomination a minor or under legal disability to give a valid receipt or
discharge to the Corporation, the subscriber/depositor/holder shall at the time of such nomination, as aforesaid, of the
another person of full age who is capable of giving a valid receipt or discharge and to whom the amount payable is to be
paid for and on behalf of the person/s, who nominated as aforesaid, so long as he shall be a minor or to be under legal
disability and the receipt of the said person of full age shall during the minority or the legal disability of the person/s so
nominated, as aforesaid, be a good discharge to the Corporation.
(iii)
If a subscriber/depositor/holder nominates more than one person under clause (i), he or she shall specify in the
nomination the amount or share payable to each of the nominees in such manner as to cover the whole of the amount
that may become payable to him or her.
(b)
Any payment by the Corporation in accordance with the above Regulation shall constitute a full discharge to the
Financial Corporation of its liability in respect of such deposits, bonds or securities.
93.
General Provision.
- If any dispute arises as to the interpretation or otherwise of these Regulations, the decision of the Board shall be final.
Call
Annexure A
Shares Transferred
Balance
Unit
Date
Tr.No
Folio
To seen
No. of Shares
Distinctive Numbers
Value
Transferee
No of Shares
Amount
Acctt.
Md.
From To
Occupation
Page 25/34
----- PAGE 26 -----
Andhra Pradesh State Financial Corporation General Regulations, 2004
Address:
Register On:
Shares Acquired
Date
A/L or Tr.No.
Foilo
From Seen
No. of Shares
Distinctive Numbers
Value
Transfer
Instructions
From To
PoA.P. Money Rs. OnA.L. Money Rs.
Andhra Pradesh State Financial Corporation
Hyderabad.
Share Certificate
Certificate
No.
Class ?.............
No. of shares Cl................S.S
?............S.
Share Certificate
{|
No.
Date........................
Class
?.........................................
No of Shares
?........................................
From
To
?.................................
?.................................
?.................................
?.................................
?.................................
?.................................
?.................................
?.................................
?.................................
?.................................
?.................................
?.................................
Names (s)
?.......................................................................................
|
| Andhra
Pradesh State Financial Corporation
Incorporated
Under The State Financial Corporations Act (No. LXIII of 1951)
Page 26/34
----- PAGE 27 -----
Andhra Pradesh State Financial Corporation General Regulations, 2004
Head
Office : 5-9-194, Chirag Ali Lane, Abids, Hyderabad - 500 001
Authorised
Capital Rs. 100,00,00.000
Divided into 1,00,00,000 full Paid
Shares of Rs. 100 each
This
is to certify that.........of............is/are the registered
holder?s of..........fully paid shares of Rupees One
hundred each, numbered from........to........(both inclusion) in
the ANDHRA PRADESH STATE FINANCIAL CORPORATION subject to the
provisions of the State Financial Corporations Act, 1951 and the
Rules and Regulations made thereunder and that the sum of Rupees
One hundred has been paid up in respect of each share.
Given under the Common
Seal of the Corporation
This.............day
?....................................................of..........200
Director Managing
Director
N.B.
No transfer of either the whole or any part of the shares
comprised on this Certificate will be registered by the
Corporation without delivery of this Certificate to the
Corporation.
|-
|
|
|
|-
|
|
|
|-
|
|
|
|-
|
|
|
|-
|
|
|
|-
| Al.No.
T.D.No.
S.L.F. Cl..................
S.S....................... S.4
|
Page 27/34
----- PAGE 28 -----
Andhra Pradesh State Financial Corporation General Regulations, 2004
|
|-
| A.G.M
| Managing Director
|
|
|}
Annexure-C
A
[See Regulation 85]
Balance Sheet As At 31st March____________________________
(Rupees in lakhs)
Schedule Reference
Current
Previous Year Year
Capital And Liabilities:
Share Capital
A
Loan Pending Conversion to Share Capital
B
Reserve Fund and Other Reserved
C
Ters Borrowings
D
Current Liabilities and Provisions
E
Total.............................)
Property and Assets
Cash and Bank Balance
F
Investments
G
Loans and Advances
H
Fixed Assets
I
Current Assets
J
Total.............................)
Accounting policies
Notes on Accounts
Note - The Schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Balance sheet.
B
[See Regulation 85]
Profit and Loss Account for the year ended 31st Marcy_____________________
(Rupees in lakhs)
Schedule Reference
Current Year
Previous Year
Income:
Interest on loans and Advances
Page 28/34
----- PAGE 29 -----
Andhra Pradesh State Financial Corporation General Regulations, 2004
Other Incc ne
K
Total............)
Expenditure:
Interest and Other Financial Expenses
L
Interest Tax
Personnel Expenses
M
Administrative Expenses
N
Depreciation
Bad Debts written off
Total............)
Profit for the year
Note. - The Schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Profit and Loss Account.
B
Loan Pending Conversion To Share Capital
(Rupees in lakhs)
Current Year
Previous year
Loan Pending Conversion to share Capital Loan
Pending Conversion to Special Share Capital
Total.........)
C
Reserve Fund And Other Reserves
(Rupees in lakhs)
Current Year
Previous Year
(a) Reserve Fund under Section 35 of STC?s
Act, 1951)
(b) Special Reserve Fund U/s 350
(c) Investment Reserve as per last Balance
Sheet
Add: Transfer from Profit and Loss
Account____________________________
(d) Reserve for Bad and Doubtful Debts:
(e) Profit and Loss appropriation Account
[(See Schedule C(i))
Total...........)
Forming Of The Balance Sheet
Schedule-A
Share Capital
(Rupees in lakhs)
Current Year
Previous Year
Authorised:
Share of Rs. 100 each
Issued, Subscribed and Paid Up:
(a) Shares of Rs. 100/-each fully paid carrying
3.5% P.M.
Page 29/34
----- PAGE 30 -----
Andhra Pradesh State Financial Corporation General Regulations, 2004
(b) Share of Rs. 100 each fully paid carrying
7.5% P.M.
(c) Shares of Rs. 100/- each fully paid (Issued
under Section 45(1) of the SFC?s Act as Special Class of
Shares)
Total............)
E
Current Liabilities And Provisions
(Rupees in lakhs)
Current Year
Previous Year
(A) Current Liabilities
1. Unclaimed Dividents
2. Earnest Money Deposit contractors
3. Earnest Money Deposit (Sec. 23)
4. Down payment (Inter-se Trl./Sec 23)
5. Party's share of intial capital
6. Sundry Deposits
7. Dividend Subvention Fund
8. Share Capital Assistance
9. Book overdraft
10. Other Liabilities-
(B) Provisions
Provisions for Interst-tax
Total............)
D
Team Borrowings:
(Rupees in lakhs)
Current Year
Previous Year
1. Bonds:
(Guaranteed by State Government under Section
7(1) of the SFC's Act.
2. Refinance in terms of Section 7(4) of
the SFCs Act, 1951.
- Industrial Development Bank of India
-Small Industries Development Bank of India.
3. Loan from the State Government to
extend assistance to riot victims
4. Fixed deposits.
5. Development loan for computerisation from
SIDBI
Total...............)
II
Loans and Advances
(Rupees in lakhs)
Current Year
Previous Year
Classification Of Loans And Advances On
Purpose-Wise Basis.
(a) General Loans
Page 30/34
----- PAGE 31 -----
Andhra Pradesh State Financial Corporation General Regulations, 2004
(b) Bridge Loans
(c) Transport Loans
(d) Mini Loans
(e) Composite Loans
(f) Fisheries Loans
(g) Special Relief Fund for Cyclone Relief
(h) Equipment Refinance Scheme
(i) Special Capital Soft Loans
(j) Financial Assistance to Good Entrepreneurs
(k) Short Term Loans
(l) Discounting of Bills
Total............)
J
Current Assets
(Rupees in lakhs)
Current Year
Previous Year
Stock of Stationery
Interest Suspense
Commitment Charges Suspense
Other Expenses - Loanee Accounts
Seed Capital Assistance
Income tax paid
Interest tax paid
Deposits with Banks
Advances to Staff
Deposits
Other Assets
Total...........)
F
Current Assets
(Rupees in lakhs)
Current Year
Previous Year
(a) Cash and Cheques on hand
(b) Remittances in Transit
(c) Balances with Banks
(i) Reserve Bank of India
(ii) SBI and other
Total..............................)
G
Investments (At Cost)
(Rupees in lakhs)
Current Year
Previous Year
(i) Shares acquired pursual to under writting
agreements under Section 25(l)(c) of the SFC?s Act, 1951
(a) Irredeable Preference Shares fully paid
(b) Equity Shares fully paid
(ii) Investment of Special Share Capital under
Section 4-A(I) of the SFC?s Act, 1951 in redeable
Page 31/34
----- PAGE 32 -----
Andhra Pradesh State Financial Corporation General Regulations, 2004
Preference Shares fully paid up.
Total.........)
K
Other Income
(Rupees in lakhs)
Current Year
Previous Year
Continent Charges
Service Charges
Upfront Fee
Sale of Application Forms
Dividend on Shares
Interest on Bank Deposits
Interest on staff advances
Miscellaneous Income
Profit on sale of assets
Previous on pre-nature closure Accounts.
Total..................)
L
Invest and Others Financial Expenses
(Rupees In Lakhs)
Current Year
Previous Year
Interest on Borrowings from IDB1
Interest on Borrowings from SIDBI
Interest on Bonds
Interest on NDI Borrowings
Interest on borrowing from RBI and Banks
Interest on Loan Pending Conversion to Share
Capital
Interest to State Govt, on Loan to reit victims
Interest on Fixed Deposits
Interest on other deposits
Guarantee Commission to State Government
Service charges to IDBI (on Seed Capital)
Service Charges to SIDBI (on Seed Capital)
Upfront fee to IDBI
Upfront fee to SIDBI
Brokerage on Bonds and Fixed Deposits
Starp duty on Bonds Dividend Tax
Total..........)
I
Fixed Assets
(Rupees in lakhs)
Cost
Depreciation
Net
SI. No.
Particulars
Gross Block As at
Additions During the Year
Page 32/34
----- PAGE 33 -----
Andhra Pradesh State Financial Corporation General Regulations, 2004
Deductions Adjustments  During the Year
Gross Upto Block As at
Adjustment During the Year
For the  Upto Year
Ast at
As at
Rs.
Rs.
Rs.
Rs.
Rs.
Rs.
Rs.
Rs.
Rs.
1.
Land (Freehold)
2.
Buildings
3.
Lifts, Computer Equipment, Motor Vehicles
4.
Furniture and Fixtures, Electrical
installations and Office Equipment
Total.
Buildings under Construction.
Total.
________________________
M
Personnel Expenses
(Rupees in lakhs)
Current Year
Previous Year
Salaries and Allowances
(a) Managing Director
(b) Staff and Officers
Medical Expenses
(a) Managing Director
(b) Staff and Officers Contribution of Provident Fund
Contribution to Pension
Gratuity (including contribution to Group
Gratuity) Leave Travel Concession Staff Training Expenses Staff
Welfare Expenses
Total...........)
N
Administrative Expenses
(Rupees in lakhs)
Current Year
Previous Year
Travelling Expenses:
(i) Managing Director
Page 33/34
----- PAGE 34 -----
Andhra Pradesh State Financial Corporation General Regulations, 2004
(ii) Directors
(iii) Staff and Officers Sitting Fees to Directors Rent, taxes
and Insurance Postage, Telegrams and Telephones Motor Car
Expenses
Printing and Stationery Publicity and
Advertisement Books, Periodicals and Newspapers Repairs,
Renewals and Maintenance Bank charges and Commission
Remuneration to Auditors:
(i) Audit Fees
(ii) Tax Audit Fee
(iii) Incidental Expenses Legal Charges
Professional and Consultancy charges Power
charges
Board Meetings/AGM expenses Membership
fees/Subscriptions for Institutions Other Expenses
Total.............................)
Nomination Form
I/We ..................................................................... (Name(s) and Address(es) of the shares/bonds/deposits/debenture
Holder(s) Nominate the following person to whom in the event of my/our/minor's death the amounts payable on account
of Bonds/Deposits/Debentures, particulars whereof are given below, may be returned by Andhra Pradesh State
Financial Corporation 5-9-194, Chirag Ali Lane, Hyderabad.
Details of Deposit/Bond/Debenture
Deposit/Bond/Debenture
Distinguishing Number
Additional Details, if any
Nominee
Name and Address (Only one Nominee)
Relationship with Depositor, if any
Age
If nominee is a minor, Give Date of Birth
*As the nominee is a minor on this date, I/We appoint..........................................................
(Name, Address and of the guardian) to receive the amount of the deposit in the account on behalf of the nominee in the
event of my/our/minor's death during the minority of the nominee.
?...................................................
?...................................................
Signature (Name and Address of witness)
Signature(s) of Depositor(s)
Place:Date:
Note:Where deposit is made in the name
of a minor, the nomination should be signed by a person lawfully
entitled to act on behalf the minor.
* Strike out if nominee is not a minor:
* Nomination without witness is not valid and cannot be registered.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 34/34