
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh Colleges of Physical Education Admissions through Common Entrance Test Rule...
Andhra Pradesh Colleges of Physical Education Admissions through
Common Entrance Test Rules 2003
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/68883676/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh Colleges of Physical Education Admissions through Common Entrance Test Rules 2003
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh Colleges of Physical Education Admissions through Common Entrance Test Rules 2003
Rule
ANDHRA-PRADESH-COLLEGES-OF-PHYSICAL-EDUCATION-ADMISSIONS-THROUGH-COMMON-ENTRANCE-TE
ST-RULES-2003 of 2003
Published on 12 February 2004
Commenced on 12 February 2004
[This is the version of this document from 12 February 2004.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Andhra Pradesh Colleges of Physical Education Admissions through Common Entrance Test Rules 2003
Published vide Notification No. G.O. Ms. No. 24, Education (TRG. 3), dated 12th February, 2004
Last Updated 14th August, 2019
R.S. to Part I (Extraordinary) A.P. Gazette dated 19-02-2004.
G.O. Ms. No. 24. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 and 15 of the Andhra Pradesh Educational
Institutions (Regulation of Admission and Prohibition of Capitation Fee) Act, 1983, Andhra Pradesh Act
No. 5 of 1983
Page 1/11
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh Colleges of Physical Education Admissions through Common Entrance Test Rule...
by the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution of India, and in superssion of all the Rules inforce on the subject, the
Governor of Andhra Pradesh hereby makes the following rules for Regulation of Admissions into B.P.Ed.,/ UGDPED.,
courses offered in Colleges of Physical Education in the State of Andhra Pradesh through Common Entrance Test Rules
- 2003 issued in G.O.Ms.No. 39, Education (Trg. 2) Department, dated 27-3-2003: -
1.
Short title and applicability.
(1)
These rules may be called the Andhra Pradesh Colleges of Physical Education Admissions through Common Entrance
Test Rules 2003.
(2)
They shall apply for selection and allotment of candidates for admission into University/Government/Private
Aided/Private Un-Aided/Aided Minority/Un-Aided Minority Colleges of Physical Education in the State of Andhra Pradesh
for which admissions shall be made through Common Entrance Test held by the State or its agency designated as
PECET vide Ref (5) cited.
(3)
These Rules shall be applicable for the academic year 2003-2004 only.
2.
Definitions.
(1)
In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires.
(a)
"Act" means the Andhra Pradesh Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admission and Prohibition of Capitation Fee)
Act, 1983 (Act
No. 5 of 1983
).
(b)
"Committee for Admissions" means the Committee nominated by the Competent Authority to select and make allotment
of candidates to B.P.Ed/U.C D.P.Ed Course in University/Government/Private-Aided. / Private Un-Aided/Aided
Minority/Un-Aided Minority Colleges of Physical Education in the State of Andhra Pradesh for Admissions to the extent
of seats earmarked to the State Agency in accordance with the provisions laid down".
(c)
"Commissioner" means Commissioner of School Education, Government of Andhra Pradesh empowered to decide the
Admission and Academic Programme of Colleges of Physical Education.
(d)
"Common Entrance Test" means Physical Education Common Entrance Test the examination conducted for assigning
merit ranking to candidates, which will be the basis for admission of the candidates into the B.P.Ed/ U.G.D.P.Ed Course
in various University / Government/Private Aided/Private Un-Aided Colleges of Physical Education in the State.
(e)
"Common Entrance Test of Association of Colleges of Physical Education" means Physical Education Common
Entrance Test, Adhoc Committee the Examination conducted for assigning merit ranking to candidates which will be the
basis for admission of candidates to the extent of seats provided in B.P.Ed/U.G.D.P.Ed. Courses for the managements
of Colleges of Physical Education in the State.
(f)
"Competent Authority" means the Chairman, Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education.
(g)
"Convenor" means a person not below the rank of a Professor or Head of Department of Physical Education of a
University or Director of Physical Education of a University who is the Member Convener of the committee of
Admissions for the conduct of Physical Education Common Entrance Test and also to make allotment of candidates to
B.P.Ed/ U.G.U.P.Ed Course for all the Convener Seats earmarked in Colleges of Physical Education in the State.
(h)
"Convenor Seats" means the Government seats earmarked from out of the sanctioned intake of seats in each institution
Page 2/11
----- PAGE 3 -----
Andhra Pradesh Colleges of Physical Education Admissions through Common Entrance Test Rule...
to be filled by the Convenor.
(i)
"Management Seats" means the seats earmarked from out of the sanctioned intake of seats to be filled by the
Management of the Private Un-Aided Colleges of Physical Education and Un-Aided Minority Colleges of Physical
Education.
(j)
"Institutions" means, unless otherwise specifically mentioned, all the University/Government/ Private Aided/Private
Un-Aided/ Aided Minority/Un-Aided Minority Colleges of Physical Education (including those detailed as State-wise
institutions) imparting B.P.Ed/U.G.D.P.Ed Course.
(k)
"Fee Committee" means the committee constituted with the following to fix the fees fur professional courses.
(i)
Retired High Court Judge nominated by the Chief Justice, as Chairman of the Committee.
(ii)
Chartered Accountant nominated by the Chairman of the Committee.
(iii)
A representative of NCTE.
(iv)
Secretary to State Government in-charge of School Education, A.P. Secretariat, Hyd.
(v)
Independent person of repute nominated by the committee
(l)
"Permanent Committee" means the committee, constituted to ensure that the PECET-AC conducted by the Association
of Colleges is fair and transparent and the Committee constituted with the following members:
(i)
Retired High Court Judge nominated by the Chief Justice
(ii)
Educationist of eminence.
(iii)
Secretary to State Government in-charge of School Education, A.P.Sectt., Hyd.
(iv)
Independent person of repute in the field of Education nominated by the committee.
(v)
Vice-Chancellor of University nominated by the Committee.
(m)
"Local area" means the territorial jurisdiction prescribed for identifying the local candidate:
(n)
"Local Candidate" means the Candidate in relation to the local area as specified in Rule (6) of these Rules.
(o)
"Qualified Candidate" means the candidate who has appeared for the Common Entrance Test for admission into
B.P.Ed/U.G.D.PEd Course and has been assigned ranking in the Common Merit List vide Rule 6 in G.O. Ms.No. 39
dated 27th March 2003.
(p)
"Qualifying Examination" means the examination of the minimum qualification prescribed for appearance: passing of
which entitles one to seek admission into the B.PEd/U.G.D.P.Ed Course as prescribed in the Andhra Pradesh Common
Entrance Test for entry into Under Graduate Diploma in Education (UGDPD), Bachelor of Physical Education (B.P.Ed.,)
Common Rules, 2003 is issued in G.O.Ms.No. 39, Education (Trg) Deptt., dated 27-3-2003.
(q)
"State Council" means the Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education, constituted under the Andhra Pradesh
Council of Higher Education Act, 1988 (Act No. 16 of 1988).
(r)
Page 3/11
----- PAGE 4 -----
Andhra Pradesh Colleges of Physical Education Admissions through Common Entrance Test Rule...
"University" means the University concerned in which the particular course is offered:
(s)
"Inspecting Authority" means such an authority nominated by the competent Authority for the purpose of verification of
admission.
2. Words and expressions used but not defined in these rules shall have the same meaning assigned to them in the
"Act":
3.
Method of Admission.
- (i) The admissions shall be made in the order of merit on the basis of the ranking assigned in PECET, or PECET-AC:
(ii)
The total number of candidates to be admitted in B.P.Ed/U.G.D.P.Ed in the University / Government/Private
Aided/Private Un-Aided/Aided Minority/ Un-Aided Minority Colleges of Physical Education shall not exceed the intake
prescribed by the Government/University from time to time.
4.
Eligibility for Admission.
- The eligibility criteria in respect of Nationality and Domicile, age limit, Educational Qualifications etc., for admission into
B. P.Ed/ U.G.D.P.Ed Course shall be as mentioned below:
(1)
Candidates should be of Indian Nationality.
(2)
Candidates should belong to the State of Andhra Pradesh. The candidates should satisfy local/non-local status
requirements as laid down in the A.P. Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admission) Order, 1974 as amended from
time to time.
(3)
Educational Qualifications and age limit:
(i)
For U.G.D.Ed. Course. - (a) candidates seeking Admissions should have passed 2-year Intermediate Course (10 plus 2
pattern).
OR
Intermediate Vocational Course in any field prescribed by the Board of Intermediate Education, Andhra Pradesh:
OR
Any other examination recognized as equivalent to the above examinations by the respective bodies in Andhra Pradesh.
(b)
Candidates should have completed 16 years of age on the date of commencement of admissions.
(ii)
For B.P.Ed. Course. - (a) The candidates seeking Admission should have passed three year Degree examination in any
faculty (10 plus 2 plus 3 pattern) or any examination recognised as equivalent thereto by the Universities in Andhra
Pradesh.
(b)
Candidates should have completed 19 years of age on the date of commencement of admissions.
(a)
Govt/University/Private Aided Non-Minority
(b)
Private Un-Aided Non-Minority
© Private Aided Minority
(i)
The seats shall be allotted to eligible candidates under these Rules on the basis of rank obtained at PECET, PECET-AC
and by following Rules of reservation laid down by the Government from time to time.
(ii)
A committee of Admissions may be constituted, by competent authority with the following members to advise the
Convenor in the matters relating to admission and on such other matters necessary for the smooth conduct of
Page 4/11
----- PAGE 5 -----
Andhra Pradesh Colleges of Physical Education Admissions through Common Entrance Test Rule...
Admissions
Members:
(a)
Convener
(b)
representative from each of the affiliating University in the State
(c)
Special invitees nominated by the Chairman of the Committee.
(iii)
The Convenor shall prepare the seat matrix of the available seats in University / Government/Private Aided
Non-Minority/Private Un-Aided Non-Minority / Private Un-Aided Minority Colleges of Physical Education in the state. He
shall prepare the programme of schedule for admissions, notify the programme of admissions after due approval of the
commissioner and shall
(iii)
In Service Candidates. - In the case of admissions of in-service Physical Education Teacher candidates (including
Physical Director) working in the Educational Institutions under all categories of Managements, namely Government,
Local Bodies and Private, the selection shall be made on the basis of the length of service. They need not appear for
Entrance Test.
5.
Allotment of Seats and Procedure of Admissions for the year 2003-2004 only.
- (A) Convenor Seats: The Convener shall fill the following percentage of seats of the sanctioned intake in the colleges
of Physical Education as mentioned below
- 100% Seats
- 85% of Seats;
- 30%
make all the necessary arrangements for Admission.
(iv)
candidates shall be called for Counselling and provisional allotment to the Institutions shall be made in the order of merit
assigned at PECET by following the Rules of Reservation issued by the Govt., from time to time and such allotment is
only provisional.
(v)
The selection of candidates against the Convener Seats and the allotment in respect of University/Government/ Private
Aided Non-Minority/Private Un-Aided Non-Minority Colleges of Physical Education shall be solely on the basis of merit
as adjudged by the rank obtained in the Entrance Test subject to the condition that the candidate should have passed
the qualifying examination. However, mere appearance at the Entrance Test and obtaining rank in the merit list does not
entitle a candidate to be considered for admission automatically into any B.P.Ed/U.G. D.P.Ed Programme offered by the
Colleges of Physical Education in the State unless he/she also satisfies the rules and regulations of admission
prescribed by the concerned University/Government including marks to be obtained in the qualifying examination.
(vi)
Once a candidate secures admission to a particular College/Institution based on his/her option, no more claim for
admission into other Colleges shall be entertained.
(vii)
The candidates admitted against the convener seats in the University/ Government/private Aided Non-Minority / Private
Un-Aided Non-Minority / Private Un-Aided Minority Colleges of Physical Education shall pay the fee at the time of
admission as prescribed by the Government/ respective Universities from time to time.
(viii)
The Convener shall prepare the final list of candidates admitted institution wise and send the same to the Registrar of
affiliating Universities, Commissioner of School Education and The Secretary, APSCHE.
(ix)
All the candidates called for counselling shall produce the specified original documents along with duly attested
photocopies and the Convenor shall be entitled to cause verification of all the documents produced by the candidates.
Page 5/11
----- PAGE 6 -----
Andhra Pradesh Colleges of Physical Education Admissions through Common Entrance Test Rule...
(B)
Management/convenor Seats For The Year 2003-2004 Only. - (i) Category A: Aided Non-Minority Colleges
The Convenor, PE.CET.,-2003 shall allot candidates to all the seats (100%) in all aided Non-Minority Colleges from the
common merit list of the candidates as per rules.
Category B: Un-aided Non-Minority Colleges. - The Convenor, PE.CET-2003 shall allot candidates to the extent of 85%
of seats from the Common merit list of PECET-2003 as per rules. The Management shall fill up 15% of the remaining
seats, from out of the candidates eligible and qualified in PECET-2003/Common Entrance Test conducted by
association of Managements of Colleges of PECET-AC.
Category C: Government Physical Education Colleges. - The Convener, PE-CET-2003, shall allot candidates to all the
seats (100%) from the common merit list of PE-CET-2003 as per rules.
In respect of State wide Institutions 85% of the seats shall be allocated among the three regions (Local areas) of the
state (viz) in the ratio of 42:36:22 respectively and the remaining 15% seats shall be unreserved for which local area
candidates and non-local candidates of A. P., can compete in combined merit order.
(ii)
Category A: Aided Minority Colleges. - The Management of Aided Minority Colleges shall admit the Candidates to the
extent of 70% belonging to concerned Minority Community who are eligible and qualified in PE-CET-2003 or Common
Entrance Test (CET-AC) conducted by the Association of Managements of Colleges duly following the transparency
measures prescribed in this G.O.,
The remaining 30% of the seats shall be filled by the Convenor admissions from the common merit list of the (PE-CET)
candidates
Category B: Un-aided Minority Colleges. - The Management of Un-aided Minority Colleges shall admit the candidates to
the extent of 85% of intake belonging to concerned Minority Community who are eligible and qualified in PE.CET 2003
or Common Entrance Test conducted by Association of Managements of Colleges (PE.CET-AC) as Clarified by Hon'ble
Supreme Court in Islamia Educational Academy case.
The admissions shall be as per merit ranking among the candidates applied to the colleges duly following the
transparent method prescribed in this G.O., and as per guidelines issued in G.O.Ms.No. 1, Min. We. (M&R) Deptt., dated
16-1-2004. The existing rules of reservation for special categories i.e., NCC/CAP/PHC/PHC and Women are to be
followed.
85.
% of the seats shall be allotted to the local candidates and remaining 15% of the seats shall be unreserved for which
local candidates and non-local candidates of A.P., can compete in combined merit order of concerned minority.
If the management is unable to get sufficient number of concerned Minority candidates, such seats can be filled with
Non-Minority candidates who qualified in the PE-CET-2003 duly following merit order and rules of reservation with prior
approval of the commissioner and Director of school Education. However, the provisions of G.O.Ms.No. 1, Minority
Welfare (M&R) Deptt., dated 16-1-2004 has to be fulfilled, if the Minority Status of the College is to be retained.
The remaining 15% of seats shall be filled with eligible and qualified candidates of PECET-2003 either by Minority or
Non-Minority.
6.
Rules of Reservation for admission.
- The seats shall be reserved to the following categories in Admissions to B.P.Ed/ U.G.D.P.Ed. courses:
1. Region-wise reservation of seats:
(a)
Admission to 85% of the "Convenor seats" and "Management seats" shall be reserved for the local candidates.
The remaining 15% of the "Convenor seats" and "Management Seats" shall be un-reserved seats as specified in the
Andhra Pradesh Educational Institutions (Regulations and Admissions) Order, 1979 as amended in G.O.P.No. 646
Education (W) Department, dated 10-07-1979.
(b)
In respect of State-wide Institutions, admissions into 85% of seats, shall be reserved for the candidates belonging to the
three local areas in the State specified in this sub-rule namely, Andhra University area (Andhra), Osmania University
area (Telangana) and Sri Venkateswara University area (Rayalaseema) in the ratio of 42:36:22 respectively and the
balance of 15% seats shall be left for open competition.
Page 6/11
----- PAGE 7 -----
Andhra Pradesh Colleges of Physical Education Admissions through Common Entrance Test Rule...
A. Explanation. - For purpose of these rules
(i)
The Local Areas means:
(a)
The part of the State comprising the districts of Adilabad, Hyderabad (including Twin Cities) Ranga Reddy, Karimnagar,
Khammam, Medak, Mahaboobnagar, Nalgonda, Nizamabad and Warangal shall be regarded as the Osmania University
Local area (Telangana).
(b)
The part of the State Comprising the districts of Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, East Godavari, West
Godavari, Krishna, Guntur and Prakasam shall be regarded as the Andhra University Local Area (Andhra).
(c)
The part of the State Comprising the districts of Anantapur, Kumool, Chittoor, Kadapa and Nellore shall be regarded as
the Sri Venkateswara University Local area (Rayalaseema).
(ii)
The Local candidate means:
(a)
A candidate for admission shall be regarded as a local candidate in relation to a local area.
If he has studied in Educational Institution or Educational Institutions in such local area for a period of not less than four
consecutive academic years ending with the academic year in which he appeared or as the case may be, first appeared
in the relevant qualifying examination.
OR
(b)
Where, during the whole or any part of the four consecutive academic years ending with the academic year in which he
appeared or as the case may be first appeared for the relevant qualifying examination he has not studied in any
Educational Institutions, if he has resided in that local area for a period of not less than four years immediately preceding
the date of commencement of the relevant qualifying examination which he appeared or as the case may be first
appeared.
(B)
A candidate for admission to the Course who is not regarded as local candidate under clause (a) in relation to any local
area shall.
(a)
If he has studied in Educational Institutions in the State for a period of not less than seven consecutive academic years
ending with the academic year in which he appeared or as the case may be first appeared for the relevant qualifying
examination be regarded as a local candidate in relation to...........
(i)
Such local area where he has studied for the maximum period out of said period of seven years.
OR
(ii)
Where the period of his study in two or more local areas are equal such local area where he has studied last in such
equal period.
OR
(b)
If, during the whole or any part of seven consecutive academic years ending with the academic year in which he
appeared or as case may be first appeared for the relevant qualifying examination he has not studied in the Educational
Institutions in any local area but has resided in the State during the whole of the said period of seven years, be regarded
as a local candidate in relation to........
(i)
Such local area where he has resided for the maximum period out of the said period of seven years
OR
(ii)
Where the periods of his residence in two or more local areas are equal, such local area where he has resided last in
Page 7/11
----- PAGE 8 -----
Andhra Pradesh Colleges of Physical Education Admissions through Common Entrance Test Rule...
such equal periods.
(C)
The following categories of candidates are eligible to apply for admission to the remaining 15% of un-reserved seats:
(a)
All the candidates eligible to be declared as local candidates
(b)
candidates who have resided in the State for a total period of 10 years excluding periods of study outside the State or
either or whose parent have resided in the State for a total period of ten years excluding period of employment outside
the State.
(c)
Candidates who are children of parents who are in the employment of this State or Central Government, Public Sector
Corporations, Local Bodies, Universities and other similar quasi-public Institutions, within the State.
(d)
Candidates who are spouses of those in the employment of the State or Central Government Public Sector
Corporations, Local Bodies, Universities and Educational Institutions recognised by the Government or University OR
Other competent authority and similar quasi Government Institutions within the State.
(D)
If a local candidate in respect of a local area is not available to fill any seat reserved or allocated in favour of a local
candidate in respect of that local area, such seat shall be filled as if it had not been reserved.
Note. - For details, see the Andhra Pradesh Educational Institutions (Regulations of Admission) Order, 1974 as
amended in G.O.P.No. 646, Edn. (W) Department, dated 10-07-1979.
(2)
Reservation of seats for SC/ST/BC Communities. - (a) 15% of seats in each institution ' shall be reserved for the
candidates belonging to Schedule Caste as shown below:
SC-A-1% SC-B-7% SC-C-6% SC-D-1% (Vide G.O.Ms.No. 116 Social Welfare (CV.l) dated 10-12-1999 read with A.P.
Ordinance No. 6/1999 (Gazette Notification dated 9-12-1999 of Government, of A.P.)
(b)
6% of seats in each Institution shall be reserved for the candidates belonging to the scheduled Tribes. The seats
reserved for Scheduled Tribes shall be made available to Scheduled Castes and Vice-versa, if qualified candidates are
not available in the category.
If qualified candidates belong to scheduled castes and scheduled Tribes communities are not available the left over
seats reserved for them shall be treated as reserved and shall be filled up with candidates of General Pool.
(c)
25% seats in each institution shall be served for the candidates belonging to the Backward classes and shall be
allocated among the four groups of Backward classes as shown below (vide G.O.Ms.No. 1793, Edn., dated 23-9-70):
Group 'A'
- 7%
Group 'B'
- 10%
Group 'C'
- 1%
Group D'
- 7%
If qualified candidates belonging to Backward class of a particular group are not available, the leftover seats can be
adjusted for the candidates of next group. If qualified candidates belonging to Backward classes are not available to fill
up the 25% seats reserved for them, the left over seats shall be treated as unreserved and shall be filled up with
candidates of General pool.
(d)
No candidate seeking reservation of admission under the above categories be allowed to participate in the Counselling
of admission unless he produces the Integrated Community Certificate prescribed by the Govt., and issued by the
Revenue Authorities in the Govt, (vide G.O.Ms.No. 58, Social Welfare (J) Dept., dated 12-5-1997)
Page 8/11
----- PAGE 9 -----
Andhra Pradesh Colleges of Physical Education Admissions through Common Entrance Test Rule...
(3)
Reservation for Special Categories. - (a) Seats shall also be reserved in each institution, for the following categories, to
the extent indicated against them.
(i)
Children of Armed Persons (CAP) -4% for the children of Ex-Servicemen and Defence Personnel including B.S.F. and
Central Reserve Police Force residing in Andhra Pradesh.
(ii)
National Cadet Corps (NCC) - 1% for National Cadet Corps candidates If qualified candidates belonging to NCC/CAP
categories are not available, the left over seats shall be filled up with candidates of General Pool.
Note. - The candidates claiming reservation benefits under the above categories shall produce original documents in
support of their claim to the Convenor and he shall be entitled to refer the original documents of the candidates claiming
reservation for scrutiny and confirmation, to the following authorities.
(i)
NCC - To the Director of NCC, Andhra Pradesh
(ii)
CAP - To The Director, Sainik Welfare Dept., A.P.
(b)
The Priorities in respect of the special categories mentioned above shall be in accordance with Government Orders
issued from time to time.
(4)
Reservation of seats of women. - There shall be a reservation of 33 '/3% of seats in favour of women candidates in each
category (OC/SC/ST/BC/CAP/ NCC
The above reservation shall not be applicable if women candidates are selected on merit in each category even if it
exceeds 33.1/3%.
If sufficient number of women candidates are not available in the respective categories, those seats shall be diverted to
the men candidates of the same category.
7.
Fee for B.P.Ed./U.G.D.P.Ed Colleges.
- The fee shall be as prescribed by the Govt., in G.O.Ms.No. 106. Edn., (SE.Trg.II) Dept., dated 11-9-2000 for the
academic year 2003-2004 which is as follows:
Un-aided Colleges Govt.,/Aided Colleges
(1)
U.G.D.P.Ed.Course
Rs.
Rs.
(i) Tuition Fee
8,000/-
2,000/-
(ii) Special Fee
2,000/-
2,000/-
(2)
B.P.Ed., Course
(i) Tuition Fee
10,000/-
3,000/-
(ii) Special Fee
800/-
800/-
8.
Admission Process In Minority Colleges.
Page 9/11
----- PAGE 10 -----
Andhra Pradesh Colleges of Physical Education Admissions through Common Entrance Test Rule...
- Transparency measures to be followed for 85%/70% seats to be filled by the Managements of un-aided/Aided Minority
Colleges Physical of Education respectively shall be as follows:
(i)
A notification is to be issued in the local news paper (at least in two paper) duly mentioning the number of seats
available inviting applications from the candidates eligible and qualified in PE-CET-2003. Copies of notification should
be submitted to the District Educational Officer and also commissioner & Director of School Education.
(ii)
The Managements of Minority Colleges of Physical Education shall supply application forms to the candidates in
duplicate. The list of certificates to be submitted along with the application should be mentioned clearly in the application
form.
(iii)
The Managements of Minority Colleges of Physical Education shall also make application forms available in the
concerned D.E.O. Office.
(iv)
The candidates have to submit the original applications in the college and duplicate application in the respective DEO
Office.
(v)
Acknowledgement should be issued to the applicants by the management duly verifying whether the candidate has
submitted all the certificates required along with the application and if any Certificate is not enclosed the candidate
should be advised to submit the application along with the required Certificate, which is not enclosed. In respect of the
applications submitted along with all the required Certificates acknowledgement should be given on the spot at the time
of submission instead of sending by post.
(vi)
After the last date for receipt of the applications the D.E.Os. shall prepare the total list of all the applicants and shall
forward the applications along with the list to the college under proper acknowledgement.
(vii)
The merit list should be displayed at the college, D.E.O's office and also on www.aponline.gov, in by the D. E. O. one
week before the admission of the candidates.
(viii)
The admissions should be made as per the admission schedule to be issued by the Commissioner & Director of School
Education.
(ix)
Regarding admission of the candidates to the special categories- i.e. NCC/ Sports and Games/PHS/CAP the certificates
have to be got verified & confirmed by the respective authorities as mentioned in this G.O.
(x)
The minority status of the candidates should be determined as per the provisions of the order issued in G.O.Ms. No. 1,
Minorities Welfare (M&R) Dept, dated VI 6-01-2004.
(xi)
The first list of candidates provisionally selected should be displayed on the notice board and also at the office of the
District Educational Officer and also made available on www.aponline.gov.in The candidates should be informed
telegraphically well in advance.
(xii)
In case all the candidates selected are not reported for taking admission on the schedule date the un-filled seats may be
filled up through 2nd & 3rd lists strictly respectively as per rules.
(xiii)
Even if in the 3rd list also if all the seats could not be filled they should be filled through spot admissions on the
scheduled date issued by the Commissioner & Director of School Education.
(xiv)
Management shall not reject the application on flimsy grounds or small rectifiable mistake.
(xv)
The college shall prepare the merit list taking into account all the applications i.e. supplied by the D.E.O and received in
Page 10/11
----- PAGE 11 -----
Andhra Pradesh Colleges of Physical Education Admissions through Common Entrance Test Rule...
his office. The merit list has to be submitted to the D.E.O. who shall verify and ensure that all the applications send by
him are included in the merit list. The following aspects shall be verified by the DEOs before approving the list of
provisionally selected candidates for admission.
(a)
Whether merit order has been followed.
(b)
Eligibility of candidates as per eligibility criteria laid down
(c)
Whether rules of reservation, where applicable have been followed.
9.
All the admissions made by all the managements under their quota shall be got approved by the competent authority i.e.
A.P.S.C.H.E. duly submitting all the relevant records as called for.
10.
Penalty for irregular admissions made under Management Quota.
- In case, irregular admissions are made under management seats without following eligible criteria and other admission
rules the following penalty shall be imposed on the Principal/Correspondent responsible for such irregular admissions.
(i)
Penal action shall be initiated as per Section 9 of Act
5 of 1983
of Andhra Pradesh Educational Institutions (regulation of admission and prohibition of capitation fee) Act 1983.
(ii)
The "No Objection Certificate" (NOC) issued to the society for establishment of the College will be withdraw and thereby
the college looses its affiliation issued by the University concerned and recognition granted by NCTE.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 11/11