
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh Language Pundits Training Colleges (Regulation of Admission) Rules, 2005
Andhra Pradesh Language Pundits Training Colleges (Regulation of
Admission) Rules, 2005
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/177233632/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh Language Pundits Training Colleges (Regulation of Admission) Rules, 2005
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh Language Pundits Training Colleges (Regulation of Admission) Rules, 2005
Rule
ANDHRA-PRADESH-LANGUAGE-PUNDITS-TRAINING-COLLEGES-REGULATION-OF-ADMISSION-RULES-2005 of
2005
Published on 12 February 2004
Commenced on 12 February 2004
[This is the version of this document from 12 February 2004.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Andhra Pradesh Language Pundits Training Colleges (Regulation of Admission) Rules, 2005
Published vide Notification No. G.O.Ms.No. 201, Education (SE. TRG-2), 21.3.2005
Last Updated 14th September, 2019  [ap579]
G.O.Ms.No. 201. - In exercise of powers conferred by Sections 3 and 15 of the Andhra Pradesh Educational Institutions
(Regulation of Admission and Prohibition of Capitation Fee) Act, 1983 (Andhra Pradesh Act 5 of 1983) and iii super
session of the Adhoc Rules issued in G.O.Rt.No. 199, Education (SE-Trg.2) Department dated the 12th February 2004,
the Governor of Andhra Pradesh hereby make the following ad hoc rules for admission of students into the Language
Page 1/8
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh Language Pundits Training Colleges (Regulation of Admission) Rules, 2005
Pandit Training Colleges in the State.
1.
Short title and Applicability.
- (i) These rules may be called the Andhra Pradesh Language Pundits Training Colleges (Regulation of Admission)
Rules, 2005.
(ii)
They shall apply to all the colleges offering the Language Pandit Training Courses in the State for the academic year
2004-05.
2.
(i)
The admission of students in the Pandit Training Colleges in the State shall be made as stated below.
(A)
Category A: Government/ University Pandit Training Colleges. - The Convener, LPCET 2004 shall allot candidates to all
the seats (100%) in the Government and University Pandit Training Colleges from the common merit list of candidates
as per rules.
In respect of state wide institutions 85% of the seats shall be allocated among the three regions (Local areas) of the
State viz., the Andhra University, the Osmania University and
Sri Venkateswara University in the ratio of 42; 36; 22 respectively and the remaining 15% seats shall be unreserved for
which local candidates and non local candidates of Andhra Pradesh can compete in combined merit order.
(B)
Category B: Aided Non-Minority Colleges. - The Convenor. LPCET 2004 shall allot candidates to all the seats (100%) in
Private aided Non-Minority colleges from the common merit list of the candidates as per rules.
(C)
Category C: Un-Aided Non-Minority Colleges. - The Convenor, LPCET 2004 shall allot candidates to the extent of 85%
of seats in Private Un-aided Non-minority Colleges from the Common merit list of candidates as per rules. The
management shall fill up 15% of the remaining seats from out of the candidates eligible and qualified in LPCET 2004/a
Common Entrance Test conducted by Association of Managements of Pandit Training Colleges i.e., LPCET-AC as per
their option.
(D)
Category D: Aided Minority Colleges. - The managements of Aided Minority colleges shall admit the candidates to the
extent of 70% belonging to concerned Minority Community who are eligible and qualified in LPCET 2004/or LPCET-AC
2004 conducted by the Association of Managements of Colleges as per their option and as per merit.
The remaining 30% of the seats shall be filled by the Convenor, LPECT 2004 from the common merit list of the
candidates as per rules.
(E)
Category E: Un-aided Minority Colleges. - The Managements of Unaided Minority Colleges shall admit
(a)
55% of candidates to the extent of intake belonging to concerned Minority Community who are eligible and qualified in
LPCET 2004/LPCET-AC 2004 as per their option and as per merit.
(b)
30% of seats shall be filled by the Convenor LPCET 2004 from the Common merit list of candidates as per rules.
(c)
15% of seats shall be filed with eligible and qualified candidates in LPCET/2004 or LPCET-AC, 2004 as per the option
already exercised by them either by Minority or Non-minority candidates.
(ii)
The admissions in Minority colleges shall be as per merit ranking among the candidates applied to the college duly
following the transparent method prescribed in the rules. The existing rules of reservation for special categories i.e.,
NCC/S&G/Sports/ Defense Personnel/PH and women shall be followed.
(iii)
85% of the seats shall be allotted to the local candidates and remaining 15% of the seats shall be unreserved for which
local candidates and non-local candidates of Andhra Pradesh can compete in combined merit order of concerned
Page 2/8
----- PAGE 3 -----
Andhra Pradesh Language Pundits Training Colleges (Regulation of Admission) Rules, 2005
minority. The local candidature of the candidate is to be determined as per the Andhra Pradesh Education Institutions
(Regulation of Admissions) order, 1974 issued in G.O.Ms.No. 453 General Administration (SPF. B) Department dated
3-7-1974 as subsequently amended.
(iv)
The admission of students in Language Pandit Training Course in the Management quota of the Private Unaided
Colleges shall be governed as per the conditions stipulated by the Permanent Committee constituted in the G.O.Ms.No.
72 Education (SE-Trg. 1) Department dated 5-7-2004. Accordingly, the Secretary of the permanent committee shall
issue a notification directing the Management of each Private Minority/Non-minority Language Pandit Colleges whether
an association was formed by them and if so whether the association intends to conduct LPCET-AC corresponding to
LPCET-2004-05 conducted by the Government of Andhra Pradesh and exercise their option of choosing from either of
the aforesaid tests to admit the students under Management quota for the year 2004-05.
3.
Eligibility criteria for admissions.
- (i) The candidates shall be admitted into Telugu Pandit Training Courses as per the orders issued in G.O.Ms. No. 53,
Edn. department, dated 27-08-1999 read with G.O.Ms.No. 21 Edn., dated 28-02-2003 for Urdu Pandit Training course,
G.O.Ms.No. 60, Edn. Department, dated 04-09-1999 read with G.O.Ms.No. 22, Edn., dated 28-02-2003 for Hindi Pandit
Training Course as per the orders issued n G.O.Ms.No. 954, dated 05-08-1995 for Hindi Pandit Training Course.
(ii)
The candidate should have obtained a merit rank either at LPCET or LPCET (AC).
(iii)
Qualifying marks in the entrance test for general category" of candidates shall be 35%. However, there shall be no
minimum qualifying marks in respect of candidates belonging to the SCs/ STs.
4.
Method of Admissions (General).
- The following Common Rules shall be applicable to all the Pandit Training Colleges.
(i)
Mere appearance at the common entrance test and obtaining a rank does not entitle a candidate to be considered for
admission automatically into Pandit Training Course unless he/she also satisfies the rules and regulations of the
admission prescribed by the Government including marks to be obtained in the qualifying examination.
(ii)
The percentage, number of candidates to be admitted shall not exceed the limit prescribed by the Government from time
to time. .
(iii)
The Minority and non-minority institutions shall admit the candidates as allotted by the Convenor LPCET under his quota
of seats as per rules.
(iv)
Private Pandit Training colleges or its managements shall not call for applications for admission separately or
individually for the Convenor seat's under any circumstances.
(v)
For arriving at the number of seats under 15% management quota, the fraction above 0.5 only should be taken as (1)
and fraction of 0.5 and below should be ignored.
5.
Fees.
- (i) The Government/University Pandit Training Colleges shall collect the fee as prescribed by the Govt./University
respectively.
(ii)
Private Pandit Training colleges shall collect the fee as prescribed by the Fee Committee constituted by the
Government.
6.
Categories exempted from LPCET 2004.
- The requirement of qualifying at the common Entrance test shall not be applicable to the departmental candidates for
Page 3/8
----- PAGE 4 -----
Andhra Pradesh Language Pundits Training Colleges (Regulation of Admission) Rules, 2005
whom Pandit Training qualification is prescribed as essential for service regularization/declaration of probation/
promotion and deputed by the department. They shall be given admission in any Govt/ recognized private colleges
located nearer to their working place in the seats reserved to them without any reference to the Common Entrance Test.
These admissions will be made over and above the sanctioned intake by the Government.
7.
Admission process to fill up the Convener's seats.
(a)
An Admission Committee shall be constituted with the following members to advise the Convener, LPCET in the matter
relating to admissions and on such other matters necessary for smooth conduct of admissions:
1
Director of School Education
Chairman
2
Director, SCERT
Member
3
Convener of LPCET
Member Convener
4
Convener of DIET-CET
Member
5
Principal IASE Masabtank Hyderabad
Member
6
By. Director (Training), O/o the DSE, Hyderabad
Member
7
Two subject experts each in the concerned
Language
Member
8
Special Invitee nominated by D.S.E
Member
(b)
Private Pandit Training colleges or its managements shall not call for application for admission separately or individually
for the Convener's seats under any circumstances.
(c)
Candidates shall be called for counselling and provisional allotment of institutions shall be made in order of merit
assigned at Common Entrance Test following the rule of reservation issued by the Government from time to time and
such allotment is only provisional.
(d)
The selection and allotment of candidates for various institutions in respect of Government/Private Colleges shall be
solely on the basis of merit as adjudged by the rank obtained in the entrance test subject to condition that the candidates
should have passed the qualifying examination and secured the required marks as stipulated in the admission rules.
(e)
Admission shall be made in accordance with the instructions contained in G.O.Ms.No. 550, Education (EC-2)
Department, dated 30-7-2001.
(f)
Once, a candidate secures admission to a particular institution based on his/her option, no more claim for admission into
other colleges be entertained except as provided by the Convener, LPCET.
Page 4/8
----- PAGE 5 -----
Andhra Pradesh Language Pundits Training Colleges (Regulation of Admission) Rules, 2005
(g)
The candidates admitted in Government/University Colleges shall pay tuition fee, special fee and other fee if any at the
time of admission, as prescribed per annum, by the Government/University.
(h)
The candidates admitted in Private Un-Aided Colleges (Minority/Non-Minority) shall pay tuition fees, special fees and
other fees, if any, as fixed by the fee committee constituted by the Government.
(i)
The Convener, LPCET shall prepare the final list of candidates admitted course-wise and institution wise and send the
same to DSE, DGE, A.P., Hyderabad, and Regional Joint Director of School Education concerned.
(j)
The Convener, LPCET in consultation with the Admission Committee shall fix the cut off dates for each stage of
admissions.
(k)
All the candidates called for counseling shall produce the specified original certificates along with the duly attested
photocopies and the Convener LPCET shall be entitled to cause verification of all the certificates produced by the
candidates.
(l)
The Chairman of Admission Committee is the competent authority to clarify any doubts and his decision is final with
regard to interpretation of the rules mentioned in various G.Os. pertaining to admissions.
8.
Reservation of Seats for SC/ST/BC Communities.
- (i) 15% of the seats shall be reserved for the candidates belonging to scheduled castes. If qualified scheduled caste
candidates are not available in a local area then the vacancies available in that local area shall be allotted to the SC
category candidates of other local areas in the order of merit.
(ii)
6% of the seats shall be reserved for the candidates belonging to schedule Tribes. If qualified Schedule Tribe
candidates are not available in a local area then the vacancies available in that local area shall be allotted to the same
category candidates (ST candidates) of other local areas in the order of merit.
Provided that if the seats reserved for scheduled Tribe candidates are still vacant after exhausting all the candidates in
the merit list then they shall be allotted in the merit order to the scheduled Caste candidates of the respective regions
and vice versa. Provided further that if qualified candidates belonging to Scheduled Caste and scheduled Tribe
communities are not available in all the regions then the left over seats reserved for them shall be treated as unreserved
seats and shall be filled by the candidates of the general pool of the respective local areas.
(iii)
25% of the seats shall be reserved for the candidates belonging to Backward Classes and shall be allocated among the
four groups of Backward classes as shown below.
BC-A: 7%
BC-B: 10%
BC-C: 1%
BC-D: 7%
If qualified candidates belonging to Backward class of a particular group are not available, the left over seats can be
adjusted for the candidates of the next group in the cyclic order. If qualified candidates belonging to Backward classes
are not available to fill up the 25% of the seats reserved for them in a particulars local area, the left over seats shall be
treated as unreserved and shall be filled up with the candidates of the general pool of the same local area.
(iv)
No candidate seeking reservation for admission under the above categories be allowed to participate in the counselling
for admission unless he/ she produce the integrated community certificate prescribed by the Government and issued by
the revenue authorities vide G.O.Ms.No. 58 Social Welfare (J) department, dated 12-05-1997.
9.
Reservation for special categories.
- Seats shall also be reserved in an institution for the following categories to the extent indicated against them.
Page 5/8
----- PAGE 6 -----
Andhra Pradesh Language Pundits Training Colleges (Regulation of Admission) Rules, 2005
(i)
Reservation of seats for NCC/Scouts and Guide/Sports Candidates:- 1% (One percent) of seats in each institution shall
be reserved for the candidates possessing certificates of distinction in NCC/Scouts and Guide/ Sports.
(ii)
Reservation of seats for the Ex-Servicemen, their children and Spouses:- 4% (P"our Percentage) of the available seats
in each institution shall be reserved for the Ex-servicemen, Border Security Force and Central Reserve Police Force
residing in Andhra Pradesh and/or their children/ spouses.
(iii)
Physically Handicapped (PH):- There shall be 3% (three percent) horizontal reservation in each category
(OC/BC/SC/ST) for Visually Handicapped/Hearing Impaired/ Orthopaedically Handicapped candidates (each 1%)
(iv)
(a)
If qualified candidates belonging to NCC/Scouts & guides/sports/Ex-Servicemen categories are not available, the left
over seats shall be filled up with the candidates of general pool of the same local area, (b) If qualified candidates
belonging to "PH" category are not available the left over seats shall be diverted to their respective categories (OC/BC/
SC/ST) of the same local area.
(v)
To claim a seat under NCC/S&G/ Sports/Ex-Servicemen and PH (OC/ BC category) the candidates belonging to SC/ST
communities should secure the minimum qualifying marks (prescribed for general category).
Note. - (a) The candidates claiming reservation benefit under the above categories (NCC/S&G/Sports /Ex-Servicemen/
PH) shall produce original documents in support of their claim to the convener (admissions)/management and they shall
be entitled to refer the original ?documents of the candidates claiming reservation for scrutiny and confirmation to the
following authorities.
(i) NCC
To the Director of NCC, Andhra Pradesh
(ii) Sports & Games
To the Vice-Chairman & Managing Director
Sports Authority of Andhra Pradesh (SAAP)
(iii) Physically Handicapped
To the Director, Medical and Health Services
Andhra Pradesh
(iv) Ex-Servicemen
To the Director, Sainik Welfare Board A.P.
(v) Scouts & Guides
Bharath Scouts & Guides, Hyderabad
(iv)
Reservation of Seats for Women - There shall be a reservation of 33 1/3% of seats in favour of Women candidates in
each category (OC/BC/ SC / ST/NCC/S&G/Sports/Ex-Servicemen/PH).
If sufficient number of women candidates are not available in some categories, these seats shall be diverted to the men
candidates of the same category.
The above reservation shall not be made applicable if the no women candidates selected on merit basis in each
category exceeds 33 1 /3%.
10.
Admission Process to fill up 55%/ 70% Seats in Un-aided/Aided Minority Pandit Training Colleges.
- The following transparent measures shall be followed for filling up the 55%/70% seats in un-aided/aided minority
Pandit Training Colleges.
(i)
The Director of School Education shall issue admission schedule to make admissions in Private Minority Pandit Training
Colleges. Subsequently, a notification shall be issued by the management in the local newspaper (at least in two
Newspapers) duly mentioning the number of seats to be filled inviting applications from the candidates eligible and
qualified in LPCET/LPCET-AC as per the option already exercised Copies of notification should be submitted to the
Page 6/8
----- PAGE 7 -----
Andhra Pradesh Language Pundits Training Colleges (Regulation of Admission) Rules, 2005
District Educational Officer concerned.
(ii)
The Managements of Minority Pandit Training Colleges shall supply application forms to the candidates in duplicate. The
list of certificates to be submitted along with the application should be mentioned clearly in the application form. The
application forms shall also indicate the CET option (LPCET/LPCET-AC) exercised by the Management.
(iii)
The Managements of Minority Pandit Training colleges shall also make application forms available in the concerned
District Educational Officer s Office.
(iv)
The candidates have to submit the original applications in the college and duplicate applications in the respective District
Educational Officer's Office.
(v)
Acknowledgement should be issued to the applicants by the management duly verifying whether the candidate has
submitted all the Certificates required along with the application and if any Certificate is not enclosed the candidate
should be advised to submit the application along with the required Certificate, which is not enclosed. In respect of the
applications submitted along with all the required Certificates acknowledgement should be given on the spot at the time
of submission instead of sending by post at a later date.
(vi)
After the last date for receipt of the applications the District Educational Officer's shall prepare the total list of all the
applicants and shall forward the appellations along with the list to the college under proper acknowledgement.
(vii)
The college shall prepare the merit list taking into account all the applications i.e. forwarded by the District Educational
Officer and also received in the college. The merit list has to be submitted to the DEO concerned who shall verify and
ensure that all the applications sent by him are included in the merit list.
(viii)
The merit list should be displayed at the college, District Educational Officer's office and also on www/aponline.gov.in by
the D.E.O. one week before the admission of the candidates in the following proforma.
Name of the Candidate with father's name
Community
Hall Ticket No in LPCET/PLCET-AC
LPCET Rank/ Marks
Minority Status Claimed
Reservations for special categories claimed, if
any
(ix)
Regarding admission of the candidates to the special categories i.e. NCC/ Scouts & Guides/Sports and Games/
Ex-Servicemen/PHC the certificates have to be got verified & confirmed by the respective authorities as mentioned in
these rules.
(ix)
regarding admission of the candidates to the special categories i.e. NCC,/ Scouts & Guides/Sports and Games/
Ex-Servicemen/PHC the certificate have to be got verified & confirmed by the respective authorities as mentioned in
these rules.
(x)
The minority status of the candidates should be determined as per the order issu ed by Minority Welfare Department
from time to time.
(xi)
The following aspects shall be verified by the District Educational Officer concerned before approving the list of
provisionally selected candidates for admission:-
(a)
Whether ment order has been followed.
(b)
Page 7/8
----- PAGE 8 -----
Andhra Pradesh Language Pundits Training Colleges (Regulation of Admission) Rules, 2005
Eligibility of candidates as per eligibility criteria laid down
(c)
Whether Rules of Reservation wherever applicable have been followed.
(xii)
The first list of candidates provisionally selected subject wise should be displayed on the notice board and also at the
office of the District Educational Officer and also made available on www.aponline.gov.in The candidates should be
informed telegraphically well in advance.
(xiii)
In case all the candidates selected have not reported for taking admission on the scheduled date the un-filled seats may
be filled up through 2nd & 3rd lists respectively as per rules strictly.
(xiv)
Even if in the 3rd list also if all the seats could not be filled they should be filled through spot admissions on the
scheduled date issued by the Regional Joint Director of School Education concerned duly producing the relevant
records.
(xv)
Management shall not reject the application on flimsy grounds or small rectifiable mistakes. Opportunity should be given
to the candidate for rectifying the mistakes.
The admissions made by all the managements under Management Seats i.e., 15%/55%/70% seats shall be got
approved by the Convenor, LPCET 2004 immediately after Counseling is completed duly submitting all the relevant
records as called for.
11.
Penalty for irregular admissions made by the Private Managements.
- In case, irregular admissions are made by the management without following eligible criteria and other admission rules
the following penalty shall be imposed on the Principal/Correspondent responsible for such irregular admissions and
actions can be taken.
(i)
Penal action would be initiated as per Section 9 of the Andhra Pradesh Educational Institutions (Regulation of admission
and prohibition of capitation fee) Act, 1983.
(ii)
The No Objection Certificate (NOC) issued to the society for establishment of the College will be withdrawn and thereby
the college looses its recognition granted by NCTE.
(iii)
In respect of Minority institutions Minority Welfare Department, my be recommended for withdrawal of the Minority status
of the Institution permanently.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 8/8