
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh Government Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions into Under-G...
Andhra Pradesh Government Professional Institutions (Regulation of
Admissions into Under-Graduate Medical and Dental Professional
Courses, 2004
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/40884087/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh Government Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions into Under-Graduate Medical and
Dental Professional Courses, 2004
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh Government Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions into Under-Graduate Medical and
Dental Professional Courses, 2004
Rule
ANDHRA-PRADESH-GOVERNMENT-PROFESSIONAL-INSTITUTIONS-REGULATION-OF-ADMISSIONS-INTO-UND
ER-GRADUATE-MEDICAL-AND-DENTAL-PROFESSIONAL-COURSES-2004 of 2004
Published on 30 June 2004
Commenced on 30 June 2004
[This is the version of this document from 30 June 2004.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Andhra Pradesh Government Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions into Under-Graduate Medical and
Dental Professional Courses, 2004
Published vide Notification No. G.O. Ms. No. 183, Health, Medical and Family Welfare (El), dated 30.6.2004
Page 1/9
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh Government Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions into Under-G...
Last Updated 16th September, 2019
No. G.O. Ms. No. 183. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 and 15 of the Andhra Pradesh Educational
Institutions (Regulation of Admission and Prohibition of Capitation Fee) Act, 1983 (A. P. Act
No. 5 of 1983
) and in supersession of the Andhra Pradesh Government Professional Institutions (Regulations of Admissions into
Under-Graduate Medical and Dental Professional Courses) Rules, 2003 issued in G.O. Ms No. 486, HM & FW (El)
Department, dated 5-9-2003, the Governor of Andhra Pradesh hereby makes the following Rules for admission into the
Under-Graduate Professional Courses in Medical and Dental in Government Professional Institutions in the State.
1.
Short title, applicability and commencement.
- (i) These rules may be called the Andhra Pradesh Government Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions into
Under-Graduate Medical and Dental Professional Courses, 2004.
(ii)
They shall apply to all Government Professional Institutions imparting Under-Graduate Professional Courses in Medical
and Dental Courses for which admissions shall be made to the "Competent Authority Seats" in such manner as
prescribed herein.
(iii)
These rules shall come into the force from the academic year 2004-2005.
2.
Definitions.
(1)
In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires:
(a)
"Act" means the Andhra Pradesh Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admission and Prohibition of Capitation Fee)
Act, 1983 (A.P. Act
No. 5 of 1983
).
(b)
"Common Entrance Test" means Eamcet, the examination conducted for assigning rank or merit to candidates, which
will be the basis for admission of the candidates into the first year of concerned under-Graduate Courses in various
Government Professional Institutions in the State.
(c)
"Competent Authority" means the Vice Chancellor, NTR University of Health Sciences, Vijayawada. Andhra Pradesh,
Vijayawada in respect Medical and Dental Courses.
(d)
"Committee for admissions" means the Committee nominated by the Competent Authority to select and make allotment
of candidates to Professional Institutions offering Medical and Dental Courses in the State for admissions in accordance
with the provisions laid down."
(e)
"Institutions" means, unless otherwise specifically mentioned, all the Government Professional Colleges imparting under
Graduate Professional Education in medical and dental courses.
(f)
"Local Area" means the territorial jurisdiction prescribed for identifying the local candidate.
(g)
"Local Candidate" means the candidate in relation to the local area as specified in Rule 9(B).
(h)
"Qualified candidate" in respect of seats to be filled by "Competent Authority" means the candidate who has appeared
for the Common Entrance Test for admission into the related Professional Course and has been assigned ranking in 'the
Common Merit List as per the Andhra Pradesh Common Entrance Test for entry in to Engineering, Architecture,
Pharmacy, Agriculture, Medical and Dental Courses Rules, 2004 issued in G.O.Ms.No. 16, Higher Education (EC)
Department, dated 25-02-2004.
Page 2/9
----- PAGE 3 -----
Andhra Pradesh Government Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions into Under-G...
(i)
"Qualifying Examination" means the examination of the minimum qualification prescribed, passing of which entitles one
to seek admission into the relevant Professional courses.
(j)
"University" means the NTR University of Health Sciences.
(2)
Words and expressions used but not defined in these rules shall have the same meaning assigned to them in the
Andhra Pradesh Educational Institutions Regulation of Admission and Prohibition of Capitation Fee Act, 1983 (A.P. Act
5 of 1983
) unless otherwise defined by Government in Health Medical and Family Welfare Department or by the Competent
Authority.
3.
Eligibility Criteria for Admission.
- Admission into various courses in different Professional Educational Institutions shall be governed by the rules of
admission prescribed here in. The Eligibility criteria for admission into Medical and Dental Courses shall be as
mentioned below:
(a)
Nationality and Domicile: The candidates should be Indian Nationals [or Persons of Indian Origin (PIO) / Overseas
Citizen of India (OCI) Card holders]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.O.Ms. No. 195, dated 7.7.2011 (w.e.f. 30.6.2004).]
and should satisfy Local, Non-local status requirement as laid down in the Andhra Pradesh Educational Institutions
(Regulation of Admission) Order, 1974 as amended in G.O. (P) No. 646 Education (W) Department, dated 10-07-1979.
(b)
Age Limit: Candidates should have completed the age of seventeen years on or before 31st December of the year of
admission.
[(c) Educational Qualifications: The candidate should have passed two years Intermediate examination (10+2 pattern) or
equivalent examination with Physics, Chemistry, Biology (Botany and Zoology) / Bio Technology and English individually
and must have obtained 50% marks taken together in Physics, Chemistry, Biology (Botany and Zoology) / Bio
Technology at the qualifying examination. In respect of candidates belonging to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled
Tribes & Backward Classes, the marks obtained shall be a minimum of 40% marks taken together in Physics,
Chemistry, Biology (Botany and Zoology) / Bio-technology.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.O.Ms. No. 195, dated 7.7.2011 (w.e.f. 30.6.2004).]
4.
Allotment of seats.
- These seats shall be filled up through counseling by the Competent Authority as per Merit/ranking following rules of
reservation from the students who have passed the common entrance test held by the State (EAMCET) for that year.
5.
Authority for Admission.
- All the Seats shall be fried by the Committee for Admissions nominated by the Competent Authority under these Rules.
6.
Procedure for admissions.
- (i) Committee for admissions shall be constituted by the Competent Authority under these rules.
(ii)
The Competent Authority shall issue an advertisement calling for a single application in the prescribed form from the
eligible qualified candidates who have been assigned ranking in the Common Entrance Test, desires of seeking
admission in Government Professional Colleges and Private Colleges in respect of seats to be filed by the Competent
Authority.
(iii)
The candidates who are qualified to seek admissions as a consequence of obtaining ranking in the Common Entrance
Test and desires of seeking admission into the Government Institutions shall make application to the Competent
Authority enclosing all the relevant documents including a copy of rank card issued. The application shall be
Page 3/9
----- PAGE 4 -----
Andhra Pradesh Government Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions into Under-G...
acknowledged.
(iv)
The Competent Authority shall scrutinize all the candidates received from the candidates, after scrutiny the competent
authority shall prepare the following merit list namely: -
(a)
Common Merit List: containing the names of all the candidates arranged in the order of merit ranking assigned to them
in the common entrance test.
(b)
Category wise Merit List: containing the names of the candidates belonging to the concerned categories as per rules of
reservation arranged in the order of merit ranking assigned to them in the common entrance test.
(c)
Minority category wise merit list: containing the names of the minority candidates concerned arranged in the order of
merit ranking assigned to them in the common entrance test.
(d)
In case of same rank being obtained by more than one candidate, the marks obtained in Physics, Chemistry, Botany
and Zoology shall be reckoned.
(e)
In case of a further tie, the older candidate shall be given the higher place in the merit list.
(v)
Candidates shall be called for an interview in the order of merit for selection and allotment of course and institution, in
transparent manner, duly displaying seat vacancy position from time to time during the course of counseling.
(a)
All the candidates called for interview shall submit the specified original documents along with one set of duly attested
photo-copies and the Committee for admissions shall be entitled to cause verification of all the documents produced by
the candidates.
(b)
As and when each candidate gets his turn for interview in the order of merit, choice of institutions and course shall be
given to him, depending upon availability at the point of time with due regard to the eligibility of the candidate for a seat
in a particular local area for a particular reserved category.
(c)
The selection of candidates and allotment of course/institutions in respect of the seats shall be solely on the basis of
merit as adjudged by the rank obtained in the Entrance Test subject to the condition that the candidate should have
passed the qualifying examination with the minimum marks prescribed.
(d)
Mere appearance at the Entrance Test and obtaining high rank in the merit list does not entitle a candidate to be
considered for admission automatically into any course/institution unless he/she also satisfies the rules and regulations
of admission prescribed by the concerned University/ Government including marks to be obtained in the qualifying
examination etc.
(vi)
The Committee of admissions shall select and allot candidates into various courses as per merit.
(vii)
Once a candidate secures admission to a particular college/institutions based on his/her option, no further claim for
admission into other college/ institution, to any other kind of seat or any other course will be entertained.
(viii)
The candidates selected for admission shall pay the prescribed fee in the form of demand draft drawn on any
nationalized bank in favour of Registrar, NTR University of Health Sciences payable at Vijayawada. If a candidate fails to
pay the fee on the day of selection, the selection will be cancelled forthwith and it will be filled up in the subsequent
selections/ counselling.
(ix)
The fee so collected shall be kept with the competent authority till the entire admission process is completed. As soon as
the admission process is completed, the fees so collected shall be transferred to the colleges concerned.
Page 4/9
----- PAGE 5 -----
Andhra Pradesh Government Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions into Under-G...
(x)
Candidates are considered for selection only for such categories for which they have claimed reservation in the
application form and have submitted supporting documents. Request for a change to any other category after
submission of application shall not be considered.
(xi)
The Selection shall be made only from among the candidates who physically present themselves when called in order of
merit. Claims of the candidates shall not be considered if they are absent when called thrice at the time of selection and
the next in the merit would be called.
(xii)
Resultant vacancies shall be open to all the candidates below the rank of candidates who have not joined the course
and the candidates who were absent in the earlier selection. Resultant vacancies shall be filled by the candidates
belonging to the same category of the seats as those who have not joined the course of vacated the seat.
(xiii)
The selection committee shall have the power to cancel the selection or admission of the candidates at any stage if it is
detected either during selection or before closure of admissions that the selection or admission is against the regulation.
(xiv)
The Competent Authority/Committee for admissions shall prepare the final list of candidates, admitted course-wise and
send the same to University.
(xv)
The Competent Authority in consultation with Committee for admission shall fix the cut off dates for each stage of
admission contemplated above.
7.
Exercise of option.
- The option once exercised by the candidate for a seat is final.
8.
Cut off date for admission.
- The Competent Authority, shall close the admission process on such date as notifies by the Competent Authority that
is NTR University of Health Sciences.
9.
Rules of Reservation for Admission.
- Seats shall be reserved for the following categories in admissions to professional courses.
(1)
Region-wise reservation of seats:
(a)
Admission to 85% of the seats in each course shall be reserved for the local candidates and the remaining 15% of the
seats shall be un-reserved seats as specified in the Andhra Pradesh Educational Institutions (Regulations and
Admissions) Order, 1974 as subsequently amended.
(b)
In respect of State wide Institutions, admissions into 85% of seats in each course shall be reserved for candidates
belonging to the three local areas in the State in this subrule namely, Andhra University Area (Andhra), Osmania
University Area (Telangana) and Sri Venkateswara University area (Rayalaseema) in the ratio of 42:36:22 respectively
and the balance of 15% seats shall be unreserved seats:
Explanation for purpose of these Rules:
(i)
"The Local Areas" means:
(a)
The part of the State comprising the Districts of Adilabad, Hyderabad (Including Twin Cities) Rangareddy, Karimnagar,
Khammam, Medak, Mahaboob-nagar, Nalgonda, Nizamabad and Warangal shall be regarded as the Osmania
University Local Area (Telangana).
(b)
The part of the State comprising the Districts of Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Vishakhapatnam, East Godavari, West
Page 5/9
----- PAGE 6 -----
Andhra Pradesh Government Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions into Under-G...
Godavari, Krishna, Guntur and Prakasam shall be regarded as the Andhra University Local Area (Andhra).
(c)
The part of the State comprising the Districts of Ananthapur, Kurnool, Chittoor, Cuddapah and Nellore shall be regarded
as the Sri Venkateswara University Local Area (Rayalaseema).
(ii)
"The Local Candidate" means:
(A)
A candidate for admission shall be regarded as a local candidate in relation to a local area.
(a)
If he has studied in educational institutions in such local area for a period of not less than four consecutive academic
years ending with the academic year in which he appeared or as the case may be. first appeared in the relevant
qualifying examination.
OR
(b)
Where, during the whole or any part of the four consecutive academic years ending with the academic year in which he
appeared or as the case may be first appeared for the relevant qualifying examination, he has not studied in any
Educational Institutions, if he has resided in that local area for a period of not less than four years immediately preceding
the date of commencement of the relevant qualifying examination which he appeared or as the case may be first
appeared.
(B)
A Candidate for admission to the course who is not regarded as local candidate under clause (A) in relation to any local
area shall:-
(a)
If he has studied in Educational Institutions in the State for a period of not less than seven consecutive academic years
ending with the academic year in which he appeared or as the case may be first appeared for the relevant qualifying
examination be regarded as a local candidate in relation to...........
(i)
Such local area where he has studied for the maximum period out of said period of seven years;
OR
(ii)
Where the period of his study in two or more local areas are equal, such local area, where he has studied lasting such
equal period.
OR
(b)
If, during the whole or any part of seven consecutive academic years ending with the academic year in which he
appeared or as case may be first appeared for the relevant qualifying examination he has not studied in the Educational
Institutions in a local area but has resided in the State during the whole of the said period of seven years, be regarded
as a local candidate in relation to..........
(i)
Such local area where he has resided for the maximum period out of the said period of seven years
OR
(ii)
Where the periods of his residence in two or more local areas are equal, such local area where he has resided last in
such equal periods.
(C)
The following categories of candidates are eligible to apply for admission to the remaining 15% of un-reserved seats:
(a)
All the candidates eligible to be declared as local candidates.
(b)
Candidates who have resided in the State for a total period of 10 years excluding periods of study outside the State or
either of whose parent have resided in the State for a total period of ten years excluding period of employment outside
Page 6/9
----- PAGE 7 -----
Andhra Pradesh Government Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions into Under-G...
the State.
(c)
Candidates who are children of parents who are in employment of the State or Central Government, Public Sector
Corporations. Local Bodies, Universities and Educational Institutions other similar quasi Public Institutions within the
State.
(d)
Candidates who are spouses of those in the employment of the State or Central Government, Public Sector
Corporations, Local Bodies, Universities and Educational Institutions recognized by the Government or University Or
other Competent Authority and similar quasi Government Institutions within the State.
(D)
If a local candidate in respect of a local area is not available to fill any seat reserved or allocated in favour of a local
candidate in respect of that local area, such seat shall be filled if it had not been reserved.
Note. - For details, see the Andhra Pradesh Educational Institutions (Regulations of Admission) Order, 1974 as
subsequently amended.
(2)
Reservation of seats for SC/ST/BC Communities:
(a)
15% of seats in each course shall be reserved for the candidates belonging to Scheduled Caste as shown below:
SC - A
...
1%
SC - B
...
7%
SC - C
...
6%
SC - D
...
1%
(b)
6% of the seats in each course shall be reserved for the candidates belonging to Scheduled Tribes as shown below:
The seats reserved for Scheduled Tribes shall be made available to Scheduled Castes and Vice-Versa, if qualified
candidates are not available in the category.
If qualified candidates belongs to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes communities are not available, the left over
seats reserved for them shall be treated as open competition seats and shall be filled by the candidates of General pool.
(c)
25% seats in each course shall be reserved for the candidates belonging to the Backward Classes and shall be
allocated among the four groups of Backward Classes as shown below:
Group 'A'
...
7%
Group 'B'
...
10%
Group 'C'
...
1%
Group 'D'
...
7%
Page 7/9
----- PAGE 8 -----
Andhra Pradesh Government Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions into Under-G...
If qualified candidates belonging to Backward Classes of a particular group are not available, the left over seats can be
adjusted for the candidates of next group. If qualified candidates belonging to Backward classes are not available to fill
up the 25% seats reserved for them, the left over seats shall be treated as open competition seats and shall be filled up
with candidates of General Pool.
(d)
No candidate seeking reservation for admission under the above categories be allowed to participate in the Counselling
for admission unless he produces the Integrated Community Certificate prescribed by the Government and issued by
the Revenue Authorities in the Government (Vide G.O.Ms.No. 58, Social Welfare (J) Department, dated 12-05-1997).
(3)
Reservation for Special Categories:
(a)
Seats shall be reserved in each course for the following categories, to the extent indicated against them:
(i)
Physically Handicapped ... 3% (*)
(ii)
National Cader Corps ... 1/4% (0.25%)
(iii)
Games and Sports ... 1/2%(0.50%)
(*) Note: 3% Reservation provided to Physically Handicapped with the locomotory disorders and that too with disability
of lower limbs between 50% to 70%, as per the instructions of Govt, of India Lr.F.No.U. 12021 /8/2002-MEC/ ME.Ill,
dated 12-05-2004 under Disabilities (Equal Opportunities, Protection of Rights and Full Participation) Act, 1995.
(iv)
1% for he Children of Ex-servicemen and serving service personnel of the three wings of the Defence Services i.e.,
Army, Navy and Airforce, subject to the condition that the Ex-service men etc., are residing for a minimum of five years
in Andhra Pradesh, provided that if suitable candidates are not available equivalent to fulfill the above reservation, the
condition of five years minimum period of residence shall not be insisted upon.
(b)
The priorities in respect of the categories mentioned in item (a)
(i)
NCC   ...
(ii)
Sports & Games   ...
(iii)
Physically Handicapped   ...
(iv)
CAP  ...
(4)
Reservation of seats for women:
33.
? % of seats are guaranteed for women candidates in each category. If women candidates are selected on merit in each
category such candidates will not be reckoned against the reservation made for women candidates 33 ?%. When the
number of women candidates falls short of this percentage, it shall be made up replacing the last selected male
candidate by women candidate in that category.
(5)
Reservation of Anglo-Indian:
One seat shall be reserved in MBBS course for Anglo-Indians. The candidate shall produce certificate in support of
his/her claim in the prescribed proforma issued by the Mandal Revenue Officer, subject to scrutiny and confirmation by
the Secretary, Department of Minority Welfare, Government of Andhra Pradesh.
10.
Fees for Govt. Medical and Dental Colleges.
- (i) Fee for Government Medical Colleges: The fee in the Government Medical above as declared by the Government
Page 8/9
----- PAGE 9 -----
Andhra Pradesh Government Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions into Under-G...
vide G.O.Ms.No. 254 HM & FW (El) Department, dated 28-04-1993 and subsequent amendments thereto from time to
time.
Note. - The candidates claiming reservation benefits under the above categories shall produce original documents in
support of their claim to the Committee for Admissions and he shall be entitled to refer the original documents of the
candidates claiming reservation for scrutiny and confirmation to the following authorities:
To the Director of NCC, Andhra Pradesh
To the Vice-Chairman and Managing Director, Sports Authority of Andhra Pradesh (SAAP)
To the Medical Board Constituted by the Competent Authority.
To the Director, Sainik Welfare Department, Andhra Pradesh.
Colleges shall be Rs. 10,000/-(Rupees ten thousand only) of which Rs. 3,000/- (Rupees three thousand only) shall be
debited to the College Development Society. The fee shall be paid every year for five years.
(ii)
Fee for Dental Colleges: The fee in the Government Dental Colleges shall be Rs. 9,000/- (Rupees nine thousand only)
of which Rs. 3,000/- (Rupees three thousand only) shall be credited to the College Development Society. The fee shall
be paid every year for four year.
(iii)
The fee structure of the course may be reviewed once in three years by the Government.
(iv)
The candidates selected and admitted into Professional Courses shall pay the fee as prescribed by the University
towards the fee payable to the University, which is non-refundable.
11.
[ Compulsory Rural Service.
[Added by Notification No. G.O.Ms. No. 166, dated 20.7.2010 (w.e.f. 30.6.2004).]
- The compulsory rural Medical / Dental service for MBBS/BDS candidates admitted from the academic year 2010-11
onwards shall be for a period of one year, immediately following the successful completion of the MBBS / BDS including
the completion of house-surgeoncy. The candidates shall be called as "Junior Residents" during the period of 1 year of
rural service.
(i)
On successful completion of the one year rural medical / dental service, the candidate will be eligible for a permanent
registration with And lira Pradesh Medical Council.
(ii)
A consolidated remuneration @ 150% of the stipend payable to house surgeons in 2015 for Junior Residents rendering
compulsory rural medical / dental service in the rural areas and 175% of the stipend payable to house surgeons in 2015
for Junior Residents rendering compulsory rural medical / dental service in the tribal areas shall be paid.
(iii)
Junior Residents shall be posted to work for one year in the Public Health Centers/ Community Health Centers in
various districts, following a transparent system of seeking 5 options and making the allotments strictly based on the
merit at the MBBS / BDS examination.
(iv)
The administrative supervision for the candidates shall be with the District Health Administration and the academic
supervision over the candidates shall be the responsibility of the college from where the candidates has graduated. To
the extent feasible, the academic supervision shall be conducted through online system so as to minimize the workload
on the colleges.]
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 9/9