
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh Un-aided Non-Minority Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions i...
Andhra Pradesh Un-aided Non-Minority Professional Institutions
(Regulation of Admissions into Post Graduate Medical and Dental
Professional Courses) Rules, 2003
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/66190754/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh Un-aided Non-Minority Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions into Post Graduate Medical
and Dental Professional Courses) Rules, 2003
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh Un-aided Non-Minority Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions into Post Graduate Medical
and Dental Professional Courses) Rules, 2003
Rule
ANDHRA-PRADESH-UN-AIDED-NON-MINORITY-PROFESSIONAL-INSTITUTIONS-REGULATION-OF-ADMISSIONS-
INTO-POST-GRADUATE-MEDICAL-AND-DENTAL-PROFESSIONAL-COURSES-RULES-2003 of 2003
Published on 28 January 2004
Commenced on 28 January 2004
[This is the version of this document from 28 January 2004.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Andhra Pradesh Un-aided Non-Minority Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions into Post Graduate Medical
and Dental Professional Courses) Rules, 2003
Published vide Notification No. G.O. Ms. No 36, Health, Medical & Family welfare (E-2), dated 28th January, 2004
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh Un-aided Non-Minority Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions i...
Last Updated 18th August, 2019
No. G.O. Ms. No 36. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sections 3 and 15 of the Andhra Pradesh Educational
Institutions (Regulation of Admission and Prohibition of Capitation Fee) Act. 1983 (A. P. Act
No. 5 of 1983
) the Governor of Andhra Pradesh hereby makes the following Rules for admission into the Graduate Professional
Courses in Medical and Dental in Un-aided Non-Minority Professional Institutions in the State:
1.
Short title, applicability and commencement.
- (i) These rules may be called the Andhra Pradesh Un-aided Non-Minority Professional Institutions (Regulation of
Admissions into Post Graduate Medical and Dental Professional Courses) Rules, 2003.
(ii)
They shall apply to all Un-aided Non-Minority Professional Institutions imparting Post Graduate Professional Education
in Medical and Dental courses for which admissions shall be made to the "Competent authority seats", and
"Management seats" in such manner as prescribed herein.
(iii)
These Rules shall come into force from the academic year 2003-2004.
Definitions. - 1. In these rules, unless the context otherwise, requires:
(i)
"Act" means the Andhra Pradesh Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admission and Prohibition of Capitation Fee)
Act, 1983 (A.P.Act
No. 5 of 1983
).
(ii)
"Competent Authority" means the Vice-Chancellor, NTR University of Health Sciences, Andhra Pradesh, Vijayawada.
(iii)
"Committee for Admissions" means the Committee nominated by the Competent Authority to select and make allotment
of candidates to Professional Institutions offering P.G. Medical and Dental Courses in the State for Admissions in
accordance with the rules laid down.
(iv)
"Common Entrance Test" means, the examination conducted by NTR UHS for assigning rank or merit to candidates,
which will be the basis for admission of the candidates into the Post Graduate Courses concerned in various Un-aided
Non-Minority Professional Institutions in the State.
(v)
"Competent Authority Seats" means the seats earmarked from out of the sanctioned intake of seats in each course and
in each college to be filled by the Committee for Admissions.
(vi)
"Management Seats" means the seats earmarked from out of the sanctioned intake of seats in each course to be filled
by the Management of the Unaided Non-Minority Professional Institutions in such manner as may be prescribed by the
Government or by the Committee of admissions constituted by the competent authority.
(vii)
"Inspecting Authority" means the Authority appointed by the Competent Authority for inspecting and scrutinising the
Admissions of the candidates made in the Un-aiued Non-Minority Professional Institutions.
(viii)
"Institutions" means, unless otherwise specifically mentioned, all the Un-aided Non-Minority Professional Institutions
imparting Professional Education in Medical and Dental courses.
(ix)
"Local Area" means the territorial jurisdiction prescribed for identifying the local candidate.
(x)
"Local Candidate" means the candidate in relation to the local area as specified in Presidential Order.
(xi)
"Qualified Candidate" in respect of seats to be filled by the 'Competent Authority' means the candidate who has
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
Andhra Pradesh Un-aided Non-Minority Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions i...
appeared for the Entrance Test for Post Graduate course admission and has been assigned ranking in the Common
merit list.
(xii)
"Qualifying Examination" means the examination of the minimum qualification prescribed which entitles one to seek
admission into the relevant Professional Post Graduate Course.
(xiii)
Rule of reservation as defined by Social Welfare Department.
2.
Words and expressions used but not defined in these rules shall have the same meaning as assigned to them in the
Andhra Pradesh Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admission and Prohibition of capitation fee) Act, 1983 (Act
No. 5 of 1983
) unless otherwise defined by the Government in Health Medical and Family Welfare Department or by the Competent
Authority.
3.
Allotment of seats.
- The seats to be allotted in each Un-aided Non-Minority Professional Institution under these Rules for Admission of
Candidates shall be classified as:
(i)
"Competent Authority Seats" (50% of the sanctioned in take of the seats): - These seats shall be filled up by the
Competent Authority, duly following the A.P.Private Medical/Dental Colleges (Admissions into Post Graduate
Medical/Dental Courses) Rules, 2003, and as amended from time to time.
(ii)
"Management Seats" (50% of the sanctioned intake of the seats) : - 50% of seats shall be reserved for allotment by the
Management. The seats shall be filled by the Committee on admissions of the competent authority based on merit in the
entrance test held by the NTR UHS for that year and with candidates who have applied to the Colleges/Institutions
concerned for admission. In the Committee a representative of the managements of the Colleges concerned, will be a
Member Allotment of 50% of management seats will be done by this Joint Committee purely on the basis of merit in the
entrance test.
4.
Allotment of seats on rotation basis.
- If only one seat is sanctioned in the first year, this seat will go to the Management. The next year this seat will go to the
Competent Authority quota. Similarly, if one seat is approved for Degree and one seat for diploma in the same college,
in the first year, the degree course will go to the Management and diploma course will go to the Competent Authority.
Next year it will be vice-versa. If there are 3 seats sanctioned or any other odd number, an equal number of seats will go
to the Management and Competent Authority quotas and the odd seat will rotate between the Management quota and
Government quota every year.
5.
[ Un-filled seats.
[Substituted by Notification No. G.O.Ms. 183, dated 21.5.2008 (w.e.f. 28.1.2004).]
- The Registrar, Dr. NTR University of Health Sciences shall surrender the unfilled competent authority seats in
P.G.Medical and Dental Course after final counseling to the private un-aided Non-Minority Medical and Dental Colleges
who in turn will fill them after notifying the vacancies and providing adequate time for candidates to seek a seat in the
colleges.]
6.
Authority for Admissions. - (i) Competent Authority Seats (50% of the sanctioned in take of the seats): - These seats
shall be filled by the Committee for Admissions appointed by the "Competent Authority" under these Rules.
(ii)
Management Seats (50% of the total intake of the seats): - These seats shall be filled by the committee constituted by
the Managements of all the private Un-aided Non-minority Professional Colleges/Institution(s) as per the rules laid down
or by the committee of admissions constituted by the competent authority.
7.
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
Andhra Pradesh Un-aided Non-Minority Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions i...
Service Seats.
- Service seats will be offered at Private College as per the service quota rules of State Government. In-service
candidate will draw salary from his/her parent Department. The in-service candidate will however pay the tuition fee as
any other non-service student is paying to the Private College.
8.
Fees Structure.
-
(i)
Competent Authority seats: -
(a) Clinical P.G. Degree or Diploma Courses(b) Para Clinical P.G. Degree/Diploma Courses(c) Non-clinical P.G.
Degree/Diploma Courses
Per annumRs. 2,75,00/-Rs. 75,000/-Rs. 25,000/-
(ii)
Management seats. - These seats will be filled by the Management. No specific fee is suggested by the Government.
The Management of the Institution concerned shall fix a reasonable fee, taking into consideration the recurring and
non-recurring expenditure.
Note. - This fees stricture is applicable for the admissions of this present academic year only. From the next academic
year onwards the orders of Supreme Court will have to be implemented, wherein Committees headed by retired Judges
will go into the entire issue of fixing of fee.
9.
Capitation fees.
- The Management shall not charge any Capitation fee or resort to collect any other amount in any form, other than fixed
under rule 8(i).
10.
Procedure to regulate, in case the 50% ceiling exceeds.
- If the admission to a course in a Private Medical/Dental College exceeds 50% of the management quota for any
reason beyond the control the Management of the said College/Institute, such as by instructions of a Court Order, then
the management shall surrender an equal number of seats from its management quota to the Government quota for the
next year. The surrender of seats shall however, be from the same course (for example: If the management of a Private
Medical/Dental College has to appoint any candidate beyond its quota of 50% by instructions of a Court Order in a
Course to any student, it shall surrender a seat out of its 50% quota to the Government quota in the next academic
year).
11.
Stipend.
- No stipend will be paid to the P.G. students admitted in private Medical/Dental Colleges, by the Management. The
Management also shall not collect any amount as one time lumpsum stipend fee. They will be non-stipendary seats.
However, students of in-service quota shall be eligible to get the stipend as per the existing rules of Government.
12.
Submission of Bond by P.G. Student.
- The Post Graduate student admitted shall give a bond to the Management for payment of total course fee of two/three
years, if he/ she discontinues the course midstream.
13.
Cut off date for admissions.
- The Competent Authority, the Committee of Private Un-aided Non-Minority management ofthe concerned Private
Colleges shall close the admission process on such date as notified by the Competent Authority i.e. NTR UHS.
Subsequent to this date no admissions in the Private Unaided Professional Institutions shall be made.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4