
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh Physical Education Conduct of Common Entrance Test for admission into Bache...
Andhra Pradesh Physical Education Conduct of Common Entrance
Test for admission into Bachelor of Physical Education (B.P.Ed.) and
Under Graduation Diploma in Physical Education Courses Rules,
2004
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/162158209/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh Physical Education Conduct of Common Entrance Test for admission into Bachelor of Physical
Education (B.P.Ed.) and Under Graduation Diploma in Physical Education Courses Rules, 2004
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh Physical Education Conduct of Common Entrance Test for admission into Bachelor of Physical
Education (B.P.Ed.) and Under Graduation Diploma in Physical Education Courses Rules, 2004
Rule
ANDHRA-PRADESH-PHYSICAL-EDUCATION-CONDUCT-OF-COMMON-ENTRANCE-TEST-FOR-ADMISSION-INTO-
BACHELOR-OF-PHYSICAL-EDUCATION-B-P-ED-AND-UNDER-GRADUATION-DIPLOMA-IN-PHYSICAL-EDUCATIO
N-COURSES-RULES-2004 of 2004
Published on 12 February 2004
Commenced on 12 February 2004
[This is the version of this document from 12 February 2004.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Page 1/11
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh Physical Education Conduct of Common Entrance Test for admission into Bache...
Andhra Pradesh Physical Education Conduct of Common Entrance Test for admission into Bachelor of Physical
Education (B.P.Ed.) and Under Graduation Diploma in Physical Education Courses Rules, 2004
Published vide Notification No. G.O.Ms.No. 164, Education (Trg. 2), 17.11.2004
Last Updated 12th September, 2019
G.O.Ms.No. 164. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 and 15 of the Andhra Pradesh Educational
Institutions (Regulation of Admission and Prohibition of Capitation Fee) Act, 1983 (Andhra Pradesh Act No. 5 of 1983
and in supersession of the Andhra Pradesh Colleges of Physical Education Admissions through Common Entrance Test
Rules, 2003 issued in G.O.Ms.No. 24, Education Department dated 12-02-2004, the Governor of Andhra Pradesh
hereby makes the following Rules for the conduct of Common Entrance Tests for Admission into Bachelor of Physical
Education (B.P.Ed.) and Under Graduate Diploma in Physical Education (U.G.D.P. Ed.) Courses. Offered in Colleges of
Physical Education in State of A.P.
1.
Short title applicability and Commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called "the Andhra Pradesh Physical Education Conduct of Common Entrance Test for admission
into Bachelor of Physical Education (B.P.Ed.) and Under Graduation Diploma in Physical Education Courses Rules,
2004".
(2)
They shall apply for Admission into Bachelor of Physical Education (B.P.Ed.) and Under Graduation Diploma in Physical
Education Courses offered by the Colleges of Physical Education in the State.
(3)
They shall come into force with immediate effect.
(4)
Rules of Admission in the above courses in Physical Education shall be issued separately.
2.
Definitions.
(1)
In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires;
(i)
"Act" means the Andhra Pradesh Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admission and prohibition of capitation fee) Act
of 1983 (Andhra Pradesh Act No. 5 of 1983).
(ii)
"Association of Colleges" means the Association of Colleges formed for the purpose of conducting Physical Education
Common Entrance Test referred to in Clause (XII) and recognised by the Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher
Education consisting of Management representatives for which the eligibility criteria is as mentioned in Rules, 3.
(iii)
"Chairperson" means the Vice-Chancellor of any University in the State nominated by the Chairperson of the Andhra
Pradesh State Council of Higher Education for each academic year for conducting and discharging the functions relating
to Physical Education Common Entrance Test (PECET) held by the State. He/She shall also be the Chairperson of the
CET Committee.
(iv)
"Committee of PECET" means the Committee empowered to conduct PECET and to prepare the merit list of the
candidates as per the marks obtained in the PECET for admission into Convener Seats and also management Seats in
Colleges of Physical Education which agree to make Admissions into Bachelor of Physical Education (B.P.Ed.)/ Under
Graduation Diploma in Physical Education (U.G.D.P.Ed.) Course based on ranking in PECET.
(v)
Committee of PECET-AC means the Committee empowered by the Association of Colleges to conduct PECET-AC for
Admission into Bachelor of Physical Education (B.P.Ed.) and Under Graduation Diploma in Physical Education
(U.G.D.P.Ed.) Courses and to prepare the merit list of the candidates as per the marks obtained in the above test for
admission into Management seats in B.P.Ed. and U.G.D.P.Ed. Courses, subject to the supervision of Permanent
Committee.
Page 2/11
----- PAGE 3 -----
Andhra Pradesh Physical Education Conduct of Common Entrance Test for admission into Bache...
(vi)
"Competent Authority" means the Chairperson of the Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education.
(vii)
"Convener" means a person, not below the rank of a Professor or Head of Department of Physical Education of a
University, appointed by the Competent Authority in consultation with Chairperson for conducting the Physical Education
Common Entrance Test and performing such other functions relating to the said test as entrusted to him by the
Competent Authority.
(viii)
"Convener Seats" means the seats earmarked from out of the sanctioned Intake of seats in each institution to be filled
by the Convener.
(ix)
"Management Seats" means the seats earmarked from out of the sanctioned intake of seats to be filled by the
management of the Private Un-Aided Colleges of Physical Education including the Management seats earmarked for
concerned Minority candidates in Minority Colleges offering Bachelor of Physical Education (C.B.P.Ed) and Under
Graduation Diploma in Physical Education (U.G.D.P.Ed) Courses.
(x)
"Permanent Committee" means the Committee constituted y the Government.
(xi)
"Physical Education Common Entrance Test" (herein after called PECET) means test conducted for assigning rank by
merit to the candidates which will be the basis for entry into Bachelor of Physical Education (B.P.Ed) and under
Graduation Diploma in Physical Education (U.G.D.P.Ed.) Courses.
(xii)
"Physical Education Common Entrance Test of Association of Colleges", (herein after called PECET-AC) means the
Test conducted by Association of all Colleges for assigning merit ranking to Candidates which shall be the basis for
admission of candidates to the extent of seats provided for the managements of Colleges of physical Education in the
State offering Bachelor of Physical Education (B.P.Ed) and Under Graduation Diploma in Physical Education
(U.G.D.P.Ed) Courses.
(xiii)
"Qualified Candidate" means a candidate who appeared for the Physical Education Common Entrance Test (PECET) /
Physical Education Common Entrance Test-Association of Colleges (PECET-AC) and had been assigned rank in the
common merit list and has eligibility as per the criteria laid under Rule 3.
(xiv)
"Qualifying Education" means the examination of the minimum qualification prescribed, appearance or passing as laid
down under Rule 3.
(xv)
"State Council" means the Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education constituted under Andhra Pradesh State
Council of Higher Education Act, 1988 (Andhra Pradesh Act 16 of 1988).
(xvi)
"University" means the University concerned in which the particular courses are offered.
2. Words and Expressions used but not defined in these rules shall have the same meaning assigned to them under the
Andhra Pradesh Educational Institution (Regulation of Admission and Prohibition of Capition fee) Act, 1983 (Andhra
Pradesh Act 5 of 1983).
3.
Eligibility for appearing to the PECET/PECET-AC.
- Candidates satisfying the following requirements shall be eligible to appear for PECET/PECET-AC.
(i)
Candidates should be of Indian Nationality.
(ii)
Candidates should belong to the State of Andhra Pradesh. The candidates should satisfy local/non-local status
requirements as laid down in the Andhra Pradesh Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admission) Order, 1974, as
subsequently amended.
Page 3/11
----- PAGE 4 -----
Andhra Pradesh Physical Education Conduct of Common Entrance Test for admission into Bache...
(A)
For Bachelor of Physical Education Course. - (i) Candidates should have passed the three year Bachelor Degree
examination in any faculty (10 plus 2 plus 3 pattern) or any examination recognized as equivalent thereto by the
Universities in Andhra Pradesh. However, the candidates who appeared for the final year degree examination are also
eligible to appear for the test but such candidates should produce the pass certificate at the time of admission.
(ii)
Age Limit.  - Candidates should have completed 19 years of age on the date of commencement of admissions as
announced by the Entrance Test Committee or on such other date as may be notified by the Entrance Test Committee.
There is no upper age limit;
(B)
For Under Graduation Diploma in Physical Education Course.  - (i) Educational Qualifications. - Candidates seeking
admission should have acquired any one of the following educational qualifications. Those who appear for the final year
of the qualifying examination are also eligible to appear for the test. However such candidates should produce the pass
certificate at the time of admission.
(a)
2-year Intermediate Course (1) plus 2 Pattern).
(b)
Intermediate Vocational Course in any field Conducted by the Board of Intermediate Education, Andhra Pradesh;>
OR
(c)
Any other examination recognized as equivalent to the above examinations by the respective bodies in Andhra Pradesh.
(ii)
Age Limit.  - Candidates should have completed 16 years of age on the date of commencement of admissions as
announced by the Entrance Test Committee or on such other date as may be notified by the Entrance Test Committee
there is no upper age limit.
(C)
In Service Candidates - In the case of in service Physical Education Teacher's (PET's) candidates for admission to
B.P.Ed. Course only length of service is the main criterion. They need not appear for any Entrance Test but only a
limited number of candidates to be nominated by Director of School Education each year for each course.
4.
Scheme for the Conduct of PECET.
- The Common Entrance Test for admission into the Bachelor of Physical Education and Under Graduate Diploma in
Physical Education. The Entrance Test for admission of students into these courses shall consist of two parts, namely,
(i)
Physical Efficiency Test and
(ii)
Skill test in Games.
They shall be conducted as follows;
1. Physical Efficiency Test: Maximum 400
marks.- for each of the events marks shall be awarded
taking into account the conversion tables approved by the PECET
Committee.
For Men Candidates
For Women candidates
(a) Compulsory events (No Option)
(a) Compulsory events (No Option)
(i) 100 meters run 100 Marks
(ii) Putting the shot 100 Marks (6 Kgs.)
(iii) 800 meters run 100 Marks
(i) 100 meters run 100 Marks
(ii) Putting the shot 100 Marks (4 Kgs.)
Page 4/11
----- PAGE 5 -----
Andhra Pradesh Physical Education Conduct of Common Entrance Test for admission into Bache...
(iii) 400 meters run 100 Marks
(b) with option to choose any one of the
(b) with option to choose any one of the events events
(iv) Broad Jump/100 Marks High Jump
(iv) Broad Jump/100 Marks High Jump
2. Skill Test in Games: Maximum 100 marks:The skills of the candidate
shall be tested in any one game of the following:
(i) Foot ball
(ii) Basketball
(iii) Volleyball
(iv) Hockey
(v) Cricket '
(vi) Tennis
(vii) Badminton
(Shuttle or Ball Badminton)
(viii) Kabaddi
(ix) Kho-Kho
(x) Handball
5.
Scheme for award of incentive marks: Maximum 100 marks.
- The candidates possessing the following distinctions and additional qualifications with the certificates issued by the
authorities/bodies mentioned shall be entitled to additional incentive marks as mentioned against each category and
these marks shall be added to the marks scored in PECET i.e. 4(1) and 4(2) above:
Category
Sport Distinction/ Participation
Certificate issuing authority
Marks
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
I.
Representing the Country in International Sports
international meets approved by the respective
Federations/Sports Associations/Sports Authorities.
International Sports
Association / Federation
or
All India Sports Association / Federation
affiliated to Indian Olympic Association
100 Marks
II.
Medal/Place/at
National level meets
or
Inter
University Meets
or
School Game
Nationals
All India Sports
Page 5/11
----- PAGE 6 -----
Andhra Pradesh Physical Education Conduct of Common Entrance Test for admission into Bache...
Federation/ All India Sports
Association
affiliated to Indian Olympic Association
or
Association
of Indian Universities
or
School Games
Federation of India
First Position : 75
Marks Second
Position: 50 Marks
Third Position : 30 Marks
III.
Participation at
National level meets
or
Inter University
Meets
or
School Game Nationals
or
All India Sports
Federation/All India Sports Associations affiliated to Indian
Olympic Association
or
State Association
or
Universities
or
School Games
Federations of India
25 Marks
IV.
Medal/Place at the
state/inter District Sports
or
State School Games
State
Association/State School
Games Association
First Position: 20 Marks Second Position : 15
Marks Third Position: 10 Marks
V.
Medal/Place in University inter Zonal
competitions/Inter Collegiate tournaments
University
First Position: 20 Marks Second Position : 15
Marks Third Position: 10 Marks
VI.
Passed one year
Page 6/11
----- PAGE 7 -----
Andhra Pradesh Physical Education Conduct of Common Entrance Test for admission into Bache...
course of NIS
or
One year Diploma in
Yoga/Sports Management/Sports Science/Sports Journalism/Olympic
Education.
or
One year U.G.D.P.Ed.
Basic Course in Adventure Sports.
NSNIS
or
University
or
Institution
5 Marks
VII.
Acquired NCC - "C"
certificate
In case of U.G.D.P.Ed. candidates NCC - "B"
certificate
The Director of NCC, A.P.
5 Marks
Note. - (1) Only the games and sports events which are included in the latest Sports calendar of the School Games
Federation of India/Association of Indian Universities will be considered for awarding incentive marks.
(2)
Candidate's merit certificates of highest level of participation/ achievement will be considered to place them in any one of
the above seven categories. Candidate will not be considered for more than one category for award of incentive marks.
(3)
National level meets include National games, Senior Nationals, Junior Nationals, sub-junior Nationals and Mini
Nationals.
6.
Physical Education Common Entrance Test (PECET).
(1)
The PECET shall be conduct by the Convenor, appointed by the competent authority and shall be held on such date and
center(s) as may be specified by State Council in consultation with the PECET Committee.
(2)
The Convenor of PECET shall give a notification in the widely circulated daily News Papers as decided by CET
Committee calling for the applications in the prescribed form from the candidates satisfying eligibility criteria as laid down
in rule 3.
(3)
The notification, among other things, shall indicate the Cost of application, Registration fee and Entrance Test Fee, the
last date for receipt of the duly filled in applications and the date of conduct of PECET.
(4)
The Date of the entrance test as notified above shall not be revised without the prior approval of the Government.
(5)
The qualifying marks in the PECET shall be 30% of the aggregate marks obtained in the actual Test Items i.e. Physical
Efficiency Test of400 marks and Skill Test in Games of 100 Marks. (Total of 500 Marks) (excluding incentive marks)
provided that there shall be no minimum qualifying marks for the candidates belonging to the category of Scheduled
Caste and Scheduled Tribes.
(6)
There shall be no re-totalling, revaluation or Personal identification of Response sheets (Answer Scripts) of the Entrance
Test.
Page 7/11
----- PAGE 8 -----
Andhra Pradesh Physical Education Conduct of Common Entrance Test for admission into Bache...
(7)
Mere appearance at the Entrance Test does not automatically entitle a candidate to be considered for admission into
Physical Education Courses unless the candidate satisfies the requirement of eligibility as laid down under Rule 3 and
other criteria laid down in the Rules for Admission that shall be issued separately.
(8)
If any ambiguity or doubt arises in the interpretation or implementation of any of the rules, the decision of Chairperson
shall be final.
7.
Preparation of the Merit List and assigning rank for PECET.
-  The Convenor shall follow the following rules in preparing the merit list and assigning the ranking.
(1)
The candidate who have secured qualifying marks in PECET and candidates belonging to the category of Scheduled
Caste and Scheduled Tribe to whom qualifying marks have not been prescribed, shall be assigned the ranking in the
order of merit on the basis of the aggregate marks obtained in all tests put together including incentive marks.
(2)
For the preparation of merit list, in case of more than one student scoring the same aggregate marks, the tie shall be
resolved to decide the relative ranking as follows:
(i)
By considering the marks scored in Physical efficiency test.
(ii)
In case of further tie, marks scored in skill test in Games shall be taken into consideration.
(iii)
In case of further tie, marks scored in skill test in Games shall be taken into consideration.
(iv)
In case of candidates getting equal marks at the qualifying examination also older candidates shall be given priority
basing on age.
(3)
The following rank lists shall be prepared by the Convenor:
(i)
State-wide Common Merit List:- The list shall include candidates irrespective of whether one belongs to any category of
reservation quota or not, basing on the marks obtained in the PECET.
(ii)
Local area-wise Common Merit Lists:-The list includes candidates belonging to the particular local area irrespective of
whether one belongs to any category of reservation quota or not basing on the marks obtained in the PECET.
(iii)
Concerned minority Community Merit Lists:- They include merit lists, containing the candidates belonging to the different
Minority Communities arranged in the Merit ranking assigned in the PECET, both State-wise and Local area-wise.
(iv)
Community-wise Merit Lists:- There shall be separate Community-wise merit lists for the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled
Tribes and Backward classes Communities, both as State-wide and Local area-wise; and
(v)
Merit for other categories of reservations:- There shall be separate lists for other categories of reservauons as per the
orders in force for NCC, Children of ex-serviceman and for women both State-wide and Local area-wise.
8.
Rank Cards for PECET.
- Every candidate who has been assigned rank in the merit list shall be issued Rank Card by the Convenor. The Rank
Card; among other things, include the details of the category of course to which the candidates is qualified viz.,
B.P.Ed./U.G.D.P.Ed. the rank assigned in the State-wide/Local area-wise, lists and the category-wise reservation lists, if
any.
9.
Constitution of PECET Committee.
Page 8/11
----- PAGE 9 -----
Andhra Pradesh Physical Education Conduct of Common Entrance Test for admission into Bache...
- The competent authority shall constitute the PECET Committee to deal with the matters connected with the test. The
Composition of the Committee shall consist of the following.
(1)
Chairperson, who shall be the Vice-Chancellor of any University nominated by the competent authority for each
academic year for the purpose of conducting PECET.
(2)
One representative belonging to the Physical Education Dept., of each of the University to be nominated by the
Competent Authority in consultation with the Vice-Chancellor concerned.
(3)
The Commissioner of School Education A. P. or his nominee not below the rank of Joint Director.
(4)
One representative of Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education nominated by the competent authority.
(5)
Convenor of the Entrance Test of the preceding year.
(6)
Convenor, who should be in the rank of a Professor or Head of the Department of Physical Education of the University
concerned be appointed by the competent authority in consultation with Chairperson of the PECET Committee.
(7)
One Principal, of a private Physical Education college to be nominated by the competent authority for each academic
year by turn.
10.
Functions of the PECET Committee.
- The PECET Committee shall take decisions on the following issues relating to the PEXET.
(1)
Cost of the application and fee to be collected from the candidates of PECET.
(2)
Norms for the payment of remuneration for different items/ services under taken in connection with PECET work.
(3)
Date of announcement of results.
(4)
Date if Test.
(5)
Such other issues as may be referred by the Chairman of the committee and competent authority.
11.
Functions of the Chairperson of the PECET Committee.
- The Chairperson will be discharge the following functions,
(1)
He shall preside over all the meetings of the committee. In his absence, he may nominate on of the members of the
committee to preside ovEr the meetings.
(2)
He shall point the required committees for the smooth conduct of the Tests.
(3)
He may appoint a competent Officer to assist the Convenor.
12.
Functions of the Convenor of the Committee.
- The Convenor of the PECEJJ shall subject to such directions as may be issued by the Chairperson has to discharge
duties in the matters relating to the PECET. The Convenor, is specifically responsible for discharging the following
functions:
(1)
The printing of application form of PECET.
(2)
Page 9/11
----- PAGE 10 -----
Andhra Pradesh Physical Education Conduct of Common Entrance Test for admission into Bache...
Issuing the notification inviting application for the Entrance Test.
(3)
Sale of application forms and issue of Hall Tickets.
(4)
Appointment of Testers/Coordinators/Observers.
(5)
Payment of remuneration for various items/services utilized for the purpose of PECET.
(6)
Maintenance and submission of accounts to the A.P.State Council.
(7)
Publication of results and dispatch of Rank Cards to the qualified candidates.
(8)
Such other duties as entrusted by the Chairperson.
13.
Funds for the conduct of PECET.
(1)
The amounts, that are collected from the candidates towards cost of the application and the examination fee, shall be
directly credited into the account of the secretary, Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education, Hyderabad.
(2)
The Convenor shall draw advances from the Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education to meet necessary
expenditure for items/services connected with the PECET and submit for audit to the Local fund Audit, he shall also
submit a report thereof be submitted to the Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education.
14.
Re-Examination of PECET.
- In the event of any malpractice or for any other circumstance leading to the stopping of PECET as scheduled, the
Government may for the reasons to be recorded in writing, direct the conduct of a re-examination of the PECET. In such
an event, the Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education or any other body so nominated by the Government
shall cause the PECET Re-examination to be conducted by appointing/nominating such functionaries of committee as
considered necessary, without levying any extra charge from the candidates for this purpose.
15.
Physical Education Common Entrance Test-Conducted by Association of Colleges of Physical Education (PECET-AC).
- (1) Association of Colleges of Physical Education - Formation and its Functions.
(i)
There may be an Association of colleges of Physical Education recognized by the State Council as defined in Clause (ii)
of Rule 2 to conduct PECET-AC.
(ii)
The Secretary of Association of Colleges formed in Clause (i) above shall intimate its formation, rules and bye-laws and
the names of the Officer bearers, before a stipulated date, to the competent authority and Chairman of Permanent
Committee.
(iii)
The competent authority shall communicate inviting options from the Managements of all professional Colleges for
admitting students against management Seats either through PECET or PECET-AC.
(iv)
The option of choosing, between PECET or PECET-AC shall be exercised by the Managements of the colleges to fill
Management Seats and shall be intimated in writing before a stipulated date to the Competent Authority and the
permanent Committee. In case of failure on the part of any management to exercise their option it shall be construed
that they shall admit the candidates into their colleges for the Management Seats only on the basis of the rank at
PECET conducted by the Convener in which case the Convener for admission shall approve the above admissions.
(2)
Constitution of Committee of PECET-AC. - The Association of Colleges shall constituted a Committee of PECET-AC
with eminent members and academicians concerned to Physical Education. A member of this committee shall be
Page 10/11
----- PAGE 11 -----
Andhra Pradesh Physical Education Conduct of Common Entrance Test for admission into Bache...
appointed as Convener of the Committee of PECET-AC to discharge functions as assigned by the Committee of
PECET-AC.
(3)
Functions of Committee of PECET-AC. - (i) The Committee shall PECET-AC in fair and transparent manner subject to
supervision of the permanent committee and it shall submit the proposed question papers, the names of the paper setter
and examiners and the method adopted to ensure papers are not leaked, whenever the Permanent Committee calls for
such information.
(ii)
The Committee of PECET-AC shall preserve the question paper and the answer papers for the period as indicated by
the Permanent committee.
(iii)
Committee of PECET-AC shall also communicate a copy of the merit list forthwith to the competent authority and the
Permanent Committee.
(iv)
Committee of PECET-Ac shall follow the same eligibility criteria as prescribed in Rule 3 and the same scheme for
conduct of test, minimum-qualifying mark etc., declaration of results and assigning merit ranks in rules 4, 5, 6 and 7 of
these Rules.
(v)
Preparation of the Merit List and assigning rank:The Committee of PECET-AC shall follow the guidelines prescribed in
Rule 7 under these Rules in preparing the merit list and assigning the rank, tie break in case of more than one student
scoring the same marks at PECET-AC, preparation of Rank lists and issuing of Rank Cards.
16.
Results.
- After holding PECET-AC and declaration of Results of PECET-AC, each member college of Association of Colleges
merit lists on the notice Board.
17.
The records of an Institution which has been established and which has been permitted to adopt its own admission
procedure for the last, at least, 25 years shall be examined by the permanent Committee and permit such an Institute to
adopt its own admission procedure.
18.
Funds for the conduct of PECET-AC.
- The amounts that are collected from the candidates towards cost of application and examination fee shall be utilized to
meet the expenditure for items/services connected with the PECET-AC. Accounts shall be subjected to audit and report
thereof shall be submitted to the competent authority and Permanent Committee.
19.
Re-Examination of PECET-AC.
- In the event of any malpractice or for any other circumstance leading to the stopping of PECET as scheduled, the
Permanent Committee may issue necessary' directions to the committee of PECET-AC to conduct re-examination for
the reasons to be recorded in writing without collecting any fees for such re-examination.
20.
Percentage of Seats to be filled by the Convener and the Management.
- The percentage of seats of the sanctioned intake in the colleges of Physical Education, prescribed to be filled by the
Convener, PECET and the Managements of Un-Aided Non-Minority and Minority Colleges of Physical Educations shall
be as fixed by the Government from time to time.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 11/11