
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh Regulation of Admissions into Under Graduate Professional Courses in Planni...
Andhra Pradesh Regulation of Admissions into Under Graduate
Professional Courses in Planning and Architecture (B. Arch. B. Plng,
and related courses) Rules, 2004
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/91814376/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh Regulation of Admissions into Under Graduate Professional Courses in Planning and Architecture (B.
Arch. B. Plng, and related courses) Rules, 2004
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh Regulation of Admissions into Under Graduate Professional Courses in Planning and Architecture (B.
Arch. B. Plng, and related courses) Rules, 2004
Rule
ANDHRA-PRADESH-REGULATION-OF-ADMISSIONS-INTO-UNDER-GRADUATE-PROFESSIONAL-COURSES-IN-P
LANNING-AND-ARCHITECTURE-B-ARCH-B-PLNG-AND-RELATED-COURSES-RULES-2004 of 2004
Published on 10 August 2004
Commenced on 10 August 2004
[This is the version of this document from 10 August 2004.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Andhra Pradesh Regulation of Admissions into Under Graduate Professional Courses in Planning and Architecture (B.
Arch. B. Plng, and related courses) Rules, 2004
Published vide Notification No. G.O. Ms. No. 75, Education (E.C. 2), dated 10.8.2004
Page 1/10
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh Regulation of Admissions into Under Graduate Professional Courses in Planni...
Last Updated 21st August, 2019
Rules For Admission Into Under Graduate Courses In Planning and Architecture Offered In University. Un-Aided
Non-Minority and Un-Aided Minority Architecture Colleges
No. G.O. Ms. No. 75. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sections 3 and 15 of the Andhra Pradesh Educational
Institutions (Regulation of Admission and Prohibition of Capitation Fee) Act, 1983 (Andhra Pradesh Act No. 571983) the
Governor of Andhra Pradesh hereby makes the following rules for Admissions into Under Graduate Professional
Courses in Planning and Architecture (B. Arch. B. Ping, and related courses).
1.
Short Title, Applicability and Commencement.
- (i) These rules may be called the Andhra Pradesh Regulation of Admissions into Under Graduate Professional
Courses in Planning and Architecture (B. Arch. B. Ping, and related courses) Rules, 2004.
(ii)
They shall apply for selection and allotment of candidates for admission into all the Professional Institutions imparting
Under Graduate Professional Courses in Planning and Architecture (B.Arch, B.Plng. and related courses) for which
admissions shall be made through Common Entrance Test held by the State or its agency designated as PACET
(Planning and Architecture Common Entrance Test) held by the Association of Colleges designated as PA CET - AC as
per the Andhra Pradesh Planning and Architecture Common Entrance Test (PACET) for entry into 5 - year B. Arch and
4 - year B. Planning and other related courses Rules, 2004, issue in G.O. (4) read above.
(iii)
These Rules shall come into force from the Academic year 2004-2005.
2.
Definitions.
- (I) In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,
(a)
"Act" means the Andhra Pradesh Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admission and Prohibition of Capitation Fee)
Act, 1983 (Andhra Pradesh Act No. 5 of 1983).
(b)
"Committee for Admission" means the Committee nominated by the Competent Authority to select and make allotment
of candidates to University/Un-Aided Private Professional Institutions including Minority Professional Institutions offering
B. Arch, B.Plng. and related Courses in the State for Admissions in accordance with these Rules.
(c)
"Common Entrance Test" means PACET/PACET-AC, the examination conducted for assigning merit rank to candidates,
which will be the basis for admission of the candidates into the first year of B. Arch, B. Ping, and related Courses in
various University and Un-Aided Professional Institutions including Minority Professional Institutions in the State.
(d)
"Competent Authority" means the Chairman, Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education.
(e)
"Convener of Admissions" means the Convener as appointed by the Competent Authority.
(f)
"Convener Seats" means the seats earmarked from, out of the sanctioned intake of seats in each course to be filled by
the Convener of Admissions.
(g)
"Inspecting Authority" means the authority/officer appointed by the competent authority for inspecting and scrutinising
the admissions of the candidates made in the Un-Aided Non-Minority/Minority Professional Institutions.
(h)
"Institutions" means, unless otherwise specifically mentioned, all the Professional Institutions (Including those detailed
as State - wide Institutions) imparting B. Arch., B. Ping, and related Courses.
(i)
"Local area" means the territorial jurisdiction prescribed for identifying the local candidate:
(j)
"Local Candidate" means the Candidate in relation to the local area as specified in Andhra Pradesh Education
Page 2/10
----- PAGE 3 -----
Andhra Pradesh Regulation of Admissions into Under Graduate Professional Courses in Planni...
Institutions (Regulations of Admissions) Order, 1974 as subsequently amended.
(k)
"Management Seats" means the seats earmarked from out of sanctioned intake of seat in each course to be filled by the
Management of the Un-Aided Minority/Non-Minority Professional Institutions.
(l)
"Qualified Candidate" means the candidate who has appeared for the Common Entrance Test for admission into the
related Professional Course and has been assigned ranking in the Common Merit List as per Rule (5), of "the Andhra
Pradesh Planning and Architecture Common Entrance Test (PACET) or (PACET-AC) for entry into 5 - year B. Arch, and
4 - year B. Planning and other related courses, Rules, 2004.
(m)
"Qualifying Examination" means the examination of the minimum qualification prescribed for appearance/passing of
which entitles one to seek admission into the relevant Professional Course and as prescribed in Rule 3 of "the Andhra
Pradesh Planning and Architecture Common Entrance Test (PACET) for entry into 5 - year B. Arch, and 4-year B.
Planning and other related courses. Rules 2004. (n) "State Council" means the Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher
Education, constituted under the Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education Act, 1988 (Andhra Pradesh Act No.
16 of 1988).
(o)
"University" means the University concerned in which the particular courses are offered:
(II)
Words and expressions used but not defined in these rules shall have the same meaning assigned to them in the
Andhra Pradesh Education Institutions (Regulation of Admissions and Prohibition of Capitation Fee) Act, 1993.
3.
Method of Admission.
- The admission of candidates into Professional Institutions offering B.Arch. B.Plng. and related Courses shall be made
in the order of merit on the basis of the ranking assigned in PACET/PACET-AC as per Rule 5 of the Andhra Pradesh
Planning and Architecture Common Entrance Test (PACET) for entry into 5 year B. Arch, and 4 year B. Planning and
other related courses, Rules 2004.
4.
Eligibility for Admission.
- The eligibility criteria for admission into B.Arch., B.Plng. and related Courses shall be as mentioned below:
(I)
The Candidate should be of Indian Nationality
(II)
The Candidate should have passed the qualifying examination (10+2) or equivalent on the date of his/her Counselling
for admission and should have secured a rank at PACET/ PACET-AC and should satisfy other conditions laid down in
these Rules.
(III)
The candidate should satisfy Local/ Non-Local status requirement as laid down in the Andhra Pradesh Educational
Institutions (Regulation of Admissions) Order, 1974 as subsequently amended.
5.
Allotment of Seats and Authority of Admission for Convener Seats and Management Seats.
- (i) University Colleges:
All the sanctioned Intake of seats in each course in University Colleges shall be the "Convener Seats" (100%). They
shall be allotted to eligible candidates under these Rules on the basis of rank obtained at PACET and by following Rules
of reservation laid down by the Government from time to time.
(ii)
Un-Aided Non-Minority Professional Institution. - The seats to be allotted in each Un-aided Non-Minority Professional
Institution under these Rules shall be:
(a)
Convener seats. -  85% of sanctioned intake of seats in each course in Un-Aided Non-Minority Professional Institutions,
shall be filled with eligible candidates on the basis of Rank obtained at PACET and by following Rules of reservation laid
Page 3/10
----- PAGE 4 -----
Andhra Pradesh Regulation of Admissions into Under Graduate Professional Courses in Planni...
down by the Government from time to tome:
(b)
Management seats. -  15% of the sanctioned Intake of seats in B.Arch/B.Plng. and related courses, shall be open for
admission to all the eligible candidates including candidates belonging to other States and Union Territories of India and
NRIs and shall be admitted on the basis of rank obtained at PACET/PACET-AC/All India Common Entrance Test
recognized by the Government.
Provided that un-filled seats, if any in B.Plng. Course only, may be filled with the students who scored 50% of marks
either in-group or aggregate marks in the qualifying examination, duly maintaining merit and the transparency.
All the seats in B.Arch. Course shall be filled only with the candidates who obtained rank at PACET/PACET - AC/All
India Common Entrance Test recognized by the Government.
(iii)
Un-aided Minority Professional Institution. - The seats to be allotted in each Un-Aided Minority Professional Institution
under these Rules for Admission of Candidates shall be,-
(a)
Convener seats: 30% of sanctioned Intake of seats in each course in Un-Aided Minority Professional Institution, which
shall be filled with eligible candidates on the basis of Rank obtained at PACET and by following the Rules of Reservation
laid down by the Government from time to time:
(b)
Management Seats. - (I) 15% of the sanctioned Intake of seats in B.Arch/B.Plng. and related courses, shall be open for
admission to all the eligible candidates including candidates belonging to other States and Union Territories of India and
Non-Residential Indians and shall be admitted on the basis of rank obtained at PACET/PACET-AC/All India Common
Entrance Test recognized by the Government:
Provided that un-filled seats, if any in B.Plng. Course only, may be filled with the students who scored 50% of marks
either in group or aggregate marks in the qualifying examination duly maintaining merit and the transparency. All the
seats in B.Arch. Course shall be filled only with the candidates who obtained rank at PACET/PACET-AC/ All India
Common Entrance Test recognized by the Government.
(II)
55% of the total Intake of seats in B.Arch./B.Plng. and related courses, shall be filled with the concerned
Religious/Linguistic Minority eligible candidates only on the basis of Rank, obtained at PACET/PACET-AC by following
Merit Order and Transparency and eligibility conditions at Rule 4, and Rule of reservation laid down by the Government
from time to time.
Vacant seats, if any, in this category shall be filled by the Management with eligible Non-Minority candidates who are
qualified at PACET/PACET-AC ensuring Merit and Transparency and by following the Rule of reservation.
6.
Procedure of Admissions.
- (i) Filling Up Convener Seats: (100% seats in case of University Colleges, 85% of seats in the case of Un-Aided
Non-Minority Professional Institutions and 30% seats in the case of Un-Aided Minority Professional Institution):
(a)
A committee for admission shall be constituted by the competent authority to advise the Convener of Admission in the
matter of Admissions.
(b)
The Convener of Admissions shall conduct admissions to all the Convener Seats.
(c)
The Convener of Admissions shall collect Rank lists of the qualified candidates of PACET prepared by the Convener,
PACET.
(d)
The Convener of Admission shall prepare the programme of schedule for admissions, notify the programme of
admissions and shall make all the necessary arrangements for manpower admission venue, drawing scrutiny officers
from other departments, fee collection, facilities etc., in consultation with the Committee of Admissions.
(e)
No Management of Un-Aided Non-Minority Professional Institution and Un-Aided Minority Professional Institution shall
Page 4/10
----- PAGE 5 -----
Andhra Pradesh Regulation of Admissions into Under Graduate Professional Courses in Planni...
call for applications for admission separately or individually for the Convener Seats.
(f)
Candidates shall be called for Counselling and provisional allotment of Courses/Institutions, shall be made in the order
of merit assigned at PACET by following the Rules of Reservation issued by the Government from time to time and such
allotment is only provisional.
(g)
The selection of candidates and allotment of Courses/Institutions, shall be solely on the basis of merit as adjudged by
the rank obtained in the Entrance Test subject to the condition that the candidate should have pass the qualifying
examination. However, mere appearance at the Entrance Test and obtaining rank in the merit list does not entitle a
candidate to be considered for admission automatically into any Course/ Institution unless he/she also satisfies the rules
and regulations of admission prescribed by the concerned University/Government including marks to be obtained in the
qualifying examination.
(h)
Once a candidate secures an admission to a particular College/ Institution based on his/her option no more claim for
admission into other Colleges, to any other kind of 'seat or any other course, be entertained except as provided by the
convener of Admissions.
(i)
The Candidates admitted in any Colleges of Architecture shall pay at the time of admission the fees prescribed by the
University/ Government and payable per student per annum.
(j)
After completion of this stage of admissions, the Convener of admissions, shall handover the remaining seats to the
Competent Authority to fill them. The Seats, still left unfilled in Un-Aided Non-Minority Professional Institutions and
Un-Aided Minority Professional Institutions, shall be handed over to the Managements concerned to fill them in their
respective Institutions (Institutional Spot Admissions) as per Rules and by giving notification in leading News papers. All
such admissions made by the Un-aided Professional Institutions require ratification by the Competent Authority.
(k)
The Competent Authority/ Convener of Admissions shall prepare the final list of the candidates admitted course-wise
and Institution-wise and send the same to University Departments and Colleges concerned.
(l)
The Competent Authority shall fix the cutoff dates for each stage of admission contemplated above, (m) All the
candidates, called for Counselling, shall produce the specified original documents along with duly attested Photocopies,
and the Convener of Admissions shall be entitled to cause verification of all the documents produced by the candidates.
(ii)
Filling up Management Seats (15%) In the case of both Un-Aided Non-Minority and Un-Aided Minority Professional
Institutions): 15% of the sanctioned Intake of seats in B.Arch./B.Plng. and related courses, shall be open for admission
to all the eligible candidates including candidates belonging to other States and Union Territories of India and Non
Residential Indians and shall be admitted on the basis of rank obtained at PACET/ PACET-AC/A11 India Common
Entrance Test recognized by the Government: Provided that un-filled seats, if any in B.Plng. Course only, may be filled
with the students who scored 50% of marks either in-group or aggregate marks in the qualifying examination duly
maintaining merit and the transparency. All the seats in B.Arch Course shall be filled only with the candidates who
obtained rank at PACET/PACET-AC/ All India Common Entrance Test recognized by the Government.
(iii)
Filling up Management Seats (55%);
(a)
For the 55% of seats, to be filled by the management with relevant Minority candidates as per Rule 5(iii) (b) (II) the
procedure of admission as given below shall be followed in order to ensure transparency and merit:-
(i)
The Management of the Un-Aided Minority Professional Institution shall decide the programme of admission and display
it on the notice board of the college and also give wide publicity of the same.
(ii)
The Management of the Un-Aided Minority Professional Institution shall issue a notification separately in respect of each
Page 5/10
----- PAGE 6 -----
Andhra Pradesh Regulation of Admissions into Under Graduate Professional Courses in Planni...
college in all leading news papers inviting applications from the relevant minority candidates desiring to seek admissions
in the College. The notification should contain cost of application, number of seats available for admission in each
course, eligibility criteria, fee payable etc.,
(iii)
The application forms shall be made available at a reasonable cost to the candidates from the sales counter of the
college concerned and also at the offices mentioned below for accessibility and Transparency.
(a)
Secretary to Government, Minority Welfare Department, Government of Andhra Pradesh.
(b)
Commissioner of Technical Education, Andhra Pradesh and
(c)
Secretaiy, Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education
(iv)
The filled in applications shall be received on or before the prescribed last date by the same authorities/ offices which
have supplied the blank applications.
(v)
A register shall be maintained to account for the sale of applications and receipt of filled in applications, entering the
Name of the candidate with his signature and date of receipt and the signature of the officer who is in charge of the
register.
(vi)
An acknowledgement shall be issued for the receipt of filled in application to each of the candidate.
(vii)
The Management shall arrange to collect the filled in applications from other offices mentioned above and shall prepare
merit order of all the candidates who have applied for admission on the basis of the rank obtained at
PACET/PACET-AC.
(viii)
The list of candidates, selected for Counselling and allotment of seats, shall be displayed on the notice board of the
college/Websites of the Institute, Convenor of PACET and State Council and also the candidates shall be intimated
through newspapers the date and time of Counselling with all the information like the fee payable at the time of
admission in the form of cheque/DD and also other instructions to be followed for the purpose of admission.
(ix)
The candidates, selected for admission after Counselling, shall be directed to pay the prescribed fee on the date of
Counselling, and a list of all the admitted candidates shall be displayed on the notice board of the college and it shall be
communicated within seven days to the competent authority. Commissioner of Technical Education and Principal
Secretary to Govt. Minority Welfare Department.
(x)
If any vacancies arise after completing the first round of Counselling, they shall be displayed on the notice board of the
college and the procedure of admission laid in clauses (viii) and (ix) above shall be repeated to fill up the vacancies.
(xi)
The vacant seats still if any, shall be filled by the Management of the College with eligible Non-Minority candidates
following Rules of reservation.
(b)
After completion of admissions, each Un-aided Minority Professional Institution shall submit to the Competent Authority,
the statements containing full particulars of candidates admitted under these Rules at (ii) and (iii) above within two
weeks from the date of completion. The Competent Authority shall verify the correctness of admissions through the
Inspecting authority and if any Irregularity is noticed it shall call upon such Professional Institution to rectify the same.
(c)
If it is found that no steps were taken by the Management to rectify the irregularities in admissions made by them, penal
action shall be initiated against the Management of the college.
(d)
The competent authority shall fix the cutoff dates for the Management to complete the above process and to submit the
Page 6/10
----- PAGE 7 -----
Andhra Pradesh Regulation of Admissions into Under Graduate Professional Courses in Planni...
lists of admitted candidates.
7.
Fee for Planning and Architecture Courses.
- The Fee payable per student per annum for each discipline shall be as fixed by the committee, for fixation of fee
structure of private Un-Aided Professional Colleges, constituted by the Government.
8.
Rules of Reservation for admission.
- Seats shall be reserved to the following categories for admissions to Professional courses:
(1)
Region-wise reservation of seats:
(a)
Admission to 85% of the "Convener seats" Mentioned in Rule 6(1) above in each Course shall be reserved for the local
candidates.
The remaining 15% of the "Convener seats" Mentioned In Rule 6(1) above shall be unreserved seats as specified in the
Andhra Pradesh Educational Institutions (Regulation and Admissions) Order, 1974 as subsequently amended.
(b)
Admission to 85% of the "Management Seats" mentioned in Rule 6(iii) above, shall be reserved for local candidates.
The remaining 15% of the "Management seats" Mentioned in Rule 6(iii) above shall be unreserved seats as specified in
the Andhra Pradesh Educational Institutions (Regulations and Admissions) Order, 1974 as subsequently amended.
(c)
In respect State-wide Universities admissions into 85% of seats, in each Course shall be reserved for the candidates
belonging to the three local areas in the State specified in this sub-rule namely, Andhra University area (Andhra),
Osmania University area (Telangana) and Sri Venkateswara University area (Rayalaseema) in the ratio of 42:36:22
respectively and the balance of 15% seats shall be left for open competition.
Explanation. - A. For purpose of these rules:
(i)
The Local area means. - (a) The part of the State comprising the districts of Adilabad, Hyderabad (including Twin Cities)
Ranga Reddv, Karimnagar, Khammam, Medak, Mahaboobnagar, Nalgonda, Nizamabad and Warangal shall be
regarded1 as the Osmania University Local area (Telangana).
(b)
The part of the state Comprising the districts of Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, East Godavari, West
Godavari, Krishna, Guntur and Prakasam shall be regarded as the Andhra University Local area (Andhra).
(c)
The part of the State Comprising the districts of Anantapur, Kurnool. Chittoor, Kadapa and Nellore shall be regarded as
the Sri Venkateswara University Local area (Rayalaseema).
(ii)
Local Candidate means. - (a) A candidate for admission shall be regarded as a local candidate in relation to a local area.
if he has studied in Educational Institution or Educational Institutions in such local area for a period of not less than four
consecutive academic years ending with the academic year in which he appeared or as the case may be, first appeared
in the relevant qualifying examination.
OR
(b)
Where, during the whole or any part of the four consecutive academic years ending with the academic year in which he
appeared or as the case may be first appeared for the relevant qualifying examination he has not studied in any
Educational Institutions, if he has resided in that local area for a period of not less than four years immediately preceding
the date of commencement of the relevant qualifying examination, which he appeared or as the case may be first
appeared.
B. A candidate for admission to the Course who is not regarded as local candidate under explanation (ii) in relation to
any local area shall,-
(a)
If he has studied in Educational Institutions in the State for a period of not less than seven consecutive academic years
Page 7/10
----- PAGE 8 -----
Andhra Pradesh Regulation of Admissions into Under Graduate Professional Courses in Planni...
ending with the academic year in which he appeared or as the case may be first appeared for the relevant qualifying
examination be regarded as a local candidate in relation to.....
(i)
Such local area where, he has studied for the maximum period out of said period of seven years.
OR
(ii)
Where the period of his study in two or more local areas are equal such local area where he has studied last in such
equal period.
OR
(b)
if, during the whole or any part of seven consecutive academic years ending wit h the academic year in which he
appeared or as case may be first appeared for the relevant qualify examination he has not studied in the Educational
Institutions in any local area but has resided in the State during the whole of the said period of seven years, be regarded
as a local candidate in relation to:-
(i)
Such local area where he has resided for the maximum period out of the said period of seven years.
OR
(ii)
Where the periods of his residence in two or more local areas are equal, such local area where he has resided last in
such equal periods.
OR
C. The following categories of candidates are eligible to apply for admission to the remaining 15% of un-reserved seats;
(a)
All the candidates eligible to be declared as local candidates.
(b)
Candidates who have resided in the State for a total period of 10 years excluding periods of study outside the State or
either of whose parent have resided in the State for a total period of ten years excluding period of employment outside
the State.
(c)
Candidates who are children of parents who are in the employment of this State or Central Government. Public Senior
Corporations, Local Bodies, Universities and other similar quasi-public Institutions, within the State.
(d)
Candidates who are spouses of those in the employment of the State or Central Government, Public Sector
Corporations, Local Bodies. Universities and Educational Institutions recognized by the Government OR University OR
other competent authority and similar quasi Government Institutions within the State.
D. If a local candidate in respect of a local area is not available to fill any seat reserved or allocated in favour of a local
candidate in respect of that local area, such seat shall be filled if it had not been reserved.
Note. - For details, see the Andhra Pradesh Educational Institutions (Regulations of Admission) Order. 1974 as
subsequent amended.
(ii)
Reservation of seats for SC/ST/BC Communities:
(a)
15% of seats in each course in each Institution shall be reserved for the candidates belonging into Schedule Castes as
shown below:
SC - A
...
1%
SC - B
...
7%
SC - C
Page 8/10
----- PAGE 9 -----
Andhra Pradesh Regulation of Admissions into Under Graduate Professional Courses in Planni...
...
6%
SC - D
...
1%
(b)
6% of seats in each course in each Institutions shall be reserved for the candidates belonging to the Schedule Tribes.
The seats reserved for Scheduled Tribes shall be made available to Scheduled Castes and Vice-versa, if qualified
candidates are not available in the category.
If qualified candidates belongs to Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes Communities are not available, the left over
seats, reserved for them, shall be treated as unreserved seats and shall be filled by the candidates of General pool.
(c)
25% seats in each course in each institution shall be reserved for the candidates belonging to the Backward Classes
and shall be allocated among the four group of Backward Classes as shown below (Vide G.O.Ms.No. 1793, Edn., dated
23-9-70):
Group 'A'
...
7%
Group 'B'
...
10%
Group 'C'
...
1%
Group 'D'
...
7%
If qualified candidates belonging to Backward Class of a particular group are not available, the leftover seats can be
adjusted for the candidates of next group. If qualified candidates belonging to Backward Classes are not available to fill
up the 25% seats reserved for them, the left over seats shall be treated as unreserved and shall be filled up with
candidates of General Pool.
(d)
No candidate seeking reservation for admission under the above categories, be allowed to participate in the Counselling
for admission unless he produces the Integrated Community Certificate prescribed by the Govt., and issued by the
Revenue Authorities in the Govt.(Vide G.O.Ms.No.58, Social Welfare (J) Dept., dated 12-5-1997).
(iii)
Reservation for Special Categories:
(a)
Seats shall also be reserved in each course for the following categories, to the extent indicated against them.
(i)
Physically Handicapped (PH) -There shall be 3% horizontal reservation in each category (OC, BC, SC, ST) for Visually
handicapped/hearing impaired/ orthopedically Handicapped (each 1%). (Vide G.O.Ms.No. 109 Women Development
Child Welfare and Labour Dept., dated 15-6-1992 and G.O.Ms.No. 339 Edn., (EC-II) Dept., dated 15-12-1999.
(ii)
Children of Armed Persons (CAP) -2% for the children of armed persons i.e., Ex-Servicemen, Defence Personnel
including the Children of Border Security Force and the Central Reserve Police Force residing in Andhra Pradesh for a
minimum period of 5 years. (Vide G.O.Ms.No. 191 Edn., EC-II Dept., dated 26-8-1983) and G.O.Ms.No. 370 Edn., EC-II
Dept., dated 18-10-1994).
(iii)
National Cadet Corps (NCC) - 1% for National Cadet Corps candidates. (Vide G.O.Ms.No. 155 HE (EC-II) Dept., dated
17-11-2000).
Page 9/10
----- PAGE 10 -----
Andhra Pradesh Regulation of Admissions into Under Graduate Professional Courses in Planni...
(iv)
Sports and Games (SP) - 1/2% (0.5%) for Sports and Games candidates, vide. (Vide (1) G.O.Ms.No. 103 HE (EC-II)
Dept., 15th July, 2000).
(2)
G.O.Ms.No. 149 HE (EC-II) Dept., dated 28th October, 2000.
(3)
G.O. Ms. No. 725 HE (EC-II) Dept., dated 3rd October, 2001.
If qualified candidates, belonging to NCC/SP/CAP categories, are not available, the left over seats shall be filled up with
candidates of General Pool of the same local area.
Note. - The candidates claiming reservation benefits under the above categories shall produce original documents in
support of their claim to the Convener of Admissions and he shall be entitled to refer the original documents of the
candidates claiming reservation for scrutiny and confirmation, to the following authorities.
(i) NCC
...
To the Director of NCC, Andhra Pradesh
(ii) Sports & Games Sports
...
To the Vice-Chairman and Managing Director,
Authority of Andhra Pradesh (SAAP)
(iii) Physically Handicapped
...
To the Medical Board Constituted by the
Competent Authority.
(iv) CAP
...
To the Director, Sainik Welfare Department,
Andhra Pradesh.
(b)
The priorities in respect of the special categories mentioned above in items above shall be in accordance with
Government Orders issued from time to time.
(iv)
Reservation of seats of women. - There shall be a reservation of 33.1 /3% of seats in favour of women candidates in
each course and in each category (OC/SC/ST/ BC/CAP/NCC/PH/SP).
The above reservation shall not be applicable if women candidates are selected on merit in each category exceeds
33.1/3%.
If sufficient number of women candidates are not available in the respective categories, those seats shall be diverted to
the men candidates of the same category.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 10/10