
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (Terms and Conditions for Determination o...
Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (Terms and
Conditions for Determination of Tariff for Wheeling and Retail Sale of
Electricity) Regulation, 2005
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/147106070/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (Terms and Conditions for Determination of Tariff for Wheeling and
Retail Sale of Electricity) Regulation, 2005
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (Terms and Conditions for Determination of Tariff for Wheeling and
Retail Sale of Electricity) Regulation, 2005
Act 4 of 2005
Published on 1 January 2005
Commenced on 1 January 2005
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 2005.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (Terms and Conditions for Determination of Tariff for Wheeling and
Retail Sale of Electricity) Regulation, 2005
(Regulation No.4 of 2005)
Last Updated 12th September, 2019
In exercise of powers conferred under clause (zd), (ze) and (zf) of Section 181 (2) read with Sections 61 and 62 of the
Page 1/11
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (Terms and Conditions for Determination o...
Electricity Act 2003 (36 of 2003) and all other enabling powers in that behalf, the Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory
Commission hereby makes the following Regulation, namely:
Part -I Preliminary
1.
Short Title, Extent and Commencement.
- (i) This Regulation may be called the Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (Terms and Conditions for
Determination of Tariff for Wheeling and Retail Sale of Electricity) Regulation, 2005.
(ii)
This Regulation shall extend to the whole of Andhra Pradesh.
(iii)
This Regulation shall come into force on the date of its publication in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette
2.
Definitions and interpretation.
- (i) In this Regulation, unless the context otherwise requires:
(a)
"Act" means the Electricity Act, 2003 (36 of 2003);
(b)
"Aggregate Revenue Requirement" (ARR) means the revenue required to meet the costs pertaining to the licensed
business, for a financial year, which would be permitted to be recovered through tariffs and charges by the Commission.
(c)
"Base Year" means the financial year immediately preceding the first year of the Control Period;
(d)
"CERC" means the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission established under Section 76 of the Act;
(e)
"Commission" means the Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission;
(f)
"Conduct of Business Regulations" means the Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (Conduct of
Business) Regulations in force from time to time;
(g)
"Consumer / User contributions" means any contributions made by those using or intending to use the Distribution
network of a licensee for supply or wheeling of electricity. Any grant received by Licensees would also be treated as
Consumer / User contribution.
(h)
"Control Period" means a multiyear period fixed by the Commission from time to time, usually 5 years, for which the
principles for determination of revenue requirement will be fixed, the first Control Period, however, being of the duration
of 3 years;
(i)
"Distribution Business" means the business of operating and maintaining a distribution system for supplying electricity in
the area of supply of the Distribution Licensee in terms of the Distribution and Retail Supply Licence granted by the
Commission;
(j)
"Financial year" means the period commencing on 1st April of a calendar year and ending on 31st March of the
subsequent calendar year;
(k)
"Licensees" Standards of Performance Regulation" means the A. P. Electricity Regulatory Commission (Licensees'
Standards of Performance) Regulation, 2004 (Regulation No.7 of 2004).
(l)
"Non-Tariff Income" means income relating to the licensed business other than from tariffs for wheeling and retail sale,
and excludes any income from Other Business and income on account of Fuel Surcharge Adjustment, Crosssubsidy
Surcharge and Additional Surcharge;
(m)
Page 2/11
----- PAGE 3 -----
Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (Terms and Conditions for Determination o...
"Other Business" means any business engaged in by a Distribution Licensee under Section 51 of the Act for optimum
utilization of the assets of such Distribution Licensee and shall include any business of the Distribution Licensee other
than the licensed business;
(n)
"Retail Supply Business" means the business of sale of electricity by a Licensee to consumers , in accordance with the
terms of the Distribution and Retail Supply Licence;
(o)
"Regulated Rate Base (RRB)" is the value of the gross fixed assets net of the consumer contributions and accumulated
depreciation;
(p)
"State" means the State of Andhra Pradesh.
(ii)
Words and expressions used and not defined in this Regulation but defined in the Act shall have the meanings as
assigned to them in the Act.
(iii)
All proceedings under this Regulation shall be governed by the Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission
(Conduct of Business) Regulations.
3.
Extent of Application.
- 3.1 This Regulation shall apply to all the Distribution Licensees in the State for a) Distribution Business and b) Retail
Supply Business.
3.2
In accordance with the principles laid out in this Regulation, the Commission shall determine the Aggregate Revenue
Requirement (ARR) for a) Distribution Business and b) Retail Supply Business.
3.3
The ARR determined for Distribution Business will be the basis for the fixation of the wheeling tariff/charges.
3.4
The ARR determined for Retail Supply Business will be the basis for the fixation of the Tariff/Charges for retail sale of
electricity including surcharges.
Part-II Approach, Frame Work, Procedures and Filings
4.
Guidelines for Computing Aggregate Revenue Requirement.
- The Guidelines already issued by the Commission for computing the Aggregate Revenue Requirement / Expected
Revenue from Charges (ARR / ERC) to the extent modified herein would continue to apply for the Distribution and the
Retail Supply Businesses separately till such time as fresh Guidelines are issued.
5.
Segregation of Accounts into Distribution and Retail Supply.
- Till such time as there is a complete segregation of accounts between Distribution and Retail Supply businesses, the
ARR for each business shall be supported by an Allocation Statement that contains the apportionment of costs and
revenues to that business. The allocation statement shall also contain the methodology that has to be adopted for the
apportionment.
6.
Filing Procedure. - 6.1 Every Distribution Licensee shall file for each of its licensed business an application for approval
of its Aggregate Revenue Requirement (ARR) for each year of the Control Period, not less than 120 days before the
commencement of the first year of the Control Period. This filing shall be in such form and in such manner as specified
and in accordance with the Guidelines issued by the Commission. The Distribution Licensees may file such applications
for ARR of the first Control Period within a period not less than 90 days before the commencement of the Control Period.
6.2
The ARR filing for the Distribution business shall be for the entire Control Period. For the Retail Supply business the
ARR filing will be on annual basis for the first Control Period and the entire Control Period for the subsequent Control
Periods.
Page 3/11
----- PAGE 4 -----
Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (Terms and Conditions for Determination o...
6.3
ARR for Distribution Business. - The ARR filings shall contain the following:
(a)
The Operation and Maintenance (O&M) costs which include employee-related costs, repair & maintenance costs and
administrative & general costs, estimated for the Base Year and the year prior to the Base Year in complete detail,
together with the forecast for each year of the Control Period based on the norms proposed by the Distribution Licensee
including indexation and other appropriate mechanisms in terms of the principles enunciated in this Regulation for O&M
cost allowance.
(b)
Regulated Rate Base (RRB) for the Base Year and each year of the Control Period which requires submission of the
working capital requirement and a detailed scheme/project-wise Capital Investment Plan with a capitalisation schedule
covering each year of the Control Period consistent with the Commission's approved Resource Plan.
(c)
A proposal for appropriate capital structure and its cost of financing (interest cost and return on equity) for the purpose of
computing Weighted Average Cost of Capital.
(d)
Targets proposed for reduction of distribution losses during the Control Period duly adhering to the Licensees' Standards
of Performance Regulation.
(e)
Details of depreciation, including Advance against depreciation if any required and capitalisation schedules for each
year of the Control Period.
(f)
Description of external parameters proposed to be used for indexation;
(g)
Details of taxes on income;
(h)
Any other relevant expenditure;
(i)
Proposals for sharing of gains and losses;
(j)
Proposals for efficiency parameter targets;
(k)
Proposals for rewarding efficiency in performance
(l)
Any other matters considered appropriate
6.4
ARR for Retail Supply Business. - The ARR for Retail Supply Business shall contain:
(a)
Power purchase costs for each year of the Control Period. The power purchase costs shall also include the transfer
price of own generation for the supply business in line with the Power Procurement Plan approved by the Commission
as part of the Distribution Licensee's Resource Plan.
(b)
All other items mentioned for the distribution business to the extent applicable and in accordance with cost allocation
statement mentioned in clause 5 of this Regulation.
7.
Filing for Proposed Tariff (FPT).
- 7.1 The FPT for Distribution business and Retail Supply business shall be filed along with the respective ARR filings.
7.2
The application shall be made for determination of tariff for:
(a)
Wheeling of electricity, i.e. Wheeling Charges to recover the ARR of Distribution Business
Page 4/11
----- PAGE 5 -----
Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (Terms and Conditions for Determination o...
(b)
Retail sale of electricity, i.e. Tariffs for Retail sale of electricity to recover the ARR of Retail Supply Business
7.3
Distribution Business. - The application for FPT shall contain the following
(a)
The Distribution system or network usage forecast for each year of the Control Period consistent with the Resource
Plan.
(b)
Proposals for computation of tariffs for wheeling of electricity for each of the years of the Control Period, including the
losses to be charged in kind and the procedure therefor.
(c)
Proposals for Non-Tariff Income with item-wise description and details.
(d)
Proposals in respect of income from Other Business.
(e)
The proposed wheeling charges shall be voltage-wise. For the first Control Period, however, the Distribution Licensee
may propose these charges computed on normative basis.
(f)
Expected Revenue from the proposed Wheeling Charges, Non-Tariff Income and Income from Other Business(es).
7.4
Retail Supply of Electricity Business. - The application for FPT shall contain the following.
(a)
Proposal for retail sale of electricity to the consumers pertaining to its retail supply business and the details may include
tariffs for each consumer category, slab-wise and voltage-wise. The tariffs proposed may also include energy charges,
fixed/demand charges and minimum charges.
(b)
Proposals for Non-Tariff Income with item-wise description and details.
(c)
Each tariff proposal submitted by the Distribution Licensee shall be supported with a cost-of-service model allocating the
costs of the licensed business in respect of each category of consumers based on appropriate assumptions.
(d)
Expected Revenue from the proposed Retail Sale Tariffs, Non-Tariff Income and income from Other Business(es) and
other matters considered appropriate by the Distribution Licensee, including incentive schemes to consumers, voltage
surcharge and power factor surcharge.
8.
Disposal of Applications.
- 8.1 The Commission will process the Distribution Licensee's filings in accordance with this Regulation and its Conduct
of business Regulations.
8.2
Based on the Distribution Licensees' filings, objections/suggestions from public and other stakeholders, the Commission
may accept an application with such modifications and/or such conditions as may be deemed just and appropriate and
issue, within 120 days of the receipt of the application (within 90 days in case of an application filed for the first Control
Period in accordance with the provisions of clause 6.1), an Order containing inter alia targets for controllable items and
the approved Aggregate Revenue Requirement for the Distribution Business and the ARR for the Retail Supply
Business.
9.
Resource Plan.
- 9.1 The Distribution Licensee shall file for Commission's approval a Resource Plan on 1st April of the year preceding
the first year of Control Period. The Resource Plan shall inter alia, contain the Sales Forecast, Load Forecast, Power
Procurement. Plan and a Distribution Plan (Capital Investment Plan) consistent with the requirement of the
Commission's Guidelines on Load Forecast and Resource Plan (Distribution Plan and Power Procurement Plan) as
Page 5/11
----- PAGE 6 -----
Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (Terms and Conditions for Determination o...
amended from time to time:
Provided that the Resource Plan for the first Control Period may be filed along with the Multi-year filings for ARR of the
first Control Period.
9.2
The Commission shall approve the Resource Plan as per the Guidelines on Load Forecast, Resource Plan (Distribution
Plan and Power Procurement Plan) and the Distribution Licensee shall adopt them in the Multi-Year and Annual filings
for the Control Period.
10.
Multi-Year Tariff Framework and Approach.
- 10.1 The multi-year tariff framework shall be based on the following approach, for calculation of aggregate revenue
requirement and expected revenue from tariff and charges.
10.2
Base Year. - Values for the Base Year of the Control Period will be determined based on the audited accounts available,
best estimate for the relevant years and other factors considered appropriate by the Commission, and after applying the
tests for determining the controllable or uncontrollable nature of various items. The Commission will normally not revisit
the performance targets even if the targets are fixed on the basis of base values of un-audited accounts.
10.3
Targets. - Targets will be set for items that are deemed by the Commission as "controllable" which constitute operation &
maintenance costs, financing costs, and for distribution losses duly adhering to the Licensees' Standards of
Performance Regulation. Trajectory for specific variables may be stipulated by the Commission where the performance
of the applicant is sought to be improved upon through incentives and disincentives;
10.4
Controllable and Uncontrollable items of ARR: - The expenditure of the Distribution Licensee considered as
"controllable" and "uncontrollable" shall be as follows:
Distribution Business
ARR Item
" Controllable " / "
Uncontrollable
Operation & Maintenance Expenses
Return on Capital Employed
Depreciation
Taxes on Income
Non-tariff income
Controllable
Controllable
Controllable
Uncontrollable
Controllable
In addition to the above items the retail supply business shall include the following:
Retail Supply
Business
ARR Item
"Controllable"/"Uncontrollable"
Cost of power
purchase
Uncontrollable
10.5
Pass-through of gains and losses on variations in "uncontrollable" items of ARR: - The Distribution Licensee shall be
eligible to claim variations in "uncontrollable" items in the ARR for the year succeeding the relevant year of the Control
Period depending on the availability of data as per actuals with respect to effect of uncontrollable items:
Provided that the Commission shall allow the financing cost on account of the time gap between the time when the
Page 6/11
----- PAGE 7 -----
Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (Terms and Conditions for Determination o...
true-up becomes due and when it is actually allowed and the corrections shall not be normally revisited.
10.6
Sharing of gains and losses on variations in "controllable" items of ARR: - The Distribution Licensee in its annual filings
during the Control Period shall present gains and losses for each controllable item of the Aggregate Revenue
Requirement. A statement of gain and loss against each controllable item will be presented after adjusting for any
variations on account of uncontrollable factors.
10.7
For the purpose of sharing gains and losses with the consumers, only aggregate gains or losses for the Control Period
as a whole will be considered. The Commission will review the gains and losses for each item of the ARR and make
appropriate adjustments, wherever required:
Provided that for the first Control Period, insofar as the gains and losses from the Retail Supply Business of the
Distribution Licensee are concerned, these will be shared with the consumers on yearly basis.
10.8
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Regulation, the gains or losses in the controllable items of ARR on account of
factors that are beyond the control of the Distribution Licensee - force majeure - shall be passed on as an additional
charge or rebate in ARR over such period as may be specified in the Order of the Commission.
Part -III Principles for Computation of Aggregate Revenue Requirement
11.
Main Items of ARR.
- The Aggregate Revenue Requirement of the Distribution Licensee, for each year of the Control Period, shall contain
the following items:
a. Cost of power procurement
}
for Retail Supply Business alone
b. Transmission charges
c. Load dispatch charges;
(d) Operation and maintenance expenses;
(e) Return on capital employed;
(f) Depreciation;
(g) Taxes on Income;
(h) Corrections for "uncontrollable" items and
"controllable" items (indexed to external parameters);
(i) Any other relevant expenditure
12.
Cost of Power Procurement.
- 12.1 The Distribution Licensee shall be allowed to recover the cost of power it procures, including from State
generators, independent power producers. Central generating stations, non-conventional energy generators, and others,
for supply to consumers, based on the Commission-approved Power Procurement Plan of the Distribution Licensee
covering each year of the Control Period:
Provided that where the procurement is for sale to consumers permitted open access by the Nodal Agency under the
Open Access Regulation or purchase for trading, the Distribution Licensee shall provide an Allocation Statement as
referred to in clause 5 clearly specifying the costs that are attributable to the sales made to such consumers, utilities,
etc.
12.2
Except in the case of Retail Supply Business insofar as for the first Control Period is concerned:
(a)
The Commission shall adopt the Sales Forecast, the Distribution loss trajectory and the Power Procurement Plan
approved as part of the Resource Plan for the purpose of determining the Power Purchase Requirement of the
Distribution Licensee for the Control Period;
(b)
The power procurement plan will not generally require any revisions during the Control Period, and the
Page 7/11
----- PAGE 8 -----
Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (Terms and Conditions for Determination o...
Commission-approved category-wise power procurement forecast shall be applied for estimating the Distribution
Licensees' power procurement requirement for each year of the Control Period;
(c)
While approving the cost of power procurement, the Commission shall determine the quantum of electricity to be
procured, consistent with the power procurement plan, from various sources of supply, in accordance with the principle
of merit order schedule and dispatch, based on a ranking of all approved sources of supply in the order of variable cost
or price.
12.3
For the Retail Supply Business of the Distribution Licensee for the first Control Period, the provisions of clause 12.2 shall
apply mutatis mutandis, on an annual basis.
12.4
The Distribution Licensee shall be entitled to recover or shall refund, as the case may be, the charges on account of
Fuel Surcharge Adjustment as approved by the Commission from time to time, suo motu or based on the filing made by
the Distribution Licensee, as the Commission may deem fit.
13.
Transmission and Load Dispatch Charges.
- 13.1 The Distribution Licensee shall be allowed to recover transmission and load dispatch charges payable to the
Transmission licensees (Central Transmission Utility, State Transmission Utility etc.) and System Operators (Regional
Load Dispatch Centre, State Load Despatch Centre etc.) for access to and use of the inter-state transmission system,
intra-state transmission system and availing load dispatch services on long-term basis in accordance with the tariffs
approved from time to time by CERC and this Commission, as the case may be.
13.2
The Distribution Licensee shall also be allowed to recover the expenses, at the approved level, pertaining to (a) use of
transmission and load dispatch facilities under short-term procurement of power for the Retail Supply Business; and (b)
wheeling charges for use of the distribution system of other Distribution Licensee for procurement of power for the Retail
Supply Business.
14.
Operation and Maintenance Costa.
- 14.1 Operation and Maintenance (O&M) costs shall comprise the following:
(a)
Salaries, wages and other employee costs;
(b)
Administrative and General costs;
(c)
Repairs and maintenance, and
(d)
Other miscellaneous expenses, like legal charges, audit fees, lease charges, rent, rates and taxes, etc.
14.2
The Distribution Licensee in its filings for the Control Period shall submit the consolidated O&M expenses for the Base
Year of the Control Period, and two years preceding the Base Year. The O&M expenses for the Base Year shall be
determined based on latest audited accounts, best estimates of Distribution Licensee of actual O&M expenses for
relevant years and other factors considered relevant. The O&M expenses for the Base Year, if required, will be used for
projecting the expenses for each year of the Control Period.
14.3
The composite O&M expenses permissible towards revenue requirement for each year of the Control Period shall be
determined, by using pre-determined norms or formulae for this purpose. These norms or formulae shall be determined
by the Commission based on Distribution Licensee's submissions in this regard, previous years' actual expenses and
any other factors considered relevant by the Commission.
15.
Return on Capital Employed.
- 15.1 Return on Capital Employed (RoCE) for the RRB for the year T shall be computed in the following manner:
Page 8/11
----- PAGE 9 -----
Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (Terms and Conditions for Determination o...
ROCE     =    WACC  *  RRB
Where,
WACC is the Weighted Average Cost of Capital as fixed by the Commission for the Control period and expressed in
terms of percentage:
RPB is the Regulated Rate Base (the asset base) approved by the Commission for each year of the Control period on
which the Distribution Licensee shall be entitled to earn a return based on the Commission approved Weighted Average
Cost of Capital (WACC).
i: ith year of the Control Period, i =1,2,3 for the first Control Period
? The WACC shall be computed in the following manner;
WACC =| [| D/E1+D/E| ]| * rd+| [| 11+D/E| ]| re
Where
D/E is the Debt to Equity Ratio and shall be determined at the beginning of the Control Period after considering
Distribution Licensee's proposal, previous years' D/E mix, market conditions and other relevant factors
rd is the Cost of Debt and shall be determined at the beginning of the Control Period after considering Distribution
Licensee's proposals, present cost of debt, market conditions and other relevant factors.
re is the Return on Equity and shall be determined at the beginning of the Control Period after considering CERC norms.
Distribution Licensee's proposals, previous years' D/E mix, risks associated with distribution & supply business, market
conditions and other relevant factors.
The Weighted Average Cost of Capital as determined above shall remain unchanged during the Control Period
The Regulated Rate Base (RRB) for the purposes of computing the RoCE for a year of the Control Period will be
computed in the following manner.
RRBi = RRBi-i  + ARAB1 + WCi
Where,
RRBi : Regulated Rate Base for the 1th year of the Control period ARABi: Change in the Rate Base in the ith year of the
Control Period. This component would be the average of the value at the beginning and end of the year as the asset
creation is spread across a year and is arrived at as follows: ARABi = (Invi - Di- CCi)/2 Where,
Invi - Investments projected to be capitalised during the 1th year of the Control Period and approved.
Di :- Amount set aside or written off on account of Depreciation of fixed assets for the 1th year of the Control Period.
CCi: User Contributions pertaining to the ARABi and capital grants/subsidies received during 1th year of the Control
Period for construction of service lines or creation of fixed assets.
RRBi-1 : Regulated Rate Base for the financial year preceding the ith year of the Control period and shall be determined
on the basis of approved Capital Investment Plan referred to in clause 16.1 of this Regulation. For the first year of the
Control period, RRB i-1 will be the Regulated Rate Base for the Base Year i.e. RRBo. The values for the Base Year will
be determined based on the latest audited accounts available, best estimates of the actuals pertaining to the relevant
years and any other factors considered relevant by the Commission.
RRBo  =  OCFAo - ADo - CCo,
where
OCFAo: Original Cost of Fixed Assets at the end of the Base Year available for use and necessary for the purpose of
the licensed business
ADo: Amounts written off or set aside on account of depreciation and advance against depreciation if any, of fixed
assets pertaining to the regulated business at the end of the Base Year
CCo: Total contributions pertaining to the OCFAo, made by the users towards the cost of construction of distribution/
service lines by the Distribution Licensee and also includes the capital grants/ subsidies received for this purpose.
WCi: Working Capital Requirement in the 1th year of the Control Period and shall be considered as being equal to one
twelfth of the Operations and Maintenance expenses as allowed for that year.
16.
Investment Plan.
- 16.1 The Commission shall adopt the Capital Investment Plan approved as part of the Resource Plan in terms of
clause 9 of this Regulation for the purpose of determining the Regulated Rate Base (RRB) at the commencement of the
Control Period:
Provided that for the first Control Period, the Distribution Licensee shall file its Capital Investment Plan for the Control
Page 9/11
----- PAGE 10 -----
Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (Terms and Conditions for Determination o...
Period as part of its Multi-Year Filings for Commission's approval.
16.2
The Distribution Licensee shall seek approval for individual schemes in the Capital Investment Plan at least 90 days
before undertaking the investment in accordance with the Guidelines on Investment Approval. The individual
schemes/projects submitted by the Distribution Licensee for Commission's approval must provide complete details
including those relating to the cost and capitalisation for each year of the Control Period.
16.3
The Commission may provide corrections in the ARR of the Distribution Licensee for subsequent years of the Control
Period to the extent of deviation from the investments approved as part of the Capital Investment Plan. The Distribution
Licensee shall justify the deviations beyond 10 percent for each individual scheme/project and any other material
deviations from the Capital Investment Plan including introduction of, or substitution of existing schemes/projects by,
new scheme/project (s).
17.
Depreciation.
- 17.1 Depreciation shall be computed in the following manner:
17.2
For each year of the Control Period, depreciation shall be calculated on the amount of Original Cost of the Fixed Assets
included in the RRB at the beginning of each year of the Control Period:
Provided that depreciation on assets funded by consumer /user contributions or through any capital subsidy/grant etc
shall not be allowed in the revenue requirement of the Distribution Licensee.
17.3
Depreciation allowance for each year of the Control period shall be determined, generally based on the methodology,
rates and other terms as decided by CERC from time to time.
17.4
Depreciation shall be charged from the 1st April of the following year from the date the asset is put to use.
18.
Taxes on Income.
- 18.1 Taxes on Income, if any, on the income stream of the licensed business of the Distribution Licensee shall be
treated as an expense and shall be recoverable through ARR.
18.2
Taxes on Income actually payable and paid shall be included in the ARR, limited, however, to tax on Return on Equity
component of the Return on Capital Employed, and excluding tax on profit, if any, in excess of such return ( arising out
of any reason, including efficiency of the Distribution Licensee or any explicit incentive provided in the ARR), penalties,
interest on delayed payment of tax, etc. and duly adjusted for any refunds, etc. received for the previous periods.
19.
Corrections for "Uncontrollable" Items and "Controllable" Items and Sharing of Gains/Losses of "Controllable" Items.
- The Distribution Licensee shall file its proposals for pass-through as well as sharing of gains/losses on variations in
"uncontrollable" items of ARR and "controllable" items (indexed to external parameters) in accordance with clause 10 of
this Regulation.
20.
Determination of Full Cost Tariffs for Wheeling and Retail Sale of Electricity.
- The Commission shall determine the Full cost tariffs for Wheeling and Retail sale of electricity to enable the Distribution
Licensee to recover the Aggregate Revenue Requirement approved by the Commission based on an application made
by the Distribution Licensee in accordance with the principles laid down in this Regulation.
Part-IV Miscellaneous
21.
Periodic Reviews.
- To ensure smooth implementation of the Multi-Year Tariff (MYT) Framework, the Commission may undertake periodic
reviews of Distribution Licensees' performance during the Control Period, to address any practical issues, concerns or
unexpected outcomes that may arise, and in general to assess the efficacy of Multi Year Tariff Principles.
22.
Page 10/11
----- PAGE 11 -----
Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (Terms and Conditions for Determination o...
End-of-Control-Period Review.
- 22.1 Towards the end of the Control Period, the Commission will seek to review if the implementation of the principles
laid down in this Regulation has achieved its intended objectives. While doing so. the Commission will take into account,
among other things, the industry structure, sector requirements, consumer and other stakeholder expectations and
Distribution Licensee requirements at that point in time. Depending on the requirements of the sector and to meet the
objects of the Act, the Commission may revise the principles for the subsequent Control Period(s).
22.2
The end-of-the-first Control Period shall be the beginning for the second Control Period and the Distribution Licensee
shall follow the same procedure as specified unless required otherwise by the Commission through appropriate
orders/directions. The Commission shall analyse the performance of the Distribution Licensee with respect to the targets
set out at the beginning of the second and the each subsequent Control Period and based on the actual performance,
expected efficiency improvements and other relevant factors, prevalent, determine the initial values for the next Control
Period.
23.
Power to Amend.
- The Commission may, at any time add, vary, alter, modify, delete or amend any provisions of this Regulation.
24.
Saving.
- 24.1 Nothing in this Regulation shall be deemed to limit or otherwise affect the power of the Commission to make such
orders as may be necessary to meet the ends of justice or to prevent abuse of the process of the Commission.
24.2
Nothing in this Regulation shall bar the Commission from adopting in conformity with the provisions of the Act, a
procedure, at variance with any of the provisions of this Regulation, if the Commission, in view of the special
circumstances of a matter or class of matters and for reasons to be recorded in writing, deems it necessary or expedient
for dealing with such a matter or class of matters.
24.3
Nothing in this Regulation shall, expressly or by implication, bar the Commission from dealing with any matter or
exercising any power under the Act for which no Regulations have been framed, and the Commission may deal with
such matters, exercise such powers and discharge such functions in a manner it deems fit.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 11/11