
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh Language Pandits Grade-II (Regulation of Scale of Pay) Act, 2004
Andhra Pradesh Language Pandits Grade-II (Regulation of Scale of
Pay) Act, 2004
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/19413792/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh Language Pandits Grade-II (Regulation of Scale of Pay) Act, 2004
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh Language Pandits Grade-II (Regulation of Scale of Pay) Act, 2004
Act 1 of 2005
Published on 11 January 2005
Commenced on 11 January 2005
[This is the version of this document as it was from 15 February 2005 to None.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (Fees) Regulation, 2005
(Regulation No. 1 of 2005)
Last Updated 12th September, 2019  [ap486]
Regulation No. 1 of 2005. - Under the provisions of the Electricity Act, 2003, the Commission has to discharge various
functions including the issue of Licences, adjudication of disputes between generating companies and licensees, etc.
Section 86(1)(g) of the Electricity Act, 2003, empowers the Commission to levy fees for the purposes of the Act. The
Commission accordingly formulated a draft regulation for the fees to be paid along with Applications/ Petitions submitted
to the Commission, the fees payable for other miscellaneous activities like inspection of Commission's records, etc, The
draft Regulation was published in A.P. Extraordinary Gazette dated 15.02.2005 seeking comments/suggestions from
Page 1/5
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh Language Pandits Grade-II (Regulation of Scale of Pay) Act, 2004
interested persons. It was also communicated to the Licensees, Members of the State Advisory Committee and certain
organisations, regularly participating in the proceedings on Tariff filings of licensees. The Commission considered the
comments/ modification in certain provisions in the draft Regulation, wherever considered necessary.
In exercise of powers conferred on it under the above provisions read with Section 181 of the Act, and all powers
enabling it in that behalf, the Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission hereby makes the following Regulation.
1.
Short title and commencement.
- (i) This Regulation may be called the Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (Fees) Regulation, 2005.
(ii)
This Regulation shall extend to the whole of the State of Andhra Pradesh.
(iii)
This Regulation shall come into force on the date of its publication in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette, except sub clause (2)
of clause 4 which shall come into force from 1st April, 2006.
2.
Definitions.
-  In this Regulation, unless the context otherwise requires:
(1)
"Act" means the Electricity Act, 2003
(2)
"Licensee" means a person who has been granted a licence under section 14 of the Act;
(3)
"Exemptee" means a person who has been granted exemption under section 13 of the Act;
(4)
"generating company" means any company or body corporate or association or body of individuals, whether
incorporated or not, or artificial juridical person, which owns or operates or maintains a generating station;
(5)
"trading" means purchase of electricity for resale thereof and the expression "trade" shall be construed accordingly;
(6)
Words and expressions used and not defined in this Regulation shall have the same meaning as assigned to them in the
Act and in the absence of any definition in the Act the meaning as commonly understood in the electricity supply
industry.
3.
Applicability.
(1)
Every application / petition to the Commission except the application made for grant of licence under section 14 of the
Act shall be accompanied by the appropriate fee as specified in this Regulation.
(2)
Every application for grant of licence under section 14 of the Act shall be filed along with such fee as may be prescribed
by the Government of Andhra Pradesh (GoAP) from time to time under section 15 (1) of the Act.
(3)
Every Licensee and Exemptee shall pay the Annual fee as specified in this Regulation.
(4)
Miscellaneous activities like supply of certified copies of documents/ orders of the Commission, inspection of the records
of Commission (if permitted) shall be subject to payment, in advance, of the fees specified in this Regulation.
(5)
The Commission may, if it considers fit, waive, by order, full or part of the fees payable under this Regulation.
Note. - All fees mentioned in this Regulation are non-refundable fees, unless specifically mentioned otherwise.
4.
(1)
Fees to be paid with applications for Licence or for Exemption:
(a)
Page 2/5
----- PAGE 3 -----
Andhra Pradesh Language Pandits Grade-II (Regulation of Scale of Pay) Act, 2004
(b)
Type of application
Application for grant
of a transmission /distribution / trading licence
Application for Exemption from licence
As fixed by the State
Govt. from time to time (presently Rs.30,000)
Same as at (a) above
(2)
Annual Licence Fee to be paid by Licensees:
(i)
(ii)
(iii)
(iv)
Type of Licence
Transmission Licence
Distribution Licence
Exemption from
licence
Trading Licence
(i)
(ii)
(iii)
(iv)
Rs.1000 per MW of the
allocated capacity.
0.067 paise per each
unit of energy (kwh) to be handled during the year.
0.067 paise per each
unit of energy (kwh) to be handled during the year.
As specified by APERC in the Regulation on
intra-State trading in electricity.
Notes. - 1. ‘Allocated capacity’ in respect of a transmission licensee means the capacity considered in the Tariff Order of
the Commission for the relevant year for computation of transmission charges.
2. The annual fees are payable within 15 days of the commencement of a financial year. Any delay shall attract a
penalty of 1.5% per month or part thereof.
(3)
Fees to be paid for determination of tariff:
(a)
(b)
Application for
determination of tariff of
Generating Companies
Licensees / exemptees exemption fees
Rs. 10,000 per MW
with a maximum of Rs.25 lakhs
Nil. Covered in the annual licence /payable as
per sub-clause (2) above.
(4)
Fees to be paid along with petitions for adjudication of disputes:
(a)
Page 3/5
----- PAGE 4 -----
Andhra Pradesh Language Pandits Grade-II (Regulation of Scale of Pay) Act, 2004
(b)
For adjudication of a
dispute u/s 33(4) and 86(1) (f) of the Act
For adjudication on adequacy of Transmission
capacity u/s 9 of the Act
Rs. 25,000
Rs.25,000
(5)
Fees to be paid with petitions seeking review of Commission’s orders
(a)
(b)
(c)
For review of orders
under section 64 of the Act / section 26 of the A.P. Electricity
Reform Act
For review of orders
u/s 9, 33(4) and 86(1)(f)
For others
Rs. 10,000
Rs. 5,000
Rs.1,000
Note. - At the discretion of the Commission the above-mentioned fees will be refundable, in part or in full, if the review
petition is allowed in part or in full, as the case may be.
(6)
For any other petitions not covered in the above sub-clauses:
(i)
(ii)
Individuals
Others
Rs.100
Rs.500
(7)
Fees for applications, petitions (including review petitions), etc. to be paid by registered consumer organizations, NGOs
and individuals seeking to protect/represent common interests of consumers/public at large:
Original petition Rs.50/-
Review petition Rs. 100/-
(Refundable in case of a review petition, in accordance with the Note below sub-clause (5) supra)
Note. - 1. On questions, if any, whether or not an organization/individual is seeking to protect/represent the common
interest of consumers/public at large, the decision of the Commission shall be final.
2. No fees is payable for the objections / suggestions made in response to the public notices issued by the Licensees or
the Commission on Tariff proposals of Licensees or the Regulations to be framed by the Commission, etc.
(8)
Fee for miscellaneous services
(a)
(i)
(ii)
(b)
Inspection of records
of the Commission (on permission)
for bulk records
for others
Page 4/5
----- PAGE 5 -----
Andhra Pradesh Language Pandits Grade-II (Regulation of Scale of Pay) Act, 2004
Supply of certified copies of documents/ orders
of the Commission
Rs.700
Rs.100
Re. 1 per page
5.
The fees payable to the Commission under this Regulation shall be paid by means of Demand Draft or Banker’s cheque,
drawn in favour of the Secretary, Andhra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission, payable at a Hyderabad branch of
any scheduled bank. The amounts up to Rs.100 can also be paid in cash at the office of the Commission.
6. Power to remove difficulties.
- If any difficulty arises in giving effect to any of the provisions of this Regulation, the Commission may, by general or
special order, pass appropriate orders, not being inconsistent with the provisions of the Act, which appear it to be
necessary or expedient for the purpose of removing the difficulty.
7. Power to amend.
- The fee structure specified herein can be reviewed, cancelled, modified or enhanced by the Commission at its
discretion, at any appropriate time by a general or special order notified in the Official Gazette of Andhra Pradesh.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 5/5