
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh High Court Right to information Rules, 2005
Andhra Pradesh High Court Right to information Rules, 2005
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/18218268/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh High Court Right to information Rules, 2005
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh High Court Right to information Rules, 2005
Rule ANDHRA-PRADESH-HIGH-COURT-RIGHT-TO-INFORMATION-RULES-2005 of 2005
Published on 1 January 2005
Commenced on 1 January 2005
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 2005.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Andhra Pradesh High Court Right to information Rules, 2005
Published vide Notification No. Roc. No. 852/SO/2005
Last Updated 12th September, 2019
No. Roc. No. 852/SO/2005. - In exercise of the powers conferred under Section 28(1) of the Right to information Act'
2005' and all enabling provisions in that behalf' the Chief Justice of Andhra Pradesh High Court makes the following
Rules for Carrying out the provisions of the Right to Information Act' 2005.
1.
Short title, commencement and application.
- (i) These Rules shall be called the Andhra Pradesh High Court Right to information Rules, 2005.
(ii)
They shall come into force with effect from the date of publication in the Official Gazette.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh High Court Right to information Rules, 2005
(iii)
These Rules shall be applicable to the High Court of Andhra Pradesh' Hyderabad and all the subordinate courts under
the control of the High Court of Andhra Pradesh.
2.
Definitions.
- In these Rules' unless the context otherwise requires:
(a)
'Act' means the Right to information Act' 2005.
(b)
'State Public Information Officer' means the Registrar (Judicial)' High Court of Andhra Pradesh as designated by the
High Court under Section 5(1) of the Act.
(c)
'State Assistant Public Information Officer' means the Administrative Officer/Chief Ministerial Officer as the case may be
as designated by the High Court Under Section 5 (2) of the Act.
(d)
'Registrar (Judicial)' means the Registrar (Judicial)' High Court of Andhra Pradesh.
(e)
'Administrative Officer' means the Administrative Officer of the Principal. District Courts/Chief Judge' City Civil
Court/Chief Judge' City Small Causes Court/Metropolitan Sessions Judge Court/Special Court.
(f)
'Chief Ministerial Officer' means the Chief Ministerial Officers of the Courts presided over by the senior most judicial
Officer at the stations having more than one Court other than the District Head quarters and the Chief Ministerial Officers
of the Courts where there is only one Court at a station.
(g)
'Subordinate Courts'' means and includes City Civil Court' City Small Causes Court' Metropolitan sessions Court' District
Courts' Motor Accidents Claims Tribunals' Senior Civil Judge Courts' Chief Metropolitan Magistrates Courts' Judicial
Magistrate of First Class Courts and Junior Civil Judge Courts etc.
3.
Request for furnishing information.
- Any request for obtaining of information shall be accompanied with a fee of Rs. 25/- (Rupees Twenty five only) paid by
way of adhesive Court fee stamps and the complete address of the applicant for communication.
4.
Fee for providing the information.
- (i) The fee payable for providing the information except by way of inspection of documents or records shall be Rs.5/-
per each page of information (foolscap size)' or as prescribed by the competent authority from time to time and such fee
shall be paid by way of adhesive court fee stamps.
(ii)
The fee for inspection of documents or records shall be Rs. 15/-for each hour or part of an hour and shall be paid by way
of adhesive court fee stamp.
5.
Procedure regarding inspection of documents.
- For the purpose of inspection of documents or records' the applicant shall not cause any hindrance to the Office work
and shall cooperate with the staff and complete the inspection as soon as possible. The Public Information Officer
concerned shall have the right to fix the time and date of the inspection according to administrative convenience and
his/her decision shall be final.
6.
Information to be provided in the form certified copies.
- Information as requested by the party shall be provided in the form of certified copies/xerox copies attested by the
State Public Information Officer/State Assistant Public Information Officer concerned. The applicant shall not be entitled
to take the originals from the custody of the Officer/ Sections concerned.
7.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Andhra Pradesh High Court Right to information Rules, 2005
Register to be maintained.
- The State Public Information Officer/State Assistant Public Information Officers shall maintain a register in the format
as per the appendix and make necessary entries in the register with regard to the requests received and processed.
8.
Appeal.
- The Registrar General' High Court of Andhra Pradesh shall be the Officer to whom an appeal can be preferred under
Sec. 19(1) of the Act.
Appendix
SI.No.
Date of Application
Name and Address of the party
Purpose of request
Fee paid
Information furnished on
Remarks
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3