
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh Mineral Bearing Lands (Infrastructure) Cess Rules, 2005
Andhra Pradesh Mineral Bearing Lands (Infrastructure) Cess Rules,
2005
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/8529872/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh Mineral Bearing Lands (Infrastructure) Cess Rules, 2005
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh Mineral Bearing Lands (Infrastructure) Cess Rules, 2005
Rule ANDHRA-PRADESH-MINERAL-BEARING-LANDS-INFRASTRUCTURE-CESS-RULES-2005 of 2005
Published on 12 September 2005
Commenced on 12 September 2005
[This is the version of this document from 12 September 2005.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Andhra Pradesh Mineral Bearing Lands (Infrastructure) Cess Rules, 2005
Published vide Notification No. G.O. Ms. No. 250, Industries & Commerce (M-I), dated 12.09.2005
Last Updated 16th September, 2019
No. G.O. Ms. No. 250. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 8 of the Andhra Pradesh
Mineral Bearing Lands (Infrastructure) Cess Ordinance, 2005, (Ordinance 22 of 2005) the Government of Andhra
Pradesh hereby makes the Andhra Pradesh Mineral Bearing Lands (Infrastructure) Cess Rules, 2005.
1.
Short title and Commencement.
(1)
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh Mineral Bearing Lands (Infrastructure) Cess Rules, 2005
The rules may be called the Andhra Pradesh Mineral Bearing Lands (Infrastructure) Cess Rules, 2005.
(2)
They shall come into force at once.
2.
Definitions.
- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires:-
(a)
"Ordinance" means the Andhra Pradesh Mineral Bearing Lands (Infrastructure) Cess Ordinance, 2005.
(b)
"Form" means the Form appended to these Rules;
(c)
"Schedule" means the Schedule appended to the Ordinance.
3.
Prescribed Officer.
- The Assistant Director of Mines and Geology or any other officer authorized by the Director of Mines and Geology shall
be the prescribed officer, under sub-section (1) of Section 4 of the Ordinance.
4.
Notice of demand.
- The notice of demand of cess referred to in sub-section (2) of Section 4 of the Ordinance, shall be in the Form
appended to these rules. Every notice of demand shall be issued in Form-A under the signature of the prescribed officer.
The service of the notice shall be effected by delivering or tendering it to the holder of a mining lease concerned or in
his/ her absence to his/her agent or to any adult member of his/her family; or where it is not practicable to so deliver or
tender, by sending it to him to his last known place of residence by registered post acknowledgement due.
5.
Appeal.
- An appeal against any orders or notice of demand passed/issued by the prescribed officer under rule 4 shall lie to the
Director of Mines and Geology in Form-B in triplicate within the period of 60 days from the date of communication of
such order/notice of demand to the party aggrieved and an appeal against an order of the Director of Mines and
Geology shall lie to the Government in like manner. Every said appeal shall be accompanied by a Challan of Rs. 500/-
paid into the Government treasury account in any branch of State Bank of India/State Bank of Hyderabad conducting the
treasury business in the head of account to be specified in this regard. The revision petitioner shall also enclose the
Form-D along with the revision application.
6.
Revision.
- Any revision against the orders in appeal shall be made in triplicate in Form-C within the period as specified under
Section 6 of the ordinance together with a fee of Rs. 1000/-by way of challan paid into the Government treasury account
in any branch of State Bank of India/State Bank of Hyderabad conducting the treasury business in the head of account
to be specified in this regard. The revision petitioner shall also enclose the Form-D along with the revision application.
7.
Maintenance of accounts.
- Every holder of mineral bearing land having Prospecting Licence/Mining Lease/ Quarry Lease shall maintain a true and
correct account of production and dispatches of the minerals specified in the Schedule to this Ordinance, the amounts of
Cess paid therefor, as notified from time to time in Form-D.
Form A
Notice of Demand
(See Rule 4)
To
Take notice that you have been assessed under the Andhra Pradesh Mineral Bearing Lands (Infrastructure) Cess
Ordinance, 2005 (Ordinance 22 of 2005), to a Cess of Rs.__________(in words) (Rupees only) for the
period____________.. The Cess shall be paid within thirty days from the date of service of this notice, by a remittance
into a government Treasury failing which the amount of cess will be recovered as an arrear of land revenue.
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
Andhra Pradesh Mineral Bearing Lands (Infrastructure) Cess Rules, 2005
Prescribed Officer.
Form - B
(Should be submitted in triplicate)
Application for appeal under Rule-5
1. Name and address of individual(s), firm or company, applying.
2. Profession of individual(s), firm or company.
3. No. and date of order of the ADMG/DDM&G/JDMG/DMG. Against which the appeal application is filed (copy
attached).
4. Minor Mineral or Minor Minerals/Major Mineral or Major Minerals for which the appeal application filed.
5. Details of the area in respect of which the appeal application filed.
District
Mandal
Village
Location of mine
6. Details of the mineral/minerals and the quantity for which demand has been raised.
Name of the mineral/ Minerals
Quantity for which demand raised
Amount of demand raised
7. Whether application fee has been deposited in the manner prescribed in Rule 5 if so, the Treasury receipt in original
should be attached.
8.
Whether the appeal application has been filed within time specified in Rule 5. If not, the reasons for not presenting it
within the prescribed limit as provided for in rules.
9.
No, of copies of petitions/applications attached (Rule 5).
10.
Grounds of appeal.
11.
Form D to be enclosed to the application form.
12.
If the appeal application has been filed by the holder of Power of Attorney, the Power of Attorney to be attached.
Place:
Date:
Signature of the applicant
Form - C
(Should be submitted in triplicate)
Application for Revision under Rule-6
1. Name and address of individual(s), firm or company, applying.
2. Profession of individual(s), firm or company.
3. No. and date of order of the ADMG/DDM&G/JDMG/DMG. Against which the Revision application is filed (copy
attached).
4. Minor Mineral or Minor Minerals/Major Mineral or Major Minerals for which the Revision appeal application filed.
5. Details of the area in respect of which the Revision application filed.
District
Mandal
Village
Location of mine
6. Details of the mineral/minerals and the quantity for which demand has been raised.
Name of the mineral/ Minerals
Quantity for which demand raised
Amount of demand raised
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
Andhra Pradesh Mineral Bearing Lands (Infrastructure) Cess Rules, 2005
7. Whether application fee has been deposited in the manner prescribed in Rule 6 if so, the Treasury receipt in original
should be attached.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4