
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh Energy Conservation Fund Rules, 2005
Andhra Pradesh Energy Conservation Fund Rules, 2005
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/23086932/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh Energy Conservation Fund Rules, 2005
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh Energy Conservation Fund Rules, 2005
Rule ANDHRA-PRADESH-ENERGY-CONSERVATION-FUND-RULES-2005 of 2005
Published on 5 October 2005
Commenced on 5 October 2005
[This is the version of this document from 5 October 2005.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Andhra Pradesh Energy Conservation Fund Rules, 2005
Published vide Notification No. G.O. Ms. No. 92. Energy (RES), dated 5.10.2005
Last Updated 11th September, 2019
No. G.O. Ms. No. 92. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 57 read with Section 16 of the Energy
Conservation Act, 2001 (Central Act 52 of 2001), the Government of Andhra Pradesh hereby makes the following rules
for Constitution and Regulation of Andhra Pradesh Energy Conservation Fund:-
1.
Short title and Commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Andhra Pradesh Energy Conservation Fund Rules, 2005.
(2)
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh Energy Conservation Fund Rules, 2005
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, -
(a)
"Act" means the Energy Conservation Act, 2001 (Central Act 52 of 2001);
(b)
"Andhra Pradesh Energy Conservation Fund" means the Fund established under Section 16 of the Act;
(c)
"Government" means Government of Andhra Pradesh;
(d)
"Section" means a Section of the Act; and
(e)
All other words and expressions used herein and not defined but defined in the Act, shall have the meanings
respectively assigned to them in the Act.
3.
Constitution of Andhra Pradesh Energy Conservation Fund.
(1)
The fund constituted under this rule shall be administered by the State Designated Agency as notified under clause (d)
of Section 15 of the Act through P.D. Account.
(2)
Proceeds of the fund shall be utilized for the purpose of promotion and efficient use of energy and its conservation in the
State of Andhra Pradesh.
(3)
The fund shall be credited all grants and loans that may be made by the Government of Andhra Pradesh or central
Government or any other State Government or Quasi Central/State Government Organisations or Central/ State Public
Sector undertakings or any individual or any corporate body.
4.
Purpose for which the fund shall be applied.
(1)
To meet the expenditure incurred by the Designated Agency to take all measures to create awareness and disseminate
information for efficient use Of energy and its conservation and for undertaking awareness programme for consumers,
industrial & commercial sectors, school children, farmers and others.
(2)
To meet the expenditure incurred by the Designated Agency for training of personnel and Specialists for efficient use of
energy and its conservation;
(3)
For promotion of Research & Development in the field of energy conservation.
(4)
To develop testing and certification procedure, in creation of testing facilities for certification and or verification testing for
energy consumption of equipments and appliances;
(5)
To formulate and facilitate implementation of Pilot projects and demonstration projects for promotion of efficient use of
energy and its conservation or to provide matching contribution for such projects taken up by Bureau of Energy
Efficiency.
(6)
To promote the use of energy Efficient processes from the equipments, devices and systems;
(7)
To meet the matching grant to the centrally sponsored schemes and schemes of Bureau of Energy Efficiency
implemented In the State of Andhra Pradesh;
(8)
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Andhra Pradesh Energy Conservation Fund Rules, 2005
To meet the expenses incurred by the Designated Agency for implementing the Provisions of the Act.
5.
Operation of the Fund.
(1)
The Designated Agency is notified under clause (d) of Section 15 of the Act shall operate the fund;
(2)
Expenditure for any item in excess of Rs. 5.00 lakh shall be incurred with the prior approval of State level steering
Committee for Energy Conservation as constituted by Government of Andhra Pradesh from time to time;
(3)
Any expenditure below Rs. 5.00 lakh or as fixed by Government from time to time shall be incurred by the Designated
Agency and the Designated Agency shall furnish the details of such expenditure on quarterly basis to the State Level
Steering Committee or at such other interval as prescribed by Government of Andhra Pradesh;
(4)
The Designated Agency shall maintain accounts for the funds and shall furnish the Income and Expenditure to the
above State Level Steering Committee on quarterly basis or at such other interval as prescribed by Government of
Andhra Pradesh from time to time.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3