
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh Right to Information (Regulation of free and cost) Rules, 2005
Andhra Pradesh Right to Information (Regulation of free and cost)
Rules, 2005
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/4498955/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh Right to Information (Regulation of free and cost) Rules, 2005
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh Right to Information (Regulation of free and cost) Rules, 2005
Rule ANDHRA-PRADESH-RIGHT-TO-INFORMATION-REGULATION-OF-FREE-AND-COST-RULES-2005 of 2005
Published on 13 October 2005
Commenced on 13 October 2005
[This is the version of this document from 13 October 2005.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Andhra Pradesh Right to Information (Regulation of free and cost) Rules, 2005
Published vide Notification No. G.O.Ms. No. 454, dated 13.10.2005
Last Updated 11th September, 2019
Notification No. G.O.Ms. No. 454. - In exercise of the powers conferred by clauses (b) and (c) of sub-section (2) of
section 27 of the Right to Information Act, 2005 (Central Act 22 of 2005). Government of Andhra Pradesh hereby makes
the following rules, namely:-
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh Right to Information (Regulation of free and cost) Rules, 2005
These Rules may be called the Andhra Pradesh Right to Information (Regulation of free and cost) Rules, 2005.
(2)
. They shall come into force from the date of publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires:-
(a)
'State' means, the State of Andhra Pradesh;
(b)
'Act' means, the Right to Information Act, 2005;
(c)
'Section' means section of the Act;
(d)
'Commission' means, the State Information Commission, constituted under Section15 (1) of the Act;
(e)
All other words and expressions used here in but not defined and defined in the Act shall have the meanings assigned to
them in the Act.
3.
Application fee to accompany request for obtaining Information.
- A request for obtaining information under sub-section (1) of section 6 shall be accompanied by an application fee by
way of cash or by demand draft or by bankers' Cheque payable to the Accounts Officer or any other duly authorized
officer of the Public Authority, against proper receipt, at the following rates:-
(a)
In respect of public authorities at the Village Level-no fee;
(b)
In respect of public authorities at Mandal Level-Rs.5/- per application
(c)
In respect of public authorities other than those covered above-Rs.10/- per application;
4.
Fee to be charged for providing Information.
- For providing information under sub-section(1) or sub-section (5) of Section 7, a fee shall be charged, by way of cash
or demand draft or bankers' Cheque, payable to the Accounts Officer or any other duly authorized officer of the Public
Authority, against proper receipt, at the following rates:-
(A)
Priced Material. - Publications printed matter, text, maps, plans, floppies, CDs, samples, models or material in any other
form, which are priced, the sale price thereof;
(B)
Other than priced material. - I. Material in printed or text form (in A4 or A3 size paper) Rs.2/- per each page per copy;
II. Material in printed or text form in larger than A4 and A3 size paper-actual cost thereof;
III. Maps and Plans-actual cost thereof;
IV. Information in Electronic format viz. Floppy, CD or DVD:
(a)
Rupees fifty for Floppy of 1.44 MB;
(b)
Rupees one hundred for CD of 700 MB; and
(c)
Rupees two hundred for CD (DVD)
V. Samples and models-actual cost thereof;
VI. Inspection of records-no fee for the first hour; and a fee of rupees five for each fifteen minutes (or fraction thereof)
thereafter;
VII. Material to be sent by post-the actual postal charges in addition to the charge payable as per these rules.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Andhra Pradesh Right to Information (Regulation of free and cost) Rules, 2005
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3