
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh Un-aided, Minority Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions into...
Andhra Pradesh Un-aided, Minority Professional Institutions
(Regulation of Admissions into Post Graduate Medical and Dental
Professional Courses) Rules, 2006
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/93537701/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh Un-aided, Minority Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions into Post Graduate Medical and
Dental Professional Courses) Rules, 2006
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh Un-aided, Minority Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions into Post Graduate Medical and
Dental Professional Courses) Rules, 2006
Rule
ANDHRA-PRADESH-UN-AIDED-MINORITY-PROFESSIONAL-INSTITUTIONS-REGULATION-OF-ADMISSIONS-INTO
-POST-GRADUATE-MEDICAL-AND-DENTAL-PROFESSIONAL-COURSES-RULES-2006 of 2006
Published on 23 March 2006
Commenced on 23 March 2006
[This is the version of this document from 23 March 2006.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Andhra Pradesh Un-aided, Minority Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions into Post Graduate Medical and
Dental Professional Courses) Rules, 2006
Published vide Notification No. G.O. Ms. No. 80, Health, Medical & Family Welfare (E-2), dated 23.03.2006
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh Un-aided, Minority Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions into...
Last Updated 12th September, 2019
Notification No. G.O. Ms. No. 80. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sections 3 and 15 of the Andhra Pradesh
Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admission and Prohibition of Capitation Fee) Act, 1983 (A.P. Act No. 5 of 1983)
the Governor of Andhra Pradesh hereby makes the following Rules for admission into the Post Graduate Professional
Courses in Medical and Dental in Un-aided Minority Professional Institutions in the State in supersession of the Andhra
Pradesh Un-aided Minority Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions into Post Graduate Medical and Dental
Professional Courses) Rules, 2003 issued in G.O.Ms.No. 47, HM & FW (E2) Department, dated 07-02-2004 as
subsequently amended:-
1.
Short title, applicability and commencement.
- (i) These Rules may be called the Andhra Pradesh Un-aided, Minority Professional Institutions (Regulation of
Admissions into Post Graduate Medical and Dental Professional Courses) Rules, 2006.
(ii)
They shall apply to all Un-aided Minority Professional Institutions imparting Post Graduate Professional Education in
Medical and Dental Courses for which admissions shall be made to the "Management seats" in such manner as
prescribed herein.
(iii)
These Rules shall come not force from the academic year 2006-2007.
2.
Definitions.
(1)
In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires:
(i)
"Act" means the Andhra Pradesh Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admission and Prohibition of Capitation Fee)
Act, 1983 (A.P. Act No. 5 of 1983).
(ii)
"Competent Authority" means the Vice Chancellor, NTR University of Health Sciences, Andhra Pradesh, Vijayawada.
(iii)
"Inspecting Authority" means the Authority appointed by the Competent Authority for inspecting and scrutinising the
Admissions of the candidates made in the Unaided Minority Professional Institutions.
(iv)
"Institutions" means, unless otherwise specifically mentioned, all the Un-aided Minority Professional Institutions
imparting Professional Education in Medical and Dental courses.
(v)
"Local Area" means the territorial jurisdiction prescribed for identifying the local candidate.
(vi)
"Local Candidate" means the Candidate in relation to the local area as specified in Presidential Order.
(vii)
"Qualifying Examination" means the examination of the minimum qualification prescribed which entitles one to seek
admission into the relevant Professional Post Graduate Course.
(2)
Words and expressions used but not defined in these rules shall have the same meaning as assigned to them in the
Andhra Pradesh Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admission and Prohibition of Capitation Fee) Act. 1983 (Act No.
5 of 1983).
3.
Allotment of seats.
- All the seats shall be filled up by the Management i.e. Private Un-aided Minority Professional Institutions with the
eligible candidates by giving preference to Minorities, subject to the condition that the Institution shall admit Minority
candidates in atleast
70.
% of the total seats in order to retain the status of a Minority College.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Andhra Pradesh Un-aided, Minority Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions into...
4.
Un-filled seats.
- The Un-filled seats shall be filled by the Competent Authority NTR University of Health Sciences as per merit.
5.
Admission Process.
- The Management shall devise a system that is fair, transparent and non-exploitative while admitting students.
6.
Fee structure.
- The Committee constituted for fixation of fee for Private Un-aided Minority Professional Institution shall fix the fee,
taking into consideration the recurring and nonrecurring expenditure.
Note. - This fees structure is applicable for the admissions made for the academic year 2006-2007.
7.
Capitation fees.
- The Management shall not charge any capitation fee or resort to collect any other amount in any form, other than the
fee fixed under Rule 6.
8.
Submission of Bond by P.G. Student.
- The Post Graduate student admitted into the institution shall execute a bond to the Management for payment of total
course fee of two/three years, if he/she discontinues the course midstream.
9.
Cut off date for admissions.
- The Competent Authority, the Management of the concerned Private Unaided Minority Colleges shall close the
admission process on such date as notified by the Competent Authority i.e. NTR UHS. Subsequent to this date no
admissions in the Private Un-aided Minority Professional Institutions shall be made.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3