
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh Un-aided Minority Professional Institutions (Regulations of Admissions into...
Andhra Pradesh Un-aided Minority Professional Institutions
(Regulations of Admissions into Under Graduate Medical and Dental
Professional Course Rules, 2006
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/129154560/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh Un-aided Minority Professional Institutions (Regulations of Admissions into Under Graduate Medical
and Dental Professional Course Rules, 2006
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh Un-aided Minority Professional Institutions (Regulations of Admissions into Under Graduate Medical
and Dental Professional Course Rules, 2006
Rule
ANDHRA-PRADESH-UN-AIDED-MINORITY-PROFESSIONAL-INSTITUTIONS-REGULATIONS-OF-ADMISSIONS-INT
O-UNDER-GRADUATE-MEDICAL-AND-DENTAL-PROFESSIONAL-COURSE-RULES-2006 of 2006
Published on 10 July 2006
Commenced on 10 July 2006
[This is the version of this document from 10 July 2006.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Andhra Pradesh Un-aided Minority Professional Institutions (Regulations of Admissions into Under Graduate Medical
and Dental Professional Course Rules, 2006
Published vide Notification No. G.O. Ms. No. 272, Health Medical & Family Welfare (El), dated 10.07.2006
Page 1/5
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh Un-aided Minority Professional Institutions (Regulations of Admissions into...
Last Updated 12th September, 2019
No. G.O. Ms. No. 272. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sections 3 and 15 of the Andhra Pradesh Educational
Institutions (Regulation of Admission and Prohibition of Capitation Fee) Act, 1983 (A.P. Act
No.5 of 1983
) and in super session of the Andhra Pradesh Un-aided Minority Professional Institutions (Regulations of Admissions
into Under Graduate Medical and Dental Professional Courses) Rules, 2004, issued in G.O.Ms.No.217, H.M.&F.W(El)
Department, dated: 23-7-2004 and subsequent amendments made thereto, the Governor of Andhra Pradesh hereby
makes the following Rules for admission into the Under Graduate Professional Courses in Medical and Dental in
Un-aided Minority Professional Institutions in the State.
1.
Short title applicability and commencement.
- (i) These rules may be called the Andhra Pradesh Un-aided Minority Professional Institutions (Regulations of
Admissions into Under Graduate Medical and Dental Professional Course Rules, 2006.
(ii)
They shall apply to all Un-aided Minority Professional Institutions imparting Under-Graduate Professional Courses in
Medical and Dental Courses for which admissions shall be made to the "EAMCET ranking based Management seats"
and "Management Seats" in such manner as prescribed herein.
(iii)
These rules shall came into force from the academic year 2006-2007.
2.
Definitions.
- (i) In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires;
(a)
"Act" means the Andhra Pradesh Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admission and Prohibition of Capitation Fee)
Act, 1983 (A.P. Act. No. 5 of 1983):
(b)
"Common Entrance Test" means EAMCET, the examination conducted for assigning rank or merit to candidates, which
will be the basis for admission of the candidates into EAMCET based Management Seats etc. except the Management
Seats for the first year of under Graduate Courses concerned in various Un-aided Minority Professional Institutions in
the State:
(c)
"EAMCET Ranking Based Management Seats for Minority Candidates" means the seats earmarked from out of the
sanctioned intake of the seats in each course and in each college to be filled by the Minority Institutions with the Minority
Students on the basis of EAMCET ranking.
(d)
"Inspecting Authority" means the Authority appointed by the Government for inspecting and scrutinizing the admissions
of the candidates made in the Un-aided Minority Professional Institutions:
(e)
"Institution" means, unless otherwise specifically mentioned, all the Un-aided Minority Professional Institutions imparting
professional education in Medical and Dental Courses.
(f)
"Management Seats" means the seats earmarked from out of the sanctioned intake of seats in each course to be filled
by the Management of the Un-aided Minority Professional Institutions in the order of merit in a transparent manner.
(g)
"Qualified candidate in respect of seats to be filled by EAMCET ranking based Management (Minority) Seats" means the
candidate who has appeared for the Common Entrance Test for admission into the related Professional Courses and
has been assigned ranking in the Common Merit List as per Rule 5 of the A.P. Common Entrance Test for entry into
Engineering, Architecture. Pharmacy, Agriculture, Medical and Dental Courses Rules, 2004.
(h)
"Qualified Candidate in respect of Management seats shall be as specified in Rule 3 (d).
(i)
Page 2/5
----- PAGE 3 -----
Andhra Pradesh Un-aided Minority Professional Institutions (Regulations of Admissions into...
"Qualifying Examination" means the examination of the minimum Qualification prescribed for passing of which entitles
one to seek admission into the relevant Professional Courses.
(ii)
Words and expressions used but not defined in these rules shall have the same meaning as assigned to them in the
Andhra Pradesh Educational Institutions Regulation of Admission and Prohibition of Capitation Fee Act, 1983 (A.P. Act
5 of 1983
) unless otherwise defined by the Government in Health Medical and Family Welfare Department or by the Dr. NTRUHS.
3.
Eligibility Criteria for Admission.
- Admission into various courses in different Professional Educational Institutions shall be governed by the rules of
admission prescribed herein. The eligibility criteria for admission into Medical and Dental Courses shall be as mentioned
below:
(a)
Age Limit. - Candidates should have completed the age of seventeen years on or before 31s' December of the year of
admission.
(b)
Educational Qualifications. - The candidates should pass two years intermediate examination (10+2 pattern) or
equivalent examination with Physics, Chemistry, Botany, Zoology and English individually and must have obtained a
minimum of 50% marks taken together in Physics, Chemistry. Botany and Zoology at the qualifying examination.
4.
Allotment of seats.
- The seats to be allotted in each Un-aided Minority professional Institution under these Rules for Admission of
Candidates shall be classified as:
Category - A - (70% of the sanctioned intake of the seats) EAMCET Based Management seats:- These seats shall be
filled by the Management of the Minority Institutions in a transparent manner based on EAMCET merit candidates
belonging to the concerned Minorities.
Category - B (30% of the sanctioned intake of the seats) Management Seats: -These seats shall be filled by the
individual Minority Institutions college in the order of merit in a transparent manner as specified in Rule 6 (b).
5.
Authority for Admissions.
(a)
Category-A (EAMCET based Management Seats): All the EAMCET based Management seats under Category A, shall
be filled by the Management of the Minority Institutions. These seats shall be filled by the Management of the Minority
Institutions in a transparent manner based on EAMCET merit with candidates belonging to the concerned Minorities.
(b)
Category -B (Management Seats). - These seats shall be filled by the individual college Management in the order of
merit in a transparent manner.
6.
Procedure for Admission.
(a)
To fill up EAMCET based Management seats:
(A - Category 70% of the Sanctioned intake of the seats)
(i)
A Committee for admissions shall be constituted by the Management of Minority Institution under these rules.
(ii)
The committee will made advertisements calling for single application form in the prescribed proforma from the eligible
qualified candidates who have been assigned ranking in the Common Entrance Test, desirous of seeking admission in
Private un-aided Minority colleges to be filled in respect the EAMCET based Management seats.
(iii)
The candidates who are qualified to seek admission as a consequence of obtaining ranking in the Common Entrance
Test and desires of seeking admission into the Unaided Minority Professional Institutions shall make application to the
Page 3/5
----- PAGE 4 -----
Andhra Pradesh Un-aided Minority Professional Institutions (Regulations of Admissions into...
Management of the Minority Institution enclosing all the relevant documents including a copy of rank card issued. The
application shall be acknowledged.
(iv)
The management of the Minority Institutions shall scrutinize all the applications received from the candidates, after such
scrutiny the Management of the Minority Institutions shall prepare the following merit list namely:-
(a)
Merit list containing the names of the concerned minority candidates arranged in the order of merit ranking assigned to
them in the Common Entrance Test.
(b)
In case of same rank being obtained by more than one candidate, the marks obtained in Physics, Chemistry, Botany
and Zoology shall be reckoned.
(c)
In case of a further tie, the older candidate shall be given the higher place in the merit list.
(v)
Candidates will be called for an interview in the order of merit for selection and allotment of seat in course and
institution:
(a)
All the candidates called for interview shall submit the specified original documents along with one set of duly attested
photocopies and the Committee for admissions shall be entitled to cause verification of all the documents produced by
the candidates.
(b)
Mere appearance at the Entrance Test and obtaining high rank in the merit list does not entitle a candidate to be
considered for admission automatically into any course/institution unless he/she also satisfies the rules and regulations
of admission prescribed by the Dr. NTR University of Health Sciences/ Government including marks to be obtained in
the qualifying examination etc.
(vi)
Once a candidate secures admission to a particular college/ institution based on his/her option, no further claim for
admission into other college/institution, to any other kind of seat or any other course will be entertained, except as
provided by the committee for admissions in the subsequent counselling, if any.
(vii)
A candidate after selection and allotment to a college/course can withdrawn from the course only, with-in one day the
date of admission as notified by the Management of Minority Institutions then the fee paid by the candidate shall be
refunded.
(viii)
The Selection shall be made only from among the candidates who physically present themselves when called in order of
merit. Claims of the candidates shall not be considered if they are absent when called thrice at the time of selection and
the next in the merit shall be called.
(ix)
Resultant vacancies will be open to all the candidates below the rank of candidates who have not jointed the course and
the candidates who were absent in the earlier selection. Resultant vacancies shall be filled by the candidates belonging
to the same category of the seats as those who have not joined the course or vacated the seat.
(x)
The committee for admissions shall have the power to cancel the selection or admission of the candidates at any stage
if it is detected either during selection or before closure of admissions that the selection or admission is against to the
regulation.
(xi)
All the candidates selected should undergo Medical Examination as directed by the Head of the Institutions concerned.
The admission of the candidates shall be subject to their fitness in the Medical examination.
(xii)
The Committee for admissions shall prepare the final list of candidates admitted and send the same to Dr. NTR
University of Health Sciences.
Page 4/5
----- PAGE 5 -----
Andhra Pradesh Un-aided Minority Professional Institutions (Regulations of Admissions into...
(b)
to Fill up Management Seats
(B - Category - 30 of the sanctioned intake of the seats).
(a)
" Management Seats" - the seats shall be filled up by the individual college Managements in the order of merit in the
transparent manner following the procedure as detailed below:
(1)
Applications shall be called for from prospective candidates seeking admission in the individual colleges.
(2)
The college shall issue a receipt for the applications received.
(3)
The college shall display the list of applications received and prepare a merit list based on the marks obtained in the
qualifying examination.
(4)
Admissions shall be made by college based on merit list so prepared.
(b)
The candidates who have passed the qualifying examination not from the State have to submit the equivalency
certificate to NTR University of Health Sciences. Vijayawada, A.P.
7.
Cut off date for admissions.
- The Management shall close and complete the admission process as per the schedule fixed by the Medical Council of
India/ Dental Council of India/ Dr. NTR University of Health Sciences as the case may be.
8.
Fees for Private Un-aided Minority Medical and Dental Colleges.
- The fee the Medical and Dental Courses i.e., MBBS/BDS Courses in Unaided Minority Institutions shall be determined
by the Government from time to time based on the recommendations of the Fee Structure Committee constitution by the
Government for the purpose from time to time.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 5/5