
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj (Functions of Panchayat Secretary) Rules, 2007
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj (Functions of Panchayat Secretary)
Rules, 2007
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/112119209/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj (Functions of Panchayat Secretary) Rules, 2007
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj (Functions of Panchayat Secretary) Rules, 2007
Rule ANDHRA-PRADESH-PANCHAYAT-RAJ-FUNCTIONS-OF-PANCHAYAT-SECRETARY-RULES-2007 of 2007
Published on 18 May 2007
Commenced on 18 May 2007
[This is the version of this document from 18 May 2007.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj (Functions of Panchayat Secretary) Rules, 2007
Published vide Notification No. G.O. Ms. No. 199, Panchayat Raj and Rural Development (MDL-2), dated 18.05.2007
Last Updated 25th September, 2019
(Relating to The Functions of Panchayat Secretary Under Section 268 Read With 36(5))
No. G.O. Ms. No. 199. - In exercise of the powers conferred under Section 268 read with sub-section (6) of Section 36 of
the Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act, 1994, (A.P. Act
No. 13 of 1994
) and in super5session of the Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj (Functions of Panchayat Secretaries) Rules 2002 issued
in G.O.Ms.No. 4 P.R. & R.D. (Mdl. II) Department, dated 7-1-2002, the Governor of Andhra Pradesh hereby makes the
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj (Functions of Panchayat Secretary) Rules, 2007
following rules.
1.
Short title.
- These rules may be called the Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj (Functions of Panchayat Secretary) Rules, 2007.
Functions of Panchayat Secretary
I. Administrative Functions:
1. He/She shall maintain the required registers of the Gram Panchayat and collect taxes promptly.
2.
He/she is subordinate to the Gram Panchayat and shall function under the control of the Sarpanch of the Gram
Panchayat.
3.
He/she convene the meeting of the Gram Panchayat as directed by Sarpanch.
4.
He/she shall attend the meeting of the Gram Panchayat or any committee thereon.
5.
He/she shall implement the resolutions of he Gram Panchayat and of the committees thereof.
6.
He/she shall take the responsibility of the protection of Panchayat lands and properties.
7.
He/she shall report of encroachments, damage or misuse of Panchayat lands and buildings if any to the higher
authorities.
8.
He/she shall assist authorities during the floods, cyclone, accidents, etc., and take up preventive, relief and rehabilitation
work.
9.
He/she shall report any outbreak of communicable diseases especially Malaria, Japanese encephalitis and
Gastroenteritis and other such diseases to the nearest primary Health Center immediately.
10.
He/she shall monitor the anti malaria spraying of insecticides in the villages.
11.
He/she shall assist the integrated child development scheme functionaries in implementing their various activities.
12.
He/she shall maintain births and deaths registration primarily as per act and rules and also issue Birth and Death
Certificates. Supply copy of Birth and death information to the Revenue Department (concerned
Tahsildars/Dy.Tahsildars) by 5th of succeeding month with proper acknowledgement.
13.
He/she shall assist Gram Sabha in the identification of beneficiaries, disbursement of loans and their recoveries.
14.
He/she shall perform election duties.
15.
He/she shall report outbreak of epidemics.
16.
He/she shall report cases of atrocities against Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.
17.
He/she shall report on the atrocities against women and children to the authorities concerned and to take action within
24 hours.
18.
He/she strive for eradication of untouchability by providing access to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in
temples and removal of discrimination in all forms against the Scheduled Caste/Schedule Tribe population.
19.
He/she shall assist in giving information to the concerned officials about any black market sales of seeds fertilizers and
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj (Functions of Panchayat Secretary) Rules, 2007
pesticides.
II. Functions under Community Welfare and Development:
1. He/she shall assist in work relating to payment of old age pension, widow pension, disabled pension.
2. He/she shall furnish the particulars about implementation of developmental activities.
3. He/she shall prepare the draft list of heads of households under the poverty link, keeping the names starting with the
lowest levels of income and upward.
4. He/she should identify the needs of village and assist in preparation of village plans.
5. He /she shall motivate the women for formation of new self help groups by encouraging the habit of thrift, impart best
principles of group management in the self help groups through regular training and capacity building.
6. He/she shall attend monthly staff meetings, convened by President, Mandal Praja Parishad and Mandal Parishad
Development Officer and other meetings convened by District Officers.
7. He/she shall attend meetings of V.T.D.A. and assist V.T.D.A. in preparation of Micro plans and in implementing them.
8. He/she shall assist agricultural development in implementing its programmes and disseminate extension information.
9. He/she shall assist in implementation of Indiramma Programme, Indira Prabha and Employment Guarantee scheme.
10. He/she shall organize to collect the details of seedlings planted in each location, motivate the concerned to protect
them and collect percentage of survival periodically.
11. He/she shall assist the education department in their enrolment drive.
12. He/she shall assist in conducting the literacy classes.
13. (a) He/she shall assist in maintaining and up keeping of Gram Panchayat Information Boards.
(b)
He/she shall assist in maintaining of information Boards relating to assets in the villages.
III. Functions of Co-ordination:
1. He/she shall maintain list of beneficiaries under various schemes and mobilize the public participation for joint forest
management/ Community forest development.
2. He/she shall organize meetings and group discussions among villagers for Community work.
IV. Miscellaneous Functions:
He/she shall attend to any other duties as assigned by the authorities from time to time.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3