
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh Regulation of Unapproved and Illegal Layout Rules, 2007
Andhra Pradesh Regulation of Unapproved and Illegal Layout Rules,
2007
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/53936274/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh Regulation of Unapproved and Illegal Layout Rules, 2007
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh Regulation of Unapproved and Illegal Layout Rules, 2007
Rule ANDHRA-PRADESH-REGULATION-OF-UNAPPROVED-AND-ILLEGAL-LAYOUT-RULES-2007 of 2007
Published on 31 December 2007
Commenced on 31 December 2007
[This is the version of this document from 31 December 2007.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Andhra Pradesh Regulation of Unapproved and Illegal Layout Rules, 2007
Published vide Notification No. G.O. Ms. No. 902, Municipal Administration and Urban Development (M1), dated
31.12.2007
Last Updated 19th September, 2019
No. G.O. Ms. No. 902. - In exercise of powers vested in Section 58 of the A.P. Urban Areas (Development) Act, 1975.
Section 585 of the HMC Act, 1975, Section 44 (2) (v) of the AP Town Planning Act, 1920, and Section 326 (1) of the AP
Municipalities Act, 1965, the Government of Andhra Pradesh hereby issue the following Rules, viz:
1.
These Rules may be called "The Andhra Pradesh Regulation of Unapproved and Illegal Layout Rules, 2007" and they
Page 1/8
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh Regulation of Unapproved and Illegal Layout Rules, 2007
shall come into force from the date of publication in A.P. Gazette.
2.
Applicability.
- (i) These Rules shall be applicable to all Urban Development Authorities, Municipal Corporations, Municipalities and
Gram Panchayats falling in the Master Plan limits in the State of Andhra Pradesh.
(ii)
These Rules and conditions herein shall be applicable to all existing unapproved sub-division of plots, existing
unapproved layouts or ventures promoted by land owners/ private d envelopers/firms/ companies/property developers/
Societies where the plots have been sold by registered sale deed before the date of notification of these rules.
(iii)
These Rules are only intended for regulating the unplanned development and shall be applicable to all unapproved
layout areas which have clearance from the competent authorities under the Urban Land Ceiling and Regulation Act,
1976, AP Land Reforms (Ceiling on Agricultural Holdings) Act, 1973 wherever required and which have not been
entered in the Prohibitory Register of lands maintained by the Revenue Department. The Regulation measure would not
absolve the plots o layout from the application of Land ceiling Laws, land disputes or claims over title, boundary
disputes, etc. In respect of assigned lands prior clearance from the District (collector shall be obtained.
(iv)
In the event of only some plot holders coming forward for regulation in an unapproved layout, the layout pattern as
approved by the competent authority shall be applicable to the entire layout area. The local authority shall be
responsible for enforcing such approved layout pattern.
3.
Definitions.
- (i) "unapproved/illegal layout" means sub-division of land into plots with or without developed roads, open spaces and
amenities and without the approval of the competent authority.
(ii)
"Competent Authority" means-
(a)
the Vice Chairman of the Urban Development Authority in case of areas falling in UDA area;
(b)
The Commissioner of Municipal Corporation in case of areas falling to Municipal Corporations and not covered by Urban
Development Authorities;
(c)
Municipal Commissioner in case of Municipalities and Nagar Panchayats not within the jurisdiction of Urban
Development Authorities
(d)
The Gram Panchayats in respect of Gram Panchayat areas covered by Master Plan and falling outside Municipal limits
and UDA areas
(iii)
"Minimum standards of layout development" means the standards of facilities and amenities as prescribed by the
competent authority in approving such unapproved layouts.
(iv)
"Minimum standards of layout norms" means the standards of layout norms and pattern as prescribed by the competent
authority in approving such unapproved layouts.
(v)
"Plot holder" means a person on whose name the plot is registered with a registered sale deed prior to the notification of
these rules.
Terms and expressions which are not defined in these Rules shall have the same meaning as in the respective Rules/
Regulations/Bye-laws of the respective local authorities and as defined in the National Building Code or relevant Acts as
the case may be unless the context otherwise requires.
4.
Cut-off date for considering regulation of unapproved layouts.
Page 2/8
----- PAGE 3 -----
Andhra Pradesh Regulation of Unapproved and Illegal Layout Rules, 2007
- Only those unapproved layouts and subdivision of plots with registered sale deed/ title deed existing prior to the date of
notification of these rules, shall be considered for regulation under these rules. As proof and evidence, the plot
holder/Land owner/Association/Society/ Colony developer is required to furnish copies of the sale deed/title deed.
Agreement of sale or General Power of Attorney shall not be considered as evidence.
5.
Restrictions on approval in vicinity of Certain Areas.
(a)
No layout/development activity shall be allowed in the bed of water bodies like river, or nala, and in the Full Tank Level
(FTL) of any lake, pond, cheruvu or kunta and in shikam lands.
(b)
The above water bodies and courses shall be maintained as recreational/ Green buffer zone, and no layout
development activity other than recreational use shall be carried out within:
(i)
30 m. from the boundary of river course/Lakes of area of 10 Ha and above;
(ii)
9 m from the boundary of lakes of area less than 10 Ha/ Kuntas/Shilkam lands;
(iii)
9 m from the boundaries of Canal, Vagu, etc.
(iv)
2 m from the defined boundary of Nala
(c)
Unless and otherwise stated, the area and the Full Tank Level (FTL) of a lake/kunta shall be reckoned as per the master
Plan/Revenue Records/Irrigation records.
(d)
Unless and otherwise specified in the Master Plan/Zonal Development Plan.
(i)
In case of (b) (i) above, in addition to development of recreational /green belt along the foreshores, a ring road or
promenade of minimum 12 m may be developed, wherever feasible,
(ii)
The above greenery/landscaping and development shall conform to the guidelines and provisions of the National
Building Code of India, 2005.
(e)
For layout development activity within the restricted zone near the airport or within 500 m distance from the boundary of
Defence areas/ Military establishments, necessary clearance from the concerned Airport Authority/Defence Authority
shall be obtained.
(f)
In case of sites in the vicinity of oil/gas pipelines, clear distance and other stipulations of the respective authority shall be
complied with.
(g)
For areas covered under G.O.Ms. Ill, MA, dated 8-3-1996 (protection of Catchment area of Osmanasgar and
Himayatsagar lakes), apart from the provisions of statutory' Master Plan of HUDA/HADA, the restrictions on layout and
development activity imposed in the said Government orders would be applicable.
(h)
No approval shall be considered in sites which are earmarked for Industrial Use Zone/Recreational Use Zone/Water
Body in notified Master Plans/Zonal Development Plans.
(i)
Open Spaces earmarked in any approved layout shall not be considered for regulation under these Rules.
6.
Compulsory Application for Regulation.
- It shall be compulsory for all plot owners in unapproved layouts to file an application in the prescribed format for
regulation of the plot/layout before the Competent Authority to apply for regulation for plots having registered sale deed
Page 3/8
----- PAGE 4 -----
Andhra Pradesh Regulation of Unapproved and Illegal Layout Rules, 2007
executed prior to date of notification of these rules within  [on or before 31-5-2008]
[Substituted, for the words 90 days by G.O. Ms. No. 113, M.A. & U.D. (M1), Department, dated 31-01-2008 and again
substituted, by G.O. Ms. No. 272, for in words 'on or before 30-4-2008' and again subs, by G.O.Ms. No.329, dated
30-4-2008.]
from the date of notification of these rules duly enclosing the following documents;
I. Copy of registered sale deed/title executed prior to the date of notification of these rules duly attested by a gazetted
officer.
II. Location Plan
III. Detailed Layout Plan drawn to scale showing plotted area, open area, area under roads and the plot/plots applied for
regulation.
IV. (a) Urban land Ceiling Clearance Certificate in case the extent of land exceeds the ceiling limit of
(b)
An affidavit in case the extent of land is less than the ceiling limit or
(c)
ULC Regularisation order from Government issued under G.O.Ms. 455 and 456 Revenue dated 29-7-2002.
V. Indemnity Bond in the format prescribed
VI. NOC from Defence Authority/ Airport Authority of India (wherever applicable)
VII. Any other document as required by the Competent authority.
Application for regulation of unapproved layout and subdivision of plots can also be made by a
society/association/colony developer representing the plot owners in unapproved layout in such cases the said
association/colony developer representing the plot owners in unapproved layout, shall be wholly and severally
responsible for under taking the deficiencies in such unapproved layouts, undertaking to comply with the conditions and
pay the requisite fees and charges as prescribed in these rules to the competent authority. The
society/association/colony developer representing the plot owners in unapproved layout shall select and of the three
members among themselves called "Resource persons" who would be responsible for all dealings on behalf of the
society/association/colony developer representing the plot owners in an unapproved layout.
7.
In cases where an application is received in a site that is contrary to the land use stipulated in the statutory plan, the
competent authority shall have the power of approving the case except those specified in Rule 5 above by levying the
necessary conversion charges.
8.
Payment of Penalisation charges.
- (i) The applicant shall pay the fees and charges as detailed below:
(a)
[ "Basic penalization charges on pro-rata basis, which are inclusive of betterment charges, development charges and
layout scrutiny charges, penalty and other charges, at the following rates:]
Table I
Basic Penalisation Charges
Plot Area in Sq.mts
Basic Pro-rata Penalisation Charges in Rs.per
Sq.mt
Less than 100
200
101 to 300
300
301 to 500
400
Above 500
500
The actual penalization charges will be the percentage of basic penalization charges as mentioned above and shall be
calculated based on the land value prevailing as on 1-1-2002 as given below:
Page 4/8
----- PAGE 5 -----
Andhra Pradesh Regulation of Unapproved and Illegal Layout Rules, 2007
Table-II
Penalisation charges with Reference to Land Value
Market Value of the land as on 1-1-08 (sub-registrar value) in
Rs.per sq.yard
Penalisaton Charges of basic penalization %
charges)
Above 25000
100%  of Basic Penalisation Charges
20001 to 25000
90%
- do-
15001 to 20000
80%
- do-
10001 to 15000
70%
- do-
8001 to 10000
60%
- do-
5001 to 8000
50%
- do-
3001 to 5000
45%
- do-
2001 to 3000
40%
do-
1001 to 2000
35%
- do-
501 to 1000
30%
- do-
Up to 500
25%
- do-
(b)
Pro rata open space charges as prescribed in Rule 9 (b) of the Rules
(c)
Conversion charges as prescribed rule 7 of the Rules.
(ii)
[ The above charges may be remitted in full at the time of submission of application form or 50% of the said amount shall
be paid along with the application form and balance 50% shall be paid within 6 months from the date of submission of
application]
[Rules 8(ii) substituted, by G.O.Ms. No. 113, M.A. & U.D. (M1), Departmenrt, dated 31-01-2008]
.
9.
Scrutiny by the Competent Authority.
- (i) After receipt of an application for regulation of layout in Annexure-1 with necessary documents and plans, the
Page 5/8
----- PAGE 6 -----
Andhra Pradesh Regulation of Unapproved and Illegal Layout Rules, 2007
Competent Authority in respect of areas falling in the limits of Urban Development Authority shall scrutinise application
as per these Rules, carry out necessary inspections and in case the application is found in accordance with these Rules
and after the owner hands over the open spaces if any to the concerned Municipality/ Municipal Corporation/local body,
the Competent Authority communicate it's approval to the applicant as early as possible but not beyond six months from
the last date of receipt of Applications fixed.
(ii)
In case of applications which are found to be not in accordance with these Rules, orders shall be issued rejecting such
applications as early as possible but not beyond six months from the last date of receipt of Applications fixed.
(iii)
In case of Municipalities/Municipal Corporations falling outside UDA area, or in case of Gram Panchayats covered in
Master Plan limits of non-UDA areas, the Competent Authority after scrutiny with respect to Master Plan and as per
these Rules and after carrying out necessary site inspection shall submit remarks to the Director of Town and Country
Planning for technical approval or the official authorized by the Director of Town and Country Planning in this behalf.
After approval or rejection to the applicant as early as possible but not beyond six months from the last date fixed for
receipt of Applications.
(iv)
In case of application for individual plot which is not affected by any Change of Land Use or Master Plan roads, such
cases may be processed and disposed at level of Competent Authority only.
(v)
The Competent Authority may engage the services of licensed technical personnel, namely architects and graduate
engineers, for scrutiny of the applications and for field inspections. Mere receipt of application or any delay in
communication of final orders in the matter will not imply the approval of the application.
10.
Norms to be insisted for regulation of unapproved layouts.
- The Competent authority shall ensure the following minimum norms of layout for such layouts.
(a)
The road width shall be minimum 9 m. In case of weaker section layouts or plots less than 100 sq.m, the road width may
be 6m.
(b)
[ 10% open space contribution charges to be insisted or reserve equivalent land within their site by readjusting the plots.
Where such open space is not provided in such unapproved layout sites, pro-rata open space charges shall be paid as
given below:
[Rule 10(b) substituted by G.O.Ms. No. 301, M.A. & U.D. (M1), Department, dated 11-4-2008.]
In case of plots either with construction or vacant in an unapproved layout, the open space charges shall be collected
based on the land value prevailing as on the date of registration of such plot.]
[Rule 8(i)(a) substituted, by G.O. Ms. No. 113, M.A. & U.D. (M1), Department, dated 31-01-2008]
(c)
Shall ensure overall connectivity and integration with surrounding infrastructure and road pattern.
(d)
Where an unapproved layout site is affected in the Statutory Master Plan road network, the competent authority shall
retain the alignment in the said layout and if not feasible, he is authorized to suitably modify the alignment within the
layout site but in no case the alignment is to be dropped.
(e)
The layout pattern as far as possible shall be retained inpso facto and only in exceptional cases like need for
connectivity, integration with surrounding network, etc. modifications max be considered by the Competent authority.
(f)
Private water bodies if any shall be preserved in the layout. Such water bodies may be considered as part of open
spaces as required under (b) above, subject to taking up protection and improvement of foreshores of such water bodies
11.
Minimum Standards of layout facilities and development to be undertaken.
(a)
Page 6/8
----- PAGE 7 -----
Andhra Pradesh Regulation of Unapproved and Illegal Layout Rules, 2007
All roads to be developed and black-topped
(b)
Drainage works including rain water harvesting facilities
(c)
Water supply and sewerage facilities
(d)
Street Lighting
(e)
Fencing of open spaces
12.
Individual plot regulation.
- Where an individual comes forward for regulation of a single plot, the Competent authority may consider the same
subject to the condition in Rule 2 (iv) and Rule 5 to 8 regarding payment of fees, penalty and charges including the open
space charge and betterment charges payable on pro rata basis.
13.
Failure to come forward for regulation of unapproved layouts / plots.
- Where an application is not filed for regulation of unapproved layout/plot, the following consequences have to be faced
by the plot owners.
(a)
Such unapproved layouts/plots would be treated as continuing offence and exemplary penalty as per law would be
levied.
(b)
No regular water supply connections and services like drainage and sewerage would be extended.
(c)
Such unapproved layouts shall be recorded in the Prohibitory Register of the Registration Department and no
sale/disposal or transactions shall be allowed in such sites.
(d)
No building approvals shall be considered by the building sanctioning authority in such unapproved layouts/plots.
(e)
Other enforcement action including demolition of the building if any on such plot/plots shall be initiated.
14.
Amount levied kept in separate account.
- The amount collected by the Competent Authority under these Rules shall be kept and maintained under the control of
the Competent authority in a separate escrow account and utilized only for improvement of amenities in the area.
The competent authority shall review the development works undertaken by the UDA/local authority relating to such
unapproved layouts on a quarterly basis and shall have the power to issue necessary instructions and directions in this
regard.
15.
Appeal.
(1)
Any applicant aggrieved by an order passed by the Competent Authority under Rule 9, may prefer an appeal to the
Appellate Committee constituted by the Government within thirty days from the date of receipt of the order provided the
applicant has paid the necessary charges and submitted documents as specified in Rule 6 of these rules.
(2)
All the appeals shall be disposed off within six months.
16.
The Government may issue guidelines to operationalise these Rules as deemed fit.
17.
All existing Rules, Regulations, Bye laws and orders that are in conflict or inconsistent with these rules shall stand
modified to the extent of the provisions of these rules.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Page 7/8
----- PAGE 8 -----
Andhra Pradesh Regulation of Unapproved and Illegal Layout Rules, 2007
Translation
Page 8/8