
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh Engineering Common Entrance Test for Diploma and B.Sc. Degree Holders (ECET...
Andhra Pradesh Engineering Common Entrance Test for Diploma and
B.Sc. Degree Holders (ECET/ECET-AC) for Admission into second
year Under Graduate Courses in Engineering/ Pharmacy Rules, 2008
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/21942289/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh Engineering Common Entrance Test for Diploma and B.Sc. Degree Holders (ECET/ECET-AC) for
Admission into second year Under Graduate Courses in Engineering/ Pharmacy Rules, 2008
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh Engineering Common Entrance Test for Diploma and B.Sc. Degree Holders (ECET/ECET-AC) for
Admission into second year Under Graduate Courses in Engineering/ Pharmacy Rules, 2008
Rule
ANDHRA-PRADESH-ENGINEERING-COMMON-ENTRANCE-TEST-FOR-DIPLOMA-AND-B-SC-DEGREE-HOLDERS-
ECET-ECET-AC-FOR-ADMISSION-INTO-SECOND-YEAR-UNDER-GRADUATE-COURSES-IN-ENGINEERING-PHAR
MACY-RULES-2008 of 2008
Published on 12 May 2008
Commenced on 12 May 2008
[This is the version of this document from 12 May 2008.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Andhra Pradesh Engineering Common Entrance Test for Diploma and B.Sc. Degree Holders (ECET/ECET-AC) for
Admission into second year Under Graduate Courses in Engineering/ Pharmacy Rules, 2008
Page 1/12
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh Engineering Common Entrance Test for Diploma and B.Sc. Degree Holders (ECET...
Published vide Notification No. G.O.Ms.No. 57, High Education (E.C.2), dated 12.5.2008
Last Updated 29th August, 2019
G.O.Ms.No. 57. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sections 3 and 15 of the Andhra Pradesh Educational
Institutions (Regulation of Admission and Prohibition of Capitation Fee) Act, 1983 (Andhra Pradesh Act
5 of 1983
) and in super cession of the Andhra Pradesh Engineering Common Entrance Test for Diploma Holders for Admission
into B.E., B.Tech.and B.Pharmacy courses Rules, 2004 issued in G.O.Ms.No. 24, Education (EC) Department, dated
18th March, 2004 and as amended subsequently, the Governor of Andhra Pradesh hereby makes the following Rules
for the conduct of Engineering Common Entrance Test.
(1) For lateral admission through Common Entrance Test into 2nd year regular B.E. and B.Tech Courses in All India
Council for Technical Education approved Un-Aided private Professional institutions (Minority and non-Minority).
(2) For admission through common Entrance Test into 1st year Regular BE and B.Tech Courses in University
Engineering Colleges for the seats specifically earmarked for Diploma and B.Sc Degree Holders.
(3) For lateral admission through Common Entrance Test into 2nd year Regular B.Pharmacy Courses in both University
and private un-Aided professional institutions (Minority and Non-Minority) approved by Pharmacy Council of India.
1.
Shot title, applicability and Commencement.
- (i) these rules may be called the "Andhra Pradesh Engineering Common Entrance Test for Diploma and B.Sc. Degree
Holders (ECET/ECET-AC) for Admission into second year Under Graduate Courses in Engineering/ Pharmacy Rules,
2008.
(ii)
They shall apply to all Engineering/ Pharmacy courses for Admission into regular B.E., B.Tech and B.Pharm Courses in
All India Council for Technical Education/Pharmacy Council of India approved institutions.
(iii)
they shall come into force with immediate effect.
2.
Definitions.
(1)
In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires
(a)
"Act" means the Andhra Pradesh Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admission and Prohibition of Capitation Fee)
Act, 1983 (Andhra Pradesh Act
No. 5 of 1983
).
(b)
"Admission and Fee Regulatory Committee" hereinafter call AFRC means the Committee constituted by the Government
for regulating the Admissions and fixation of fees to be charged from candidates seeking admission into Private Unaided
Minority and Non-Minority Professional Institutions.
(c)
"Association of Colleges" means the Association of Private Un-Aided Professional Colleges formed for the purpose of
conducting Engineering Common Entrance Test referred to in clause (J) and recognized by the Andhra Pradesh State
Council of Higher Education consisting of Management representatives.
(d)
"Chairman" means the Vice-Chancellor of any University in the state nominated by the Competent Authority for each
academic year for conducting and discharging functions, as specified, relating to Engineering Common Entrance Test
for Diploma and Degree Holders for lateral entry into Under Graduate Engineering/Pharmacy Courses.
(e)
"Committee of ECET" means the committee empowered to discharge functions as specified in these rules relating to the
conduct of Common Entrance Test for Admissions into Engineering and Pharmacy courses.
(f)
"Committee of ECET-AC" means the Committee empowered by the Association of private Un-Aided professional
Page 2/12
----- PAGE 3 -----
Andhra Pradesh Engineering Common Entrance Test for Diploma and B.Sc. Degree Holders (ECET...
Colleges to conduct ECET-AC for Admission of Diploma and Degree Holders into 2nd year of Engineering and
Pharmacy Courses and to prepare the merit lists of the candidates as per the marks obtained in the above test for
Admission into Engineering and Pharmacy Courses, subject to the supervision of the AFRC.
(g)
"Competent Authority" means the Chairman of the Andhra Pradesh State Council of High Education.
(h)
"Convener" means the authority/ officer appointed by the Competent Authority in consultation with Chairman for
conducting the Engineering Common Entrance Test for Diploma and Degree Holders and for performing such other
functions relating to the said Test as entrusted to him by the Competent Authority.
(i)
"Engineering Common Entrance Test for Diploma and B.Sc. Degree Holders" (hereinafter called ECET) means the
examination conducted for assigning ranks on merit to the candidates which shall be the basis for Admission into B.E.,
B.Tech.and B.Pharm Courses in All India Council for Technical Education/Pharmacy Council of India approved
institutions for Diploma and Degree Holders.
(j)
"Engineering Common Entrance test for Diploma and B.Sc. Degree Holders Conducted by Association of Colleges"
(hereinafter called as ECET-AC), means examination conducted by Association of Private Un-Aided Colleges for
assigning rank to merit candidates which shall be the basis for admission of candidates to the said colleges in the State
for filling up seats approved for Diploma and Degree Holders by the All India Council for Technical Education/Pharmacy
Council of India in their 2nd year B.E/B.Tech/ B.Pharmacy courses:
(k)
Government "Means the State Government of Andhra Pradesh".
(l)
"Qualified Candidate" means the candidate who has appeared for the ECET /ECET-AC and has been assigned rank in
the common merit list and has the eligibility as per the criteria laid down under Rule 3.
(m)
"Qualifying Examination" means the examination of the minimum qualification prescribed, appearance or passing of
which entitles one to seek entry into the relevant courses as laid down under rule 3.
(n)
"State Council" means the Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education Constituted under Andhra Pradesh State
Council of Higher Education Act, 1988 (Andhra Pradesh Act 16 of 1988).
(o)
"University" means the University concerned in which the particular courses are offered.
(2)
Words and Expressions used but not defined in these rules shall have the same meaning assigned to them under the
Andhra Pradesh Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admissions and Prohibition of Capitation Fee) Act, 1983 (Andhra
Pradesh Act
5 of 1983
).
3.
Eligibility Criteria for appearing the ECET/ECET-AC.
- The Candidates satisfying the following requirements shall be eligible to appear for ECET / ECET-AC.
(i)
They should be of Indian Nationality.
(ii)
They should belong to the State of Andhra Pradesh. The candidates should satisfy local/non-local status requirements
as laid down in the Andhra Pradesh Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admission) Order, 1974 as subsequently
amended.
(iii)
They should have obtained a Diploma in Engineering and Technology/ Pharmacy from the State Board of Technical
Education of Andhra Pradesh State or any other Diploma recognized by the Government of Andhra Pradesh as
Page 3/12
----- PAGE 4 -----
Andhra Pradesh Engineering Common Entrance Test for Diploma and B.Sc. Degree Holders (ECET...
equivalent thereto for Admission into the relevant B.E., B.Tech and B.Pharmacy courses into the Courses corresponding
to the Diplomas as given in the Annexure to this order.
(iv)
They should have passed the 3-year B.Sc. Degree examination with Mathematics as one of the subjects in the group
combination from a recognized University in the state or its equivalent for entry into relevant courses as given in the
annexure to this order.
(v)
candidates who are pursuing a Diploma course under sandwich pattern shall be eligible for entry into the relevant B.E.,
B.Tech and B.Pharmacy courses provided they have completed the practical training for the sandwich course before
close of Counselling for entry into the relevant course.
4.
Engineering Common Entrance test (ECET).
- (i) The ECET shall be conducted by the Convener, and shall be held on such date and centers as may be specified by
the ECET Committee.
(ii)
(a)
The Convener of ECET shall give a notification in the widely circulated daily News Papers, a decided by the Committee
of ECET calling for the applications in the prescribed form from the candidates satisfying eligibility criteria as laid down in
rule 3. The Advertisement, among other things, shall indicate the cost of application fee payable, entrance test fee
payable, the last date for receipt of the filled in applications and the date of conduct of the entrance test.
(b)
The date of the entrance test as notified above shall not be revised with out the prior permission of the Government.
(iii)
The syllabus for the Entrance test shall be as specified by the committee of ECET from time to time.
(iv)
The Medium of ECET shall be English only.
(v)
The qualifying marks in the Entrance Test for general category of candidates shall be 25% of the aggregate marks.
However, there shall be no minimum qualifying marks in respect of candidates belonging to the Scheduled Castes and
Scheduled Tribes.
(vi)
No requests for re-totalling or revaluation or personal identification of the answer scripts of the Entrance Test shall be
entertained.
(vii)
Mere appearance at the Entrance Test does not automatically entitle a candidate to be considered for entry into any
course unless the candidate satisfies the requirement of eligibility as laid down under Rule 3 and other criteria laid down
in the rules for Admission that shall be Issued separately.
(ix)
The Entrance Test fee, to be collected from the students desirous of appearing for Entrance test shall be as prescribed
by the Entrance Test Committee from time to time.
5.
Subjects for Common Entrance Test.
- There shall be separate Test papers for the candidates from the Diploma in Engineering, B.Sc. Degree and Diploma in
Pharmacy streams as given below:
I Engineering Diploma Holders stream
(a)
The subjects in which the Common Entrance Test shall be conducted and the maximum marks allotted to each of them
shall be as detailed below:
(i)
Mathematics -
50 Marks
Page 4/12
----- PAGE 5 -----
Andhra Pradesh Engineering Common Entrance Test for Diploma and B.Sc. Degree Holders (ECET...
(ii)
Physics -
25 Marks
(iii)
Chemistry -
25 Marks
(iv)
Relevant Engineering branch -
100 Marks
(b)
The diploma candidates seeking entry in any particular course shall have to appear in Mathematics, Physics, and
Chemistry and the relevant Engineering papers.
(c)
Tests in Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry subjects shall be common for all the Engineering disciplines.
II B.Sc. Degree Holders Stream. - Form B.Sc. candidates the Common Entrance Test shall be for 200 marks with the
maximum marks allotted as below:
(i)
Mathematics -
100 Marks
(ii)
Analytical ability-
50 Marks
(iii)
Communicative English -
50 Marks
III Pharmacy Diploma Holders Stream. - For Pharmacy the Common Entrance Test shall be for 200 marks based on the
subjects studied in diploma in Pharmacy.
6.
Preparation of the Merit List and Assigning ranks in ECET.
- The Convener shall observe the following rules in preparing the merit list and Assigning the rank separately for
Engineering and Pharmacy.
(i)
The candidates who have secured qualifying marks in the Entrance Test and the candidates belonging to the Scheduled
Caste and Scheduled Tribe communities, to whom no minimum qualifying marks have been prescribed, shall be taken
into consideration.
(ii)
All the candidates shall be assigned ranks in the order of merit on the basis of their aggregate marks secured in the
ECET/ECET-AC. There shall be three separate rank lists for the Engineering Diploma Holder, B.Sc. Degree Holder and
Pharmacy Diploma Holder streams of ECET/ECET-AC. An integrated rank list taking all the branches of
Engineering/Technology into consideration, shall also be prepared.
(iii)
For Diploma students, in case of a tie inter-se in the Aggregate marks, the marks obtained in the Engineering Paper and
in case of a further tie, marks obtained in Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry, in that order, shall be taken into account
to decide relative ranks. In case of Pharmacy students, the marks obtained in the qualifying examination shall be taken
into account to resolve the tie. In the case of B.Sc. Graduates the marks obtained in Mathematics in the Test, and in
case of further tie, aggregate marks obtained in the qualifying examination shall be taken into account to resolve the tie.
(iv)
In the case the tie among some candidates is still not resolved even after following the procedure outlined in clause (iii)
above, they shall be bracketed for the purpose of award of rank and at the time of admission, age shall be taken into
consideration for determining the relative rank among them and the older candidates shall be given preference.
(v)
Page 5/12
----- PAGE 6 -----
Andhra Pradesh Engineering Common Entrance Test for Diploma and B.Sc. Degree Holders (ECET...
The following rank lists shall be prepared by the Convener separately for Engineering and Pharmacy.
(a)
State-wide Common Merit List: The list shall include candidates irrespective of whether one belongs to any category of
reservation quota or not, basing on the marks obtained in the ECET/ECET-AC.
(b)
Integrated Merit List for entry into IT and other relevant Courses.
(c)
Region-wise Common Merit List: The list includes candidates belonging to the particular local area irrespective of
whether one belongs to any category of reservation quoto or not basing on the marks obtained in the ECET/ ECET-AC.
(d)
Minority Community Merit Lists: They include merit lists, containing the candidates belonging to the different Minority
Communities arranged in the Merit ranking assigned in the ECET/ ECET-AC, both State wide and Region-wise.
(e)
Community-wise Merit Lists: There shall be separate Community-wise merit lists for the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled
Tribes and Bank-ward classes Communities, both as State-wise and Region-wise; and (0 Merit list for other categories
of reservations:
There shall be separate lists for other categories of reservations as per the orders in force for Physically Handicapped,
NCC, Games and Sports, Children of ex-servicemen and for women, both State-wide and Region-wise.
(vi)
Every candidate who has been assigned rank in the merit list shall be issued Rank Card by the Convener. The Rank
Card, among other things, include the marks obtained in the EXET/ECET-AC and the rank assigned in the state wide
merit, region-wise merit. Integrated Rank, Community-wise merit etc.,
7.
Constitution of ECET Committee.
- The competent authority shall constitute the ECET committee to deal with the matters connected with the test. The
Composition of the Committee shall consist of the following:-
(i)
Chairman, who shall be the Vice-Chancellor of any University nominated by the competent authority for each academic
year for the purpose of conducting ECET.
(ii)
One representative of each of the University to be nominated by the Competent Authority in consultation with the
Vice-Chancellor Concerned.
(iii)
The Commissioner and Director of Technical Education A.P. on his nominee not below the rank of Joint Director.
(iv)
One representative of Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education nominated by the competent authority.
(v)
A senior Officer of Education Department not below the rank of Deputy Secretary who deals with the subject.
(vi)
Convener of the Entrance Test of the preceding year.
(vii)
Convener, Who should be the rank of a Professor of the University concerned be appointed by the competent authority
in consultation with Chairman of the ECET committee.
(viii)
One Principal, of a private Engineering/pharmacy college to be nominated by the competent authority for each academic
year by turn.
(ix)
Secretary, State Board of Technical Education and Training, Govt., of A.P. Hyderabad.
8.
Functions of the ECET Committee.
- The ECET Committee shall take decisions on the following issues relating to the ECET:-
Page 6/12
----- PAGE 7 -----
Andhra Pradesh Engineering Common Entrance Test for Diploma and B.Sc. Degree Holders (ECET...
(i)
pattern of Question papers.
(ii)
Duration of the test.
(iii)
Weight age and marks to be assigned to each paper.
(iv)
Syllabus content.
(v)
Centres for conducting the test.
(vi)
Dates of the Test.
(vii)
Cost of the application and Registration Fee to be collected from the candidates of ECET.
(viii)
Norms for the payment of remuneration for different items/ services undertaken in connection with ECET work.
(ix)
Date of announcement of results.
(x)
Such other Issues as may be referred by the chairman of the committee and competent authority.
9.
Functions of the Chairman of the ECET Committee.
- Chairman of the Committee
(i)
Shall preside over all the meetings of the committee in his absence he may nominate one of the members of the
committee to preside over the meetings.
(ii)
Shall appoint Paper setters, moderators for the EXET and decide upon the printing press or presses where the
confidential material of the Test shall be printed.
(iii)
may appoint a competent officer to assist the Convener.
10.
Functions of the Convener of the ECET Committee.
- The convener of the ECET shall, subject to such directions as may be issued by the Chairman, discharge his duties in
the matters relating to the ECET, The Convener, is specifically responsible for discharging the following functions:
(i)
The printing of application form of ECET.
(ii)
Issuing the notification inviting application for the Entrance Test.
(iii)
Sale of application forms and issue of Hall - Tickets.
(iv)
Appointment of Co-ordinators, Chief Superintendents and Observers of various Test Centers.
(v)
Coding and decoding of Response sheets (Answer Scripts).
(vi)
Appointment of Members of confidential team for assisting Computer process in valuation of answer scripts.
(vii)
Payment of remuneration for various items/services utilized for the purpose of ECET.
(viii)
Maintenance and submission of audited accounts to the Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education.
Page 7/12
----- PAGE 8 -----
Andhra Pradesh Engineering Common Entrance Test for Diploma and B.Sc. Degree Holders (ECET...
(ix)
Publication of results and dispatch of Rank Cards to the qualified candidates.
(x)
Such other duties as entrusted by the Chairman.
11.
Funds for the conduct of the ECET.
- (i) The amounts that are collected from the candidates towards cost of the application and the examination fee shall be
directly credited into the account of the Secretary, Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education, Hyderabad.
(ii)
The Convener shall advances from the Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education necessary expenditure for
items/services connected with the ECET and submit for audit to the Local fund Audit and report thereof be submitted to
the Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education.
12.
Engineering Common Entrance Test for Diploma Holders - Conducted by Association of Colleges - ECET-AC.
(a)
Association of Colleges Formation and its Functions:
(i)
The re-shall an Association of Private Un-Aided Professional colleges recognized by Andhra Pradesh State Council of
Higher Education as defined in clause (e) of sub-rule (1) of rule 2 of these Rules to conduct ECET-AC.
(ii)
The Secretary(s) of Association(s) Colleges formed as in clause (i) above shall intimate their formation, rules and
bye-laws and the names of the officer bearers and member colleges to the Competent Authority and AFRC before a
date stipulated by the Competent Authority. The State Council shall accord recognition to the Association(s), who submit
the above particulars and documents before the stipulated date".
(iii)
Irrespective of the number of Association recognized under clause (ii) above, they can conduct only one ECET-AC for
Engineering courses and another for Pharmacy courses the AFRC shall issue notification, inviting options from the
Managements of all the Professional Colleges for admitting their students either through ECET of ECET-AC.
(iv)
The option of choosing, between ECET or ECET-AC shall be exercised by the Managements of the Private Un-aided
Professional colleges and shall be intimated in writing before a stipulated date to the Competent Authority and the
AFRC. In case of failure on the part of any management to exercise its option it shall be construed that it shall admit the
candidates into its college on the basis of the rank at ECET conducted by the Convener, in which case the Convener for
admission will approve the above admissions.
13.
Constitution of Committee of ECET-AC.
- The Committee of ECET-AC shall be constituted by the Association of Un-Aided Private Professional Colleges with
eminent members and academicians representing all the disciplines included for the test. A member of this committee
shall be appointed as Convener of the Committee of ECET-AC to discharge functions as assigned by the Committee of
ECET-AC.
14.
Functions of Committee of ECET-AC.
- (i) ECET-AC shall be conducted in a fair and transparent manner subject to supervision of the AFRC and it shall submit
the proposed question papers, the names of the paper setter and examiners and the method adopted to ensure papers
are not leaked, whenever such information is called for by the Permanent Committee.
(ii)
The Committee of ECET-AC shall Preserve the question paper and the answer papers for the period as indicated by the
AFRC.
(iii)
The records of an Institution which has been established and which has been permitted to adopt its own admission
procedure for the last, at least, 25 years shall be examined by the AFRC and may permit such an Institute to adopt its
Page 8/12
----- PAGE 9 -----
Andhra Pradesh Engineering Common Entrance Test for Diploma and B.Sc. Degree Holders (ECET...
own admission procedure.
(iv)
After Holding ECET-AC and declaration of Results of ECET-AC, each member college of Association of Colleges shall
immediately display the merit lists on the notice Board of all College which have chosen to admit Students on the basis
of rank obtained at ECET-AC.
(v)
Committee of ECET-AC shall also communicate a copy of the merit list forthwith to the competent authority and the
AFRC.
(vi)
Committee of ECET-AC shall follow the same guidelines as prescribed in Rules 4, 5 and 6 for conduct of test, minimum
qualifying mark etc., for declaration of results and assigning merit ranks.
(vii)
Preparation of the Merit List and assigning rank:
The committee of ECET-AC shall follow the guidelines prescribed in Rule 6 In preparing the merit list and assigning the
rank, tie break in case of more than one candidate scoring the same marks at ECET-AC, preparation of Rank lists and
issuing of Rank Cards.
15.
Funds for the conduct of ECET-AC.
- The amounts that are collected from the candidates towards cost of application and examination fee shall be utilized to
meet the expenditure for items/services connected with the ECET-AC. Accounts shall be subjected to audit and report
thereof shall be submitted to the competent authority and AFRC.
16.
Special Direction from the Government.
- In the event of any malpractice or leakage of question paper or in any other circumstances leading to the stopping of
ECET as scheduled, the Government may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, direct to conduct of a re-examination of
the ECET. In such an event the Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education or any other body so nominated by
the Government shall cause the ECET re-examination to be conducted by appointing/nominating such functionaries or
Committees as considered necessary, without levying any extra charge from the candidates for this purpose.
Annexure
(See Sub-Rules (iii) and (iv) of Rule 3)
Sl.No
Name of the Degree course offered in
Engineering Colleges
Corresponding Diploma course eligible for
admission
Engineering subject in which the candidate
has to appear for ECET/ECET-AC examination to be considered for
admission into relevant degree programme(s) as in column (2)
1
2
3
4
1.
Civil Engineering(CE)
1. Diploma in Civil Engineering
Civil Engg.
2.
Civil Environment Egg.
2. Diploma in Construction Tech.
3.
Mechanical Engineering (ME)
Page 9/12
----- PAGE 10 -----
Andhra Pradesh Engineering Common Entrance Test for Diploma and B.Sc. Degree Holders (ECET...
1. Diploma in Mechanical Engg.
4.
Production Engineering (PE)
2. Diploma in Mechanical (SW)-
5.
Industrial Production Engg
3. Diploma in Packaging Tech.
6.
(IPE)
4. Diploma in Printing. Tech
7.
Mechanical, Production and Industrial Engg
(MPIE) Mechanical and Marine Engg.
5. Diploma in Jewellery Design and
Manufacturing
8.
(MMC)
6. Diploma In Foot Wear Technology
Mechanical Engineering
9.
Aircraft Maintenance Engg. Mechanical
Engineering (Mechatronics)
10.
Automobile Engineering
7. Diploma in Automobile Engg.
11.
12. Instrumentation Engg. (IE)
1. Diploma in Applied Electronics and
Instrumentation.
13.
Instrumentation Engg. (EIE)
2. Special Diploma in Industrial Electronics
and Instrumentation Engg.
Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering
14.
Applied Electronics and Instrumentation Engg.
Instrumentation and Control Engg.
3. Diploma in Electronics and Instrumentation
Engg.
15.
Electrical and Electronics Engg. (EEE)
1. Diploma in Electrical Electrical and
Electronic
Electronics Engineering Engg.
16.
Electronics and Communication Engg.
1. Diploma in Electronics and Communication
Engg
17.
(ECE) Electronics & Control
18.
Page 10/12
----- PAGE 11 -----
Andhra Pradesh Engineering Common Entrance Test for Diploma and B.Sc. Degree Holders (ECET...
Systems Engg. Electronics and Telematics
2. Diploma in Electronics and Instrumentation
Engg.
3. Diploma in Applied Electronics and
Instrumentation
4. Special Diploma in Electronics in
Communication Engg.
5. Special Diploma in Electronics Industrial
Electronics and Instrumentation Engg
Electronics in Communication Engineering
6. Special Diploma in T.V. and Sound Technology
7 Special Diploma in Bio-Medical Engineering
8. Diploma in Bio-Medical Engg.
19.
Computer Science and Engg. (CSE)
1. Diploma in Computer Engineering
20.
Computer Science and Systems Engg.
2. Diploma in Information Tech.,
21.
Information Technology
3. Special Diploma in Electronics with
specialization in Computer Engineering
Computer Science and Engineering
22.
Electronics and Computer Engg.
4. Diploma in Electronics and Computer
Engineering
23.
Geo Informatics
-
24.
Ceramic Technology
Diploma in Ceramic Technology
Technology Ceramic
25.
Chemical Engineering
1. Diploma in Chemical Engg (SW)
2. Diploma in Chemical Engg (SW) (Plastics and
Polymers)
3. Diploma in Chemical Engg (SW) (Petro
Chemicals)
4. Diploma in Chemical Engg (SW) (Oil
Technology)
5. Diploma in Sugar Tech. (SW)
6. Diploma in Textile
Chemical Engineering Technology
7. Diploma in Leather Tech (SW)
8. Diploma in Ceramic Tech (SW)
26.
Metallurgy (MET)
Page 11/12
----- PAGE 12 -----
Andhra Pradesh Engineering Common Entrance Test for Diploma and B.Sc. Degree Holders (ECET...
Diploma in Metallurgy
Metallurgy
27.
Metallurgy and Material Science (Met and MS)
28.
Mining Engineering (MIN)
Diploma in Mining Engineering
Mining
29.
Textile Technology (TT)
1. Diploma in Textile Tech. (SW)
2. Diploma in Textile Tech (Design and
Manufacturing)
Chemical Engineering
3. Diploma in Textile Tech. (Knitting)
30.
Bio-Medical
1. Diploma in Bio-Medical Engg
Electronics and Communication Engg.
2. Special Diploma in Bio-Medical Engg.
31.
Pharmacy
Diploma in Pharmacy
Pharmacy
32.
Bio-Technology
1. Diploma in Bio-Technology
2. Diploma in Pharmacy
Bio-Technology
3. Diploma in Chemical Engg.,
33.         B.Sc. Degree holders shall be eligible for admission to all
the Engineering Degree courses
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 12/12