
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh Private Medical Un-aided Minority Professional Institutions (Admission into...
Andhra Pradesh Private Medical Un-aided Minority Professional
Institutions (Admission into Super Speciality Medical/Dental Courses)
Rules, 2008
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/170238229/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh Private Medical Un-aided Minority Professional Institutions (Admission into Super Speciality
Medical/Dental Courses) Rules, 2008
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh Private Medical Un-aided Minority Professional Institutions (Admission into Super Speciality
Medical/Dental Courses) Rules, 2008
Rule
ANDHRA-PRADESH-PRIVATE-MEDICAL-UN-AIDED-MINORITY-PROFESSIONAL-INSTITUTIONS-ADMISSION-INTO
-SUPER-SPECIALITY-MEDICAL-DENTAL-COURSES-RULES-2008 of 2008
Published on 19 July 2008
Commenced on 19 July 2008
[This is the version of this document from 19 July 2008.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Andhra Pradesh Private Medical Un-aided Minority Professional Institutions (Admission into Super Speciality
Medical/Dental Courses) Rules, 2008
Published vide Notification No. G.O.Ms.No. 277, Health, Medical and Family Welfare (E2), dated 19.7.2008
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh Private Medical Un-aided Minority Professional Institutions (Admission into...
Last Updated 29th August, 2019
G.O.Ms.No. 277. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 read with sub-section (1) of Section 15 of the
Andhra Pradesh Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admissions and Prohibition of Capitation Fee) Act, 1983 (Andhra
Pradesh Act
No. 5 of 1983
), the Governor of Andhra Pradesh hereby makes the following rules for admission into the Super Speciality Courses in
Andhra Pradesh Private Medical Un-aided Minority Professional Institutions (Admission into Super Speciality
Medical/Dental Courses) Rules, 2008.
1.
Short title, applicability and commencement.
- (i) These rules shall be called the Andhra Fradesh Un-aided Minority Professional Institutions (Regulation of
Admissions into Super Speciality Medical/Dental Courses) Rules, 2008.
(ii)
They shall apply to all Un-aided Minority Professional Institutions imparting Super Speciality Professional Education in
Medical and Dental Courses for which admissions shall be made to the "Management seats" in such manner as
prescribed herein.
(iii)
These Rules shall come into force from the academic year 2008-2009.
2.
Definitions.
(1)
In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires;
(i)
"Act" means the Andhra Pradesh Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admission and Prohibition of Capitation fee)
Act, 1983 (A.P. Act
No. 5 of 1983
).
(ii)
"Competent Authority" means the Vice Chancellor, NTR University of Health Sciences, Andhra Pradesh, Vijayawada.
(iii)
"Inspecting Authority" means the Authority appointed by the Competent Authority for inspecting and Scrutinizing the
Admissions of the candidates made in the Unaided Minority Professional Institutions.
(iv)
"Institutions" means, unless otherwise specifically mentioned, all the Un-aided Minority Professional Institutions
imparting Professional Education in Medical and Dental Courses.
(v)
"Local Area" means the territorial jurisdiction prescribed for identifying the local candidate.
(vi)
"Local Candidate" means the Candidate in relation to the local area as specified in Presidential Order.
(vii)
"Qualifying Examination" means the examination of the minimum qualification prescribed which entitles one to seek
admission into the relevant Professional Super Speciality Courses.
(2)
Words and expressions used but not defined in these rules shall have the same meaning as assigned to them in the
Andhra Pradesh Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admission and Prohibition of Capitation Fee) Act, 1983 (Act
No. 5 of 1983
).
3.
Allotment of seats.
- All the seats shall be filled up by the Management i.e. Private un-aided Minority Professional Institutions with the
eligible candidates by giving preference to Minorities subject to the condition that the institutions shall admit Minority
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Andhra Pradesh Private Medical Un-aided Minority Professional Institutions (Admission into...
candidates only in case where the number of seats permitted is only one.
4.
Unfilled seats.
- The unfilled seats, if any shall be filled by the Competent Authority i.e., Dr. NTR University of Health Sciences,
Vijayawada as per merit.
5.
Admission Process.
- The Management shall devise a system that is fair, transparent and non exploitative while admitting students.
6.
Fee Structure.
- Orders will be issued separately, based on the recommendations of the committee constituted for the purpose.
7.
Capitation Fees.
- The Management shall not charge any capitation fee or resort to collect any other amount in any form, other than the
fee fixed under Rule 6.
8.
Submission of Bond by Super Speciality students.
- The Super Speciality Students admitted shall give a bond to the Management for payment of total course fee of
two/three years, if he/she discontinue the course midstream.
9.
Cut off date for admissions.
- The Competent Authority', the Committee of Private Un-aided Minority management of the concerned Private Colleges
shall close the admission process on such date as notified by the Competent Authority i.e. Dr. NTR University of Health
Sciences, Vijayawada. Subsequent to this date no admissions in the Private Un-aided Professional Institutions shall be
made.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3