
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh Oil Palm (Regulation of Production and Processing) Rules, 2008
Andhra Pradesh Oil Palm (Regulation of Production and Processing)
Rules, 2008
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/186729401/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh Oil Palm (Regulation of Production and Processing) Rules, 2008
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh Oil Palm (Regulation of Production and Processing) Rules, 2008
Rule ANDHRA-PRADESH-OIL-PALM-REGULATION-OF-PRODUCTION-AND-PROCESSING-RULES-2008 of 2008
Published on 24 November 2008
Commenced on 24 November 2008
[This is the version of this document from 24 November 2008.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Andhra Pradesh Oil Palm (Regulation of Production and Processing) Rules, 2008
Published vide Notification No. G.O.Ms.No. 460, Agriculture and Cooperation (Horti.), dated 24.11.2008
Last Updated 29th August, 2019
G.O.Ms.No. 460. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) and (2) of Section 25 of the Andhra Pradesh
Oil Palm (Regulation of Production and Processing) Act, 1993 (Andhra Pradesh Act No. 3 of 1993), the Government of
Andhra Pradesh hereby makes the following rules, namely:-
Chapter I
Preliminary
1.
Page 1/12
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh Oil Palm (Regulation of Production and Processing) Rules, 2008
These rules may be called the Andhra Pradesh Oil Palm (Regulation of Production and Processing) Rules, 2008.
2.
In these rules unless the context otherwise requires -
(a)
'Act' means the Andhra Pradesh Oil Palm (Regulation of Production and Processing) Act, 1993.
(b)
'Agriculture year' means the period commencing on the first day of July of any year and ending with the 30th day of June
of the succeeding year.
(c)
'Appendix' means any additional information appended to these rules;
(d)
'Budget year' means the year commencing on the first day of April of any year and ending with the 31st March of the
succeeding year;
(e)
'Form' means the form appended to these rules;
(f)
'Collection center' means any place or places that may be declared by the Oil Palm Commissioner, by notification in the
Andhra Pradesh Gazette specifying the Jurisdiction of the center as a collection center for the purchase, delivery,
..........or payment for Oil Palm Fresh Fruit Bunches and includes such portion of the premises of the factory, as is used
for any of these purposes and declared as such; 'Collection center' to be located by the factory shall be notified by the
Oil Palm Commissioner.
(g)
'section' means a section of the Act;
(h)
'weigh bridge' means any mechanism of scales including beam-scales and tripod balances used to weigh Oil Palm
Fresh Fruit Bunches, approved by the Department of Weights and Measures.
(i)
'Auditor' means a person who is a member of the Institution of Charted Accountants of India.
(j)
"words and expressions' used but not defined in these rules shall have the meaning assigned to them in the respective
Acts.
Chapter-II The Andhra Pradesh Oil Palm Advisory Committee
3.
The meetings of the Andhra Pradesh Oil Palm Advisory Committee shall generally be held at Hyderabad and the
Chairman may determine such other place as he may think fit to conduct such meetings of the committee.
4.
The notice for the meeting of the Oil Palm Advisory committee shall be sent be the Member Secretary of the Committee
to all the members at least FIFTEEN days in advance before the date fixed for the meeting.
5.
When any vacancy arises among nominated members of the Committee be reason of resignation, death or for any other
reason, the Government shall nominate another person who is an oil palm grower or an expert is oil palm farming,
processing or research and studies to fill in the vacancy and the person so nominated shall hold office for the residuary
term of the member in whose place the person is so nominated or till the reconstitution of the Committee, whichever is
earlier.
Chapter III
Oil Palm Zonal Committee
6.
The annual budget of the Oil Palm Zonal Committee hereinafter referred to as Zonal Committee shall be drawn by every
Zonal Committee and submit to the Oil Palm Commissioner for sanction at least one month before the commencement
of the budget year. The Oil Palm Commissioner may sanction the budget with such modification as he may consider
necessary.
Page 2/12
----- PAGE 3 -----
Andhra Pradesh Oil Palm (Regulation of Production and Processing) Rules, 2008
7.
The Zonal Committee shall not incur any expenditure unless the same is provided for in the budget and sanctioned.
Provided that with the previous approval of the Oil Palm Commissioner given in writing, expenditure under sanctioned
item may exceed the provision for that particular item.
8.
The Oil Palm Commissioner may order the appointment of auditors, where necessary, for auditing the accounts of the
Zonal Committee. The expenditure on such audit shall be met from the funds of the Zonal Committee.
9.
The funds of the Zonal Committee shall be kept in a scheduled bank and shall be operated on by the Secretary. The
Secretary shall maintain proper accounts, registers and vouchers of all income and expenditure. A duly appointed
auditor shall audit shall audit the accounts annually and the Zonal Committee shall rectify all the audit objections to the
satisfaction of the Oil Palm Commissioner.
10.
The Secretary may, in consultation with the Chairman and the occupier of the factory in the concerned zone convene
meeting of the Zonal Committee at such intervals as are required but the gap between two successive meetings of the
Zonal Committee shall not ordinarily be more than four months. The procedure specified in Appendix-I shall be followed
at the meetings of the Committee.
Chapter-IV Register of Oil Palm Growers and Oil Palm Growers Co-Operative Societies
11.
(1)
Every occupier of a factory shall maintain a Register of Oil Palm Growers and oil palm Growers Cooperative Societies in
Form-I in Appendix-II to these rules.
(2)
The Register shall be prepared by the occupier of the factory every year and shall be made available for inspection by
any grower or by an officer authorized by the Oil Palm Commissioner during the office hours in the office of the factory.
(3)
Register shall be updated every year not later than one month before the commencement of the Agriculture year along
with farmer-wise Fresh Fruit Bunches details.
12.
(1)
Any Oil Palm grower having or claiming to have frown oil palm in a factory zone may apply to the occupier of the factory
for the correction of any entry in the Growers Register.
(2)
The occupier of a factory shall keep a record of such applications and shall after here verification................pass such
orders for inclusion of the entries in the register within one month from the date of the application.
13.
(1)
The Oil Palm Commissioner, on a report made by the Oil palm Inspector either suo moto or upon an application made
by any grower or a Growers' Society may pass such orders and issue such directions for inclusion, exclusion or
correction of any of the entries in the Growers' Registers as he deems fit after providing a reasonable opportunity to the
occupier of the factory.
(2)
The orders of the Oil Paim Commissioner as issued in the matter shall be binding on the occupier of the factory and the
occupier of the factory shall make such entries as are ordered by the Oil Palm Commissioner within one week from the
date of receipt of the order.
(3)
(i)
The Oil Palm Commissioner will submit proposals for allotment of continuous mandals where climatic and soil conditions
are suitable for growing oil palm as per Government of India norms and guidelines;
(ii)
The Oil Palm Commissioner will be permitted by the Government of Andhra Pradesh to call for applications for allotment
Page 3/12
----- PAGE 4 -----
Andhra Pradesh Oil Palm (Regulation of Production and Processing) Rules, 2008
of mandals by advertisement in the popular Newspapers;
(iii)
The applications so received within the time prescribed will be evaluated and the evaluated applications after scrutiny by
the screening committee are recommended for allotment.
(iv)
The recommendations of the screening committee are submitted to Government for approval.
(v)
After taking a decision, Government of Andhra Pradesh will give a letter of intent to the approved processors with a
direction to enter into the Memorandum of understanding with Government of Andhra Pradesh with the following
conditions:-
(a)
Establishment of Extension network by recruitment of technical manpower with not less than the minimum qualifications
specified by the Oil Palm Commissioner;
(b)
starting of Nursery with specified seedlings;
(c)
coverage of area under Oil palm;
(d)
establishment of the factory and
(e)
fixing a time frame for all the above items;
(f)
The occupier shall maintain such staff for extension work, and effective monitoring as decided by Oil Palm
Commissioner from time to time.
(g)
There shall be technically qualified staff separately for maintaining the nursery.
(h)
The occupier shall maintain the fertilizer stocks along with vermicompost as per the requirement well in advance in
important nodal places in the zone to supply to the farmers.
Chapter-V Declaration of Factory Zone
14.
The declaration of a factory zone in relation to a factory under Section 11 of the Act shall be subject to the following
conditions namely:-
(i)
The factory zone declared in favour of a processing unit may be notified for failure to comply with the provisions of the
Act after providing a reasonable opportunity to such processor;
(ii)
The occupier of the factory shall furnish to the Oil Palm Commissioner, the schedule of implementation of the project for
creation of processing facilities indicating the time frame. The Oil Palm Commissioner may suggest any changes in the
schedule of implementation, which will be binding on the occupier of a factory. The occupier of factory shall enter into a
Memorandum of understanding if called for by the Oil Palm Commissioner at any time;
(iii)
The occupier of the factory for whom a particular area is declared as a factory zone under Section 11 of the Act shall
adhere to the schedule of implementation for setting up the processing factory and such other facilities as may be
required by the Oil Palm Commissioner;
(iv)
The occupier of the factory shall endeavor to get adequate area in the factory zone under the Oil Palm cultivation and
shall also expand processing capacity to the required extent for purchasing of the Oil Palm fresh fruit bunches from all
the growers in the factory zone;
(v)
The occupier of the factory shall from time to time be liable to inform the Government and Oil Palm Commissioner about
Page 4/12
----- PAGE 5 -----
Andhra Pradesh Oil Palm (Regulation of Production and Processing) Rules, 2008
the process in establishment of factory.
(vi)
The occupier of the factory on the application of any person interested to cultivate Oil palm in the factory Zone shall
arrange for the supply of Oil Palm seedings from his own nursery or other nurseries, if it is from other nurseries, the
additional transport shall be borne by the oil palm company and render extension work and provide for post harvest
facilities including processing. In the event of the failure of the occupier of factory, lending the above service, the
Government may, on the recommendation of the Oil Palm Commissioner levy (a) a penalty equivalent to the cost of
each plant as decided from time to time on the occupier.
(vii)
The Government may alter the area of the factory zone by addition or deletion of any area in respect of a specified
factory in the interest of the farmers or to meet certain unforeseen contingencies and the factory shall abide by such
addition, deletion or alterations of the factory zone as if the factory zone was originally added deleted or altered and all
the provisions of the Act, rules and orders made there under shall apply, provided the reasons there for shall be clearly
mentioned.
(viii)
The Occupier of the factory shall compensate the farmers if he fails to purchase the fresh fruit bunches and the amount
of compensation shall be decided by the Oil Palm Commissioner and occupier of factory shall be given an opportunity of
being heard before passing such orders;
(ix)
The Oil Palm Commissioner may for good and sufficient reasons attach any area falling in any factory zone to any other
factory for a specified period for specified reasons to be recorded in writing to meet any contingencies; Provided that the
Oil Palm Commissioner shall not pass such order without giving an opportunity of making a representation to the
factories likely to be affected by such
Chapter VI
Weighment
15.
No Oil Palm fresh fruit bunches shall be purchased without actual weighment. The net weight of the Oil Palm fresh fruit
bunches shall be correctly recorded by an Electronic Weighing machine with a print out by handing over to the farmer
then and there;
Provided that the certificate from Inspector of Weights and Measures shall prominently displayed at the premises of
weighment, Carts, trucks, carriages etc. carrying oil palm Fresh Fruit Bunches shall be taken care of during the day of
collection on FIFOBASIS and shall not be kept waiting for more than 6 hours from the time of arrival at the factory.
16.
The occupier of the factory shall permit a representative of the Oil Palm Grower, his representative or a representative of
the Oil Palm Growers Cooperative Society or any other person authorized by the Oil Palm Commissioner, to watch or
check weighments, weighbridges and weights and examine the Oil Palm weighment receipts.
17.
At every collection center, adequate facilities for weighment shall be provided by the occupier of the factory to avoid
congestion and undue delay of weighment Cars, trucks, or carriages carrying Oil Palm fresh fruit bunches shall not be
kept waiting for more than four hours from the time of arrival at such collection centers.
18.
The occupier of the Factory may give such time-table for the Oil Palm growers in the factory zone specifying the dates
on which the growers shall deliver the Oil Palm fresh fruit bunches and the growers shall adhere to the schedule so
given. The occupier of a factory shall give adequate advance intimation to the growers. Any change in such time table
for delivery of Oil Palm fresh fruit bunches shall be given by the occupier of factory with reasonable advance intimation
so as not to cause loss to growers and the grower shall adhere to such change.
Chapter VII
Registers and Records
19.
(1)
An occupier of the factory shall maintain, at each collection center, a receipt in duplicate for the Oil Palm fresh fruit
Page 5/12
----- PAGE 6 -----
Andhra Pradesh Oil Palm (Regulation of Production and Processing) Rules, 2008
bunches purchased;
The receipt issued at the collection center can contain only
(a)
the serial number of the receipt;
(b)
the date of purchase;
(c)
the name and address of the person from whom the Oil Palm Fresh fruit bunches are purchased together with similar
particulars about the person, if any, authorized by the vendor to deliver Oil Palm on his behalf;
(d)
the number of requisition slips issued to the vendor;
(e)
the gross weight of the Oil Palm Fresh Fruit Bunches including the weight of the vehicles in which Oil Palm Fresh Fruit
Bunches are bought;
(f)
the weight of the vehicle in which the Oil Palm Fresh Fruit Bunches are brought;
(g)
the weight of the binding material to be deducted;
(h)
the net weight of the Oil Palm fresh fruit bunches purchased, and
(i)
the rate at which the Oil Palm fresh fruit bunches are purchased;
(2)
The entries under clauses (e) and (f) of sub-rule (1) above, shall be made and announced in the presence of the
persons, who actually deliver the Oil Palm fresh fruit bunches while the vehicle is still standing on the weighing machine
Computer linked electronic entries under clauses (a) to (d) shall be made as soon as the weighment takes place and
entries under clauses (g) to (i) shall be made as soon as the empty vehicle is weighed.
20.
The receipt in original referred to in Rule 19 shall be handed over to the person from whom the Oil Palm fresh fruit
bunches are purchased or to his authorized agent.
21.
When the payment is made for the Oil Palm fresh fruit bunches the signature of the payee shall be taken on the triplicate
or duplicate copy of the receipt as the case may be in accordance with the above provisions and this may be applicable
only for the payments made in cash.
22.
The occupier of the factory shall maintain a computerized data bank for the parameters; indicated therein and cause to
be maintained at the office of the company a register or record showing correctly the particulars mentioned in clauses
(a) to (i) of sub-rule (1) of rule 19 and in addition the following particulars namely
(i)
the approved price that has to be paid for the Oil Palm fresh fruit bunches;
(ii)
the amount of authorized deduction, if any;
(iii)
the amount actually paid in cheque, and;
(iv)
the date of payment;
23.
(1)
The occupier of a factory shall maintain or cause to be maintained except in respect of the Oil Palm Fresh Fruit Bunches
purchased through an Oil Palm Growers' Society, separately for each grower an account containing the following
particulars, namely: -
Page 6/12
----- PAGE 7 -----
Andhra Pradesh Oil Palm (Regulation of Production and Processing) Rules, 2008
(i)
name of the supplier, father's/ husband's name, and address;
(ii)
date of purchase;
(iii)
the rate per Metric Ton paid for Oil Palm fresh fruit bunches;
(iv)
SI.No. of the relevant receipt;
(v)
net weight of Oil Palm fresh fruit bunches purchased.
(vi)
progressive total weight of Oil Palm fresh fruit bunches purchased.
(vii)
the amount due for Oil Palm fresh fruit bunches purchased.
(viii)
Progressive total amount due for Oil Palm Fresh fruit bunches purchased.
(ix)
amount paid Oil Palm fresh fruit bunches purchased; and
(x)
progressive total amount paid for Oil Palm fresh fruit bunches purchased.
(2)
When the Oil Palm fresh fruit bunches are supplied through a Growers Co-operative, Society, the Society shall maintain
the above referred accounts in respect of each of its members. Such society shall also show deductions if any made
from the price of Oil Palm fresh fruit bunches payable to a member.
24.
(1)
An occupier of a factory shall cause to be issued to each of the Oil Palm growers a passbook which has to be
maintained in Form 3. The passbook shall show for each month date wise, the net weight of Oil Palm fresh fruit
bunches, fresh fruit bunches delivered to the factory, the price to be paid. The entries in the passbook should be
authenticated by the authorized officer or the occupier of the factory, in charge of the collection centre. Similarly, for the
payments made to the grower, entries of payment, authorized deductions made and the amount yet to be paid shall also
be indicated under authentication.
The grower shall present this passbook every time when the Oil Palm Fresh fruit bunches are delivered for making the
entry and also every time a payments is received so that the entry for the payment and authorized deductions shall be
made and the passbook is kept updated.
The occupier of a factory shall provide the passbooks. However, maintenance of details rests with the farmers based on
the information available in the receipt issued at the collection center.
(2)
The pass book shall be produced by the grower at the time of receiving the payments for the Oil Palm fresh fruit
bunches delivered.
(3)
No payment for the Oil Palm fresh fruit bunches shall be made unless the grower produces the passbook for entering
the amount paid therein.
(4)
In the event of an Oil Palm grower losing the passbook, the matter shall immediately be brought to the notice of the
occupier of the factory who shall arrange to issue a duplicate passbook charging a nominal fee or Rs. 10/-.
25.
An occupier of a factory shall maintain or cause to be maintained at each collection center an inspection book in which
inspectors or other persons authorized by the Oil Palm Commissioner may record their remarks and instructions.
26.
The registers, receipts referred to in this chapter shall be preserved by the occupier of the factory or the Oil Palm
Page 7/12
----- PAGE 8 -----
Andhra Pradesh Oil Palm (Regulation of Production and Processing) Rules, 2008
Growers Co-op. Society concerned for at least 5 agricultural years from the date of the last transaction entered therein.
27.
An occupier of a factory shall maintain or cause to be maintained for each collection enter in Form 4 showing the
quantity of Oil Palm fresh fruit bunches purchased, the value amount paid to the growers, amount outstanding for
payment to growers and a consolidated report covering all collection centers in the factory zone shall be sent by the
occupier of a factory to the Oil Palm Commissioner or any authority specified by the Oil Palm Commissioner in respect
of each month by 5th day of the next month.
Details of total fresh Fruit Bunches purchased in the entire factory zone can be prepared on monthly basis. The format
suggested contains the details like (a) quantity of Fresh Fruit Bunches purchased till last month (b) quantity of Fresh
Fruit Bunches purchased during this month (c) cumulative quantity for the year.
Chapter VIII
Institution of Proceedings
Power To Exempt From Rules
28.
No prosecution shall be instituted under these rules, unless the person complained against has been given an
opportunity in writing to show-cause as to why he should not be prosecuted, prescribing time therein a minimum period
of 15 days.
29.
The Government may, for reasons to be recorded in writing by order, exempt any person from all or any of the
provisions of these rules.
Chapter IX
Determination of Occupier of Factory
30.
The notice of nomination of a person as occupier of a factory for the purposes of this Act under Section 19 read with
subsection (5) of Section 2 shall be given to the Oil Palm Commissioner in Form 2 in Appendix II, who after examining
the content, shall pass a speaking order in writing.
Chapter X
Payments
31.
The payment of the price of Oil Palm Fresh Fruit Bunches shall be made at the collection center on the basis of the
recorded weight of Oil Palm fresh fruit bunches. The price shall be calculated to the nearest rupee. The price approved
by the Government shall be displayed in Telugu, Urdu and English languages in all the collection centers prominently.
32.
Payment for Oil Palm fresh fruit bunches shall be made to the grower or his representative duly authorized by him in
writing to receive the payment either at the collection center or at the office of the factory by only transfer of credit of the
amount to the bank account of the grower or the Oil Palm Growers Co-operative Society as the case may be.
33.
If any occupier of a factory fails to pay the approved price of the Oil Palm fresh fruit bunches in accordance with the
provisions of sub-section (2) of Section 20 within a total period of two months from the date of such delivery together
with the price of oil palm fresh fruit bunches and the interest thereon as per sub-section (3) of Section 20, then the Oil
palm Inspector shall furnish to the Collector and District Magistrate of the district or any other officer authorized by him
the value of the amounts due from the defaulters, the nature of the dues clearly specifying, the price of the Oil Palm
fresh fruit bunches, interest thereon, the details of the properties that may be attached for the recovery of the dues from
the defaulters in accordance with the provisions of the Andhra Pradesh Revenue Recovery Act, 1864.
Levy of Tax On Purchase of Oil Palm Fresh Fruit Bunches
34.
Oil Palm Inspector, appointed under Section 9 of the Act, shall be authority empowered to assess, levy and collect the
tax levied under Section 21 of the Act.
35.
The tax payable under subsection (1) of Section 21 of the Act shall be paid in respect of Oil Palm Fresh Fruit Bunches
purchased during a month before the 15th day of the following month and information in Form 5 shall be furnished
Page 8/12
----- PAGE 9 -----
Andhra Pradesh Oil Palm (Regulation of Production and Processing) Rules, 2008
before the 21st day of the following month.
36.
The amount of tax assessed under sub-section (1) of Section 21 of the Act by the authority stipulated in Rule 34 shall be
paid by the person or factory liable to pay under sub-section (3) of Section 21 of the Act into the nearest treasury within
15 days from the date of passing of the order of assessment after taking into account the tax already paid.
Recovery of Tax Unpaid As Land Revenue
37.
If any tax is due from any person or the factory unpaid in whole or in part there of at the end of the period specified in
Rule 36 above, the said tax or part thereof together with all sums payable in connection therewith shall be recoverable
as if it were an arrear of land revenue by the Collector and District Magistrate of the District in accordance with the
provisions of the Andhra Pradesh Revenue Recovery Act, 1864.
Chapter XI
Plucking Collection and Delivery of Oil Palm Fresh Fruit Bunches
38.
(1)
It is the duty of the Oil Palm Grower to harvest the Oil palm fresh fruit bunches from his fields and deliver them at the
collection center, to which the village is tagged as may be specified by the Oil Palm Commissioner. He shall also follow
the schedule of plucking and delivery which shall be given by the occupier of the factory. The Government shall hold the
right to amend this process wherever there is necessity.
(2)
The company shall lift the Oil Palm fruit promptly without causing any hardship to the farmers in such cases.
39.
The Oil Palm Inspector shall be informed well in advance regarding change of collection schedules.
Appendix-I
(See Rule 10)
Rules of Procedure For The Meeting of The Oil Palm Zonal Committee
1. All meetings of the Zonal Committee shall be held at a place notified by the Secretary with the approval of the
Chairman, but the meetings shall be within the jurisdiction of the factory zone provided that a meeting of the Committee
may be conveyed by the Member-Secretary when the post of Chairman of the Committee is vacant due to his
resignation, or for any other reasons.
2. Notice in writing about the meeting of the Committee and the agenda shall be circulated to all members not less than
one week before the meeting Notice of a resolution or motion to be moved at the meeting shall be given to the
Member-Secretary at least 10 days before the meeting.
3. All the meetings of the Committee shall be presided over by the Chairman. In the absence of the Chairman members
present shall elect a Chairman from among themselves.
4. At the meetings of the Committee three members including the Chairman shall form a quorum. If in any meeting there
is no quorum, the Chairman shall adjourn the meeting to any subsequent date and no quorum shall be necessary for the
meeting so adjourned.
5. Business, other than the one contained in the agenda shall not be transacted except with the approval of the
Chairman.
6. A motion or amendment may be withdrawn with the permission of the Chairman by any member who has given a
notice thereto.
7. Every question shall be decided by a majority of votes of the members who are entitled to vote and are present. In the
case of votes being equally divided the chairman shall exercise a second or casting vote. The Chairman shall be the
sole judge of any point of order and may call any member to order and may, if necessary dissolve the meeting or
adjourn to any other date.
8. An appeal against a resolution which is repugnant to the provisions of the Act and the regulation there under shall lie
to the Oil Palm Commissioner within one month from the date of passing such resolution for rectification.
Appendix-II
Form-I
(See Rule 11)
Page 9/12
----- PAGE 10 -----
Andhra Pradesh Oil Palm (Regulation of Production and Processing) Rules, 2008
Grower's Register
Name of the Village
:
Mandal
:
District
:
Name of the factory with address
:
Date of Planting
:
Name of the Collection Centre
:
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
SI.No.
Name of the Oil palm Grower with
Father's/Husband's Name
Total holding under Oil Palm Cultivation(in
Acres)
Survey Nos. of plots Oil palm Cultivation are
(Acres)
Quantity of Oil palm FFBs Produced (Metric Tons)
Remarks
Appendix-II
Form 2
(See Rule 30)
Notice of Nomination
To
The Oil Palm Commissioner,
Govt, of Andhra Pradesh, Hyderabad
Sir/Madam,
I/We....................hereby give notice that I/we have nominated.................(Name, Designation and address)..............to be
the Occupier/ Owner of the......for the purpose of the A.P. Oil palm (Regulation of Production and Processing) Act, 1993
and that he has accepted the nomination as such with effect from...........by affixing his signature to this form.
Signature of Person
Signature of
Nominated (with Address)
Occupier of factory
(with seal)
Signature of witnesses
With Addresses
1.
2.
Appendix-II
Form-3
(See Rule 24(1))
Page 10/12
----- PAGE 11 -----
Andhra Pradesh Oil Palm (Regulation of Production and Processing) Rules, 2008
Oil Palm Feb Supply Pass Book
Name of the Factory:
Name of the grower with code:
Name of the Grower with address:
Area under oil Palm (in Acres):
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
Date
Oil palm Purchased Gross wt. Net wt.
Survey No. date of planting
Rate for M.T.
Value
Authorized deduction
Amount paid paid
Balance to be officer of
Signature of the authorized occupier of factory
I/C of collection center
Appendix-II
Form-4
(See Rule 27)
Report For The Fortnight Ending
Name of the Collection Centre with Code:
1.
Quantity of Oil Palm fresh fruit bunches
purchased during the previous fortnight.
2.
Quantity of Oil Palm fresh fruit bunches
purchased up to the end of the previous fortnight (cumulative)
3.
Value of Oil palm fresh fruit bunches purchased
during the previous fortnight.
4.
Value of Oil palm fresh fruit bunches purchased
up to the end of previous fortnight (cumulative)
5.
Value of Oil palm fresh fruit bunches paid
during fortnight under report.
6.
Value of Oil palm fresh fruit bunches paid up to
the end of the fortnight under report (cumulative)
7.
Amount not paid within the stipulated period
(col.4 col 6)
8.
Page 11/12
----- PAGE 12 -----
Andhra Pradesh Oil Palm (Regulation of Production and Processing) Rules, 2008
Quantity of Oil palm fresh fruit bunches
purchased during the fortnight under report.
9.
Quantity of Oil palm fresh fruit bunches
purchased up to the end of the fortnight under report.
10.
Value of Oil palm fresh fruit bunches noted in
Col. 9
11.
Price yet to be paid (co. 11 co.6)
ToThe Oil Palm Commissioner,Govt, of Andhra Pradesh, Hyderabad
Signature of the Occupier of the Factory
Appendix-II
Form-5
(See Rule 35)
Return for the month of.................
Name of the factory with full Address:
1.
Total quantity of Oil palm fresh fruit bunches
which entered the factory for use consumption or sale therein (in
MTs)
2.
Total quantity of Oil palm fresh fruit bunches
purchased during the month (in MTs)
3.
Quantity of Oil palm fresh fruit bunches taken
for processing into the factory' from the factory's own lands or
lands taken on lease by the factory (in MT)
4.
Name of the Village and area referred to in Col.
3.
5.
Amount of Tax due on the Oil palm fresh fruit
bunches purchased by the factory.
6.
Amount of Tax credited into the treasury
7.
Number and date of Treasury challan or receipt
8.
Remarks.
Signature of the Occupier of the Factory
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 12/12