
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments Dharmika Parisha...
Andhra Pradesh Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and
Endowments Dharmika Parishad Rules, 2009
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/56111105/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments Dharmika Parishad Rules, 2009
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments Dharmika Parishad Rules, 2009
Rule
ANDHRA-PRADESH-CHARITABLE-AND-HINDU-RELIGIOUS-INSTITUTIONS-AND-ENDOWMENTS-DHARMIKA-PAR
ISHAD-RULES-2009 of 2009
Published on 25 November 2009
Commenced on 25 November 2009
[This is the version of this document from 25 November 2009.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Andhra Pradesh Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments Dharmika Parishad Rules, 2009
Published vide Notification No. G.O.Ms.No. 1206 Revenue (Endowments-1) Department, dated 25.11.2009
Last Updated 2nd September, 2019
G.O.Ms.No. 1206. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sub Section (3) of Section 152 of the Andhra Pradesh
Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments Act 1987 Andhra Pradesh (Act
30 of 1987
). The Government of Andhra Pradesh hereby makes the Andhra Pradesh Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments Dharmika Parisha...
and Endowments Dharmika Parishad Rules, as the same having been previously issued in G.O.Ms.No.1114, Revenue
(End ts.I) Department, Dated 16-9-2008 and published in the Andhra Pradesh Gazetted Extraordinary, dated 19th
September, 2008 as required under sub-section (1) of Section 153 of the said Act.
1.
Short title.
-  These rules may be called the Andhra Pradesh Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments
Dharmika Parishad Rules, 2009.
2.
Definitions.
-  In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires;
(a)
"Act" means the Andhra Pradesh Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments Act, 1987,
(b)
"Commissioner" means the Commissioner, Endowments Department, Andhra Pradesh appointed under Section 3(1) of
the Act and includes every officer who for the time being exercises the powers and performs the functions of the
Commissioner.
(c)
"Dharmika Parishad" means the Andhra Pradesh Dharmika Parishad constituted by the Government under Section
152(1) of the Act,
3.
The Government may nominate the duly appointed Chairmen of the Boards of trustees and recognized Mathadhipathis
etc. from the lists furnished by the Commissioner or any other suitable, eligible persons as members in the Dharmika
Parishad.
4.
The Chairman of Dharmika Parishad is authorized to exercise the functions of Dharmika Parishad in regard to
constitution of Trust Boards and any other matter of urgency and place the same before the Dharmika Parishad for
ratification in the next meeting.
5.
The action already initiated by the Government like issue of notification for appointment of Trust boards for the temples
and institutions coming under the purview of Andhra Pradesh Dharmika Parishad, shall be valid and the remaining
process shall be continued by the Andhra Pradesh Dharmika Parishad.
6.
The term of the Dharmika Parishad shall be three years from the date of taking oath of office.
7.
The term of each of the Chairman of Board of Trustees nominated to the Dharmika Parishad shall be Co-terminus with
their respective term as Chairman. They cease to be members of the Dharmika Parishad whenever they cease to be
Chairman of Board of Trustees.
8.
The Government may nominate another person for the remaining period in a vacancy caused by resignation, death or
disqualification etc., of a non-official member of Dharmika Parishad.
9.
No proceedings of the Dharmika Parishad shall be invalid because of a vacancy in the membership of the Parishad.
10.
No person shall be nominated to the Dharmika Parishad for more than two terms.
11.
Any non-official member of the Dharmika Parishad shall be disqualified from being appointed as such :
(i)
if he is an undischarged insolvent.
(ii)
If he is of unsound mind and stands so declared by a competent court or if he is a deaf-mute or is suffering from leprosy
or any virulent contagious disease.
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
Andhra Pradesh Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments Dharmika Parisha...
(iii)
If he is interested either directly or indirectly, in a subsisting lease of any property or of contract made, with, or any work
being done for, any institution or endowment or is in arrears of any kind due by him either to such institution or to
Government or to any statutory or local bodies.
(iv)
If he is appearing as a legal practitioner on behalf of or against the institution or endowment or Government.
(v)
If he has been sentenced by a criminal court for an offence involving moral turpitude, such sentence not having been
reversed.
(vi)
If he has acted adverse to the interest of the institution or endowment or Government.
(vii)
If he is an office holder or servant attached to any institution or endowment.
(viii)
If he is addicted to intoxicating liquors or drugs.
(ix)
If he has not completed the age of 45 years.
12.
A non-official member can resign his membership by sending a communication in writing to the Chairman of the
Dharmika Parishad. The resignation shall come into effect from the date of acceptance by the Government.
13.
There shall ordinarily be one meeting of the Dharmika Parishad in every three months. However, a special meeting of
the Dharmika Parishad may be convened, if the Chairman so desires or if a requisition in that behalf is presented to the
Chairman by at least 1/3rd members of the Dharmika Parishad and such requisition shall set out the matters for
consideration in the meeting.
14.
The date and venue of the meeting shall be such as may be decided by the Chairman.
15.
The ordinary meeting of the Dharmika Parishad may be called by giving not less than (15) days notice in writing and a
special meeting may be called by giving not less than 7 days notice in writing. However, the special meeting may be
called for by giving shorter notice if the urgency of the business to be transacted, so requires.
16.
An agenda for every meeting of Dharmika Parishad shall be prepared by the member secretary with the approval of the
Chairman and shall be circulated to the members in advance.
17.
The quorum necessary for the transaction of business at a meeting of the Dharmika Parishad shall be half of the sitting
members.
18.
Where a meeting has been adjourned for lack of quorum, the business which would have been brought before the
original meeting if there had been a quorum present there at, shall be brought before, and may be transacted at the
adjourned meeting, whether there is quorum present or not.
19.
The Special Chief Secretary/Principal Secretary Secretary, Revenue Department, in charge of the members of the
Religious and Charitable Institutions and Endowments shall chair the meeting in the absence of Chairman.
20.
All matters brought before any meeting of the Dharmika Parishad shall be decided by the majority of the votes of the
members present and voting.
21.
The Chairman or the person presiding over a meeting shall have and exercise a second or a casting vote in all cases of
equality of votes.
22.
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
Andhra Pradesh Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments Dharmika Parisha...
The minutes of the meeting shall be recorded by the Member Secretary and communicated to the members after
approval by the Chairman.
23.
(i)
The Chairman may in case of emergency, ascertain the opinion of the members by circulation of the records among the
members and, in case of unanimity of opinion, carry out the decision. If there is difference of opinion among the
members during such circulation, the matter shall be considered at an emergency meeting convened for that purpose.
(ii)
Where an unanimous decision is taken in circulation, it shall be placed before the next meeting of the Dharmika
Parishad for confirmation.
24.
The Chairman of the Dharmika Parishad may for the purpose of consultation, invite any person or persons having
experience or specialized knowledge in any subject under its consideration to attend any meeting of the Dharmika
Parishad, but, such persons shall have no right to vote.
25.
Every member or special invitee, not being an officer of the Government, performing journeys to attend the meeting of
the Dharmika Parishad, shall be entitled to claim travelling and other allowances as applicable to Class officers a State
level committee. The Commissioner of Endowments shall be the controlling and countersigning authority in respect of
such bills.
26.
(i)
The Dharmika Parishad may appoint, from amongst its members, such number of committees as the Dharmika Parishad
deems necessary with not more than 3 members and assign to them such functions and duties as it may consider for
the purpose which in turn has to submit its report to the Chairman of Dharmika Parishad.
(ii)
A member shall cease to be a member of such Committee if he ceases to be a member of the Dharmika Parishad.
(iii)
The Committee of the Dharmika Parishad may meet frequently depending upon the exigencies of work.
27.
The Commissioner shall be responsible for carrying out all lawful decisions and resolutions passed by the Dharmika
Parishad.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4