
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh Unaided Minority Professional institutions (Regulation of Admissions into U...
Andhra Pradesh Unaided Minority Professional institutions
(Regulation of Admissions into Undergraduate and Pharm.D (Doctor
of Pharmacy) Professional Courses through Common Entrance Test)
Rules, 2011
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/42364319/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh Unaided Minority Professional institutions (Regulation of Admissions into Undergraduate and Pharm.D
(Doctor of Pharmacy) Professional Courses through Common Entrance Test) Rules, 2011
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh Unaided Minority Professional institutions (Regulation of Admissions into Undergraduate and Pharm.D
(Doctor of Pharmacy) Professional Courses through Common Entrance Test) Rules, 2011
Rule
ANDHRA-PRADESH-UNAIDED-MINORITY-PROFESSIONAL-INSTITUTIONS-REGULATION-OF-ADMISSIONS-INTO-
UNDERGRADUATE-AND-PHARM-D-DOCTOR-OF-PHARMACY-PROFESSIONAL-COURSES-THROUGH-COMMON-
ENTRANCE-TEST-RULES-2011 of 2011
Published on 28 July 2011
Commenced on 28 July 2011
[This is the version of this document from 28 July 2011.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Page 1/12
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh Unaided Minority Professional institutions (Regulation of Admissions into U...
Andhra Pradesh Unaided Minority Professional institutions (Regulation of Admissions into Undergraduate and Pharm.D
(Doctor of Pharmacy) Professional Courses through Common Entrance Test) Rules, 2011
Published vide Notification No. G.O. Ms. No 75, Higher Education (EC.2), dated 28.7.2011
Last Updated 13th September, 2019
G.O. Ms. No 75. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sections 3 and 15 of the Andhra Pradesh Educational
Institutions (Regulation of Admissions and Prohibition of Capitation Fee) Act, 1983, and in supersession of the Andhra
Pradesh Unaided Minority Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions into under-Graduate, Pharm.D (Doctor
Pharmacy) Professional Courses through Common Entrance Test) Rules, 2006 issued in G.O.Ms.No.54, Higher
Education(EC) Dept, dated 10.5.2006, the Governor of Andhra Pradesh hereby makes the following Rules for admission
into under Graduate Professional Courses in Engineering (including Technology) and Pharmacy in Un-aided Minority
Professional Institutions.
1.
Short Title, applicability and commencement.
-  (i) These rules may be called the Andhra Pradesh Unaided Minority Professional institutions (Regulation of
Admissions into Undergraduate and Pharm.D (Doctor of Pharmacy) Professional Courses through Common Entrance
Test) Rules, 2011.
(ii)
They shall apply to all the Unaided Minority Professional Institutions imparting Under-Graduate professional Courses in
Engineering (Including Technology) and Pharmacy in the State.
(iii)
They shall come into force from the academic year 2011-12.
2.
Definitions.
- (i) In these rules, unless the context to otherwise requires, -
(a)
"Act" means the Andhra Pradesh Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admissions and Prohibition of Capitation Fee)
Act, 1983 (Andhra Pradesh Act
No. 5 of 1983
)
(b)
Admissions and Fee Regulatory Committee (AFRC) means Committee established and constituted by the Government
for regulating the admissions and for fixing the fees to be charged from candidates seeking admission into Unaided
Minority and Non-Minority Professional institutions.
(c)
"Common Entrance Test" means EAMCET/EAMCET-AC, the examination conducted for assigning rank or merit to
candidates, which will be the basis for admission of the candidates into the first year of concerned Under-Graduate
Courses in various Unaided Minority Professional Institutions in the State.
(d)
"Competent Authority" means the Chairman, Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education.
(e)
"Concerned Minority" means the Linguistic or Religious Minority status accorded to the Minority Institution by the
Government.
(f)
"Convener of EAMCET Admissions" means the Commissioner / Director of Technical Education or any other officer of
such rank, nominated by the Competent Authority for selection and allotment of candidates for admission.
(g)
"Convener of EAMCET-AC Admissions" means a person nominated by the Association(s) of Unaided Professional
Colleges for selection and allotment of qualified candidates for admission.
(h)
"Eligible Candidate" means the candidate who is eligible for admission as per the eligibility criteria prescribed under Rule
4 hereunder.
Page 2/12
----- PAGE 3 -----
Andhra Pradesh Unaided Minority Professional institutions (Regulation of Admissions into U...
(i)
"Government" means State Government of Andhra Pradesh.
(j)
"Inspecting Authority" means the Authority/Officer appointed by the AFRC for inspecting and scrutinizing the Admissions
of the candidates made in the Unaided Minority Professional Institutions.
(k)
"Institutions" means, unless otherwise specifically mentioned, all the Unaided Minority Professional Institutions imparting
Professional Courses in Engineering (including Technology),and Pharmacy.
(l)
"Minority Professional Institution" means the institution imparting professional education established and administered
for and by the concerned minority and recognised by the Government as such.
(m)
[ "Non-Resident Indian (NRI) candidate"  means a candidate born to a parent of Indian origin residing outside the
country and who has passed the qualifying examination or its equivalent;
[Substituted by Notification No. G.O.Ms. No. 67, dated 3.9.2012 (w.e.f. 28.7.2011).]
(n)
"Qualified Candidate" means the candidate who passed the qualifying examination obtained not less than 45% marks
(40% in case of reserved categories) in the prescribed group subjects and who has appeared for the Common Entrance
Test (EAMCET / EAMCET-AC), as the case may be, for admission into the related Professional Course and has been
assigned ranking in the Common Merit List under Rule 5 / 12 of the Andhra Pradesh Common Entrance Test for entry
into Engineering, Pharmacy, Agriculture, Medical and Dental courses Rules, 2011.
(o)
"Qualifying Examination" means the examination of the minimum qualification passing of which with not less than 45%
marks (40% in case of reserved categories) in the prescribed subjects which entitles one to seek admission into the
relevant Professional Course as prescribed in the Andhra Pradesh Common Entrance Test for entry into Engineering,
Pharmacy, Agricultural, Medical and Dental courses Rules, 2011".
(p)
"Single Window System" means a system by which available seats in all the Institutions are offered through Common
Centralized Counseling or Decentralized Online Counseling to qualified candidates in order of merit in the Common
Entrance Test .
(q)
"State Council" means the Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education, constituted under the Andhra Pradesh
Council of Higher Education Act, 1988 (Andhra Pradesh Act
No. 16 of 1988
).
(r)
"University" means the University concerned in which the particular courses are offered:
(ii)
Words and expressions used but not defined in these rules shall have the same meaning assigned to them in the
Andhra Pradesh Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admissions and Prohibition of Capitation Fee) Act, 1983 and
Andhra Pradesh Common Entrance Test for entry into Engineering, Pharmacy, Agriculture, Medical and Dental courses
Rules, 2011.
3.
Allotment Of Seats.
-  (i) The seats to be allotted in each Private Un-aided Minority Professional Institution under these Rules for Admission
of candidates shall be classified as:
(a)
Category A seats
(b)
Category B seats
(ii)
Page 3/12
----- PAGE 4 -----
Andhra Pradesh Unaided Minority Professional institutions (Regulation of Admissions into U...
The Category A seats shall be 70% of sanctioned intake of seats in each course in Un-Aided Minority Professional
Institution, which shall be filled with eligible candidates on the basis of rank obtained at EAMCET / EAMCET -AC as the
case may be and by following the provisions of Rule 6 (i) and the Rule of Reservation in Rule 7 hereunder.
(iii)
The Category B Seats shall be 30% of the total intake of seats in each course in Private Un-Aided Minority Professional
Institutions which shall be open for admission to all the eligible candidates including those from other States and Union
Territories of India and NRIs / NRI Sponsored Candidates on merit basis following the provisions of Rule 6(ii).
(iv)
The seats filled up by eligible minority candidates of the concerned minority, as a percentage of total seats, should
satisfy the minimum percentage norm as prescribed by the Government while according the minority status.
(v)
The sanctioned intake of seats in Under Graduate Pharmacy and Pharm.D (Doctor of Pharmacy) Courses in each
institution shall be filled up by eligible candidates from M.P.C. and BI.P.C. stream in the ratio of 50:50. Vacant seats, if
any, in either stream shall be filled up by eligible candidates in the other stream.
4.
Eligibility Criteria for Admission.
- The eligibility criteria for Admission into Engineering (including Technology), Pharmacy, and Professional Courses shall
be as mentioned below:-
(i)
The Candidate shall be an Indian National or Persons of Indian Origin (PIO) / Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) Card
Holders.
(ii)
In respect of Under-graduate Professional Courses in Engineering (Including Technology) and Pharmacy the candidate
should have completed 16years of age as on 31st December of the Academic year for which the admissions are being
conducted. In respect of Pharm.D (Doctor of Pharmacy) course the candidate should have completed 17years of age as
on 31st December of the Academic year for which the admissions are being conducted.
(iii)
The candidate should have passed the qualifying examination (10+2) conducted by the Board of Intermediate
Education, Andhra Pradesh or equivalent with Physics & Mathematics as compulsory subjects along with one of the
Chemistry/Bo-Technology/Biology subjects and obtained at-least 45% marks in the above subjects taken together/ (40%
in case of candidates belonging to reserved categories) and should have secured a rank at the Common Entrance Test
and shall satisfy other conditions laid down in these Rules:
(iv)
The Candidate should satisfy Local/Non-Local status requirement for admission into Category A seats as laid down in
the Andhra Pradesh Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admissions) order, 1974 as subsequently amended.
(v)
Candidates should satisfy the eligibility requirements for Admission into Category "B" seats as laid down in Rule 6(ii) of
these rules.
5.
Method of Admission.
- The general guidelines for the admission of candidates into Unaided Minority Professional Institutions offering
Engineering (Including Technology),and Pharmacy shall be as follows ,-
(i)
(a)
All the Category A seats shall be filled by the respective Institutions by admitting candidates as allotted by the Convener
of EAMCET admissions/ Convener of EAMCET - AC admissions, as the case may be, depending upon the option
exercised by the institution as per sub-clause (4) of clause (a) in Rule 11 of the Andhra Pradesh Common Entrance Test
for entry in to Engineering, Pharmacy Agriculture Medical and Dental courses Rules 2011.
(b)
All the Category B seats shall be filled by the respective Institution on merit basis following the procedure laid down Rule
6 (ii) hereunder.
Page 4/12
----- PAGE 5 -----
Andhra Pradesh Unaided Minority Professional institutions (Regulation of Admissions into U...
(ii)
The Convener of EAMCET admissions / Convener of EAMCET - AC admissions shall allot candidates to Institutions in
terms of Rules laid down herein.
(iii)
The admissions shall be made in the order of merit on the basis of the ranking assigned in EAMCET/EAMCET - AC as
per Rule 5/ Sub Rule (7) of Rule 12 of the Andhra Pradesh Common Entrance Test for entry into Engineering,
Pharmacy, Agriculture, Medical and Dental courses Rules, 2011.
(iv)
The total number of candidates to be admitted in each course in the Un-aided Minority Professional Institutions shall not
exceed the limits prescribed by the All India Council for Technical Education, Pharmacy Council of India, as the case
may be from time to time.
(v)
The admission of the candidates made in various Un-aided Minority Professional Institutions shall be subject to scrutiny
by the inspecting Authority appointed for the purpose.
6.
Procedure Of Admissions.
- (i) To Fill Up Category- A SEATS ( 70%):
(a)
Each Institution which has opted for EAMCET under sub clause (4) of clause (a) in Rule 11 of Andhra Pradesh Common
Entrance Test for entry into Engineering, Pharmacy, Agriculture, Medical and Dental courses Rules -2011 shall indicate
in writing to AFRC, by a cut-off date specified by it, as to whether the Institution would admit students through the Single
Windows System to be operated by the Convenor of EAMCET admissions or the Convenor of EAMCET-AC admissions.
(b)
For the purpose of admissions, all the Institutions shall be divided into three groups viz.,
(1)
SW-I : Institutions opting for Single Window System operated by Convenor of EAMCET admissions.
(2)
SW-II : Institutions opting for Single Window System operated by Convenor of EAMCET-AC admissions for EAMCET
rank holders.
(3)
SW-III : Institutions opting for Single Window System operated by Convenor of EAMCET-AC admissions for
EAMCET-AC rank holders.
(c)
Provided that only one sliding of admitted candidates shall be permissible between SW-I and SW-II if the candidate
seeking such sliding produces a No Objection Certificate from the Convener of the window where he/she was first
admitted.
The procedure to be followed for such admissions shall be as given below:
(A)
Admissions Into Minority Institutions Under Eamcet Stream:
(1)
The same Committee constituted by the Competent Authority for EAMCET Admissions vide rule 6(i) (a) of Andhra
Pradesh Unaided Non-Minority Professional Institutions (Regulation of Admissions into Under-Graduate and Pharm-D
(Doctor of Pharmacy) Professional Courses through Common Entrance Test) Rules, 2011 shall advise the Convenor of
EAMCET Admissions, in the matters relating to admissions into Institutions, which opted for SW-I and on such other
matters necessary for the smooth conduct of admissions.
(2)
The Convenor of EAMCET Admissions shall collect Rank lists of the qualified candidates of EAMCET prepared by the
Convenor of EAMCET, as per sub-rule (3) of Rule 5 of the Andhra Pradesh Common Entrance Test for entry into
Engineering, Pharmacy, Agriculture, Medical and Dental courses Rules, 2011.
(3)
The Convenor of EAMCET Admissions shall prepare and notify the schedule for admissions of candidates, venue,
Page 5/12
----- PAGE 6 -----
Andhra Pradesh Unaided Minority Professional institutions (Regulation of Admissions into U...
timings and all other necessary details in at least three leading newspapers one each in Telugu, Urdu and English, at
least 8-10 days before the commencement of counselling. The decision of the Committee for EAMCET Admissions shall
be final in issuing notification and the schedule and procedure of counselling.
(4)
The Convenor of EAMCET Admissions shall adopt computerised Single Window system of Counselling for the
convenience of the Candidates and shall prepare the seat matrix of Unaided Minority Professional Institutions. He shall
make all the necessary arrangements for manpower, admission venue, drawing scrutiny officers from other
departments, fee collection, networking, facilities for Online Counselling at various centers, mobilization of software etc.,
in consultation with the Admission Committee.
(5)
No Management of Unaided Minority Professional Institution shall issue notification and call for applications for
admission separately or individually except as provided in sub rule (ii) of Rule 6.
(6)
(a)
Minority candidates shall be called for counselling and provisional allotment of courses / Institutions shall be made in the
order of merit assigned to them at EAMCET by following the rules of reservation as laid down in Rule 7 hereunder firstly
in the order of merit assigned in EAMCET and secondly in the order of merit assigned in the qualifying examination to
other eligible candidates.
(b)
Vacant seats, if any, at the end of the above counselling process shall be filled up by single window counselling by
inviting candidates, other than the concerned minority in the order of merit assigned in EAMCET.
(7)
The selection of candidates as above and allotment of Courses / Institutions in respect of Unaided Minority Professional
Institutions, shall be solely on the basis of merit and following the preferential order as provided under clause (6) above
subject to the condition that the candidate should have passed the qualifying examination. However, mere appearance
at the Entrance Test and obtaining rank in the merit list does not entitle a candidate to be considered for admission
automatically into any Course / Institution unless he / she also satisfies the rules and regulations of admission
prescribed by the concerned University / Government including marks to be obtained in the qualifying examination.
(8)
Once a candidate secures admission to a particular College / Institution based on his / her option, no more claim for
admission into other Colleges, to any other kind of seat or any other course, be entertained during that phase of
admissions except for the facility of sliding as provided under clause (c) above.
(9)
The candidates admitted into Unaided Minority Professional Institutions shall pay at the time of admission the fees
payable per student per annum as prescribed by the AFRC.
(10)
The Convener, EAMCET Admissions shall hand over the vacant seats, if any, to the Institutions concerned only after
conducting single window counselling as provided for under clause (6) above.
(11)
The institution shall fill, on merit basis, such vacant seats handed over by the Convenor of Admissions duly conducting
internal sliding initially in each course before issuing the notification for admissions by the individual Institutions. The
vacant seats so arising in each course, after the exercise of internal sliding, shall be filled up following the rule of
reservation as provided in Rule 7 hereunder first with the eligible candidates belonging to the concerned minority and
then with eligible candidates other than the concerned minority.
(12)
The Institution shall obtain ratification from the Competent Authority for all the admissions including internal sliding
conducted by the Institution.
(13)
The Convener of EAMCET Admissions shall prepare the final list of candidates, admitted course-wise and
Institution-wise and send the same to concerned Universities, Institutions and AFRC.
(14)
Page 6/12
----- PAGE 7 -----
Andhra Pradesh Unaided Minority Professional institutions (Regulation of Admissions into U...
The Competent Authority in consultation with the Committee of EAMCET Admission shall fix the cut off dates for each
stage of admissions.
(15)
All the candidates called for Counselling shall produce the specified original documents along with duly attested
photocopies and the Convenor of EAMCET Admissions shall be entitled to cause verification of all the documents
produced by the candidates.
(B)
Admissions Into Minority Institutions Under SW-II and SW-III:
(1)
Separate Committees for EAMCET-AC Admissions into institutions, which opted for SW-II and SW-III shall be
constituted by the Concerned Association of Unaided Professional Colleges to advise the Convenors of EAMCET-AC
Admissions, in the matters relating to admissions and on such other matters necessary for the smooth conduct of
Admissions.
(2)
The Conveners of EAMCET -AC Admissions shall collect Rank lists of the qualified candidates of EAMCET AND
EAMCET -AC prepared by the Convener of EAMCET AND EAMCET-AC, as per sub-rule (3) of Rule 5 Clause (c) of
sub- rule (7) of Rule 12 of the Andhra Pradesh Common Entrance Test for entry into Engineering, Pharmacy,
Agriculture, Medical and Dental courses Rules, 2011.
(3)
The respective Conveners of EAMCET-AC Admissions shall prepare and notify the schedules for admissions in respect
of SW-II and SW-III, venue, timings and all other necessary details in at least three leading newspapers one each in
Telugu, Urdu and English, at least 8-10 days before the commencement of counselling. The decision of the concerned
Committee for EAMCET-AC Admissions shall be final in issuing notification, schedule and procedure of counselling.
(4)
The Convener of EAMCET-AC Admissions shall adopt computerised Single Window System of Counselling either by
following centralized or decentralized Online Counselling at various centres for the convenience of the Candidates and
shall prepare the seat matrix of Unaided Minority Professional Institutions. He shall make all the necessary
arrangements for manpower, admission venue, drawing scrutiny officers from other departments, fee collection,
networking, facilities for Online Counselling at various centres, mobilization of software etc., in consultation with the
Admission Committee.
(5)
No Management of Unaided Minority Professional Institution shall issue notification and call for applications for
admission separately or individually except as provided in sub clause (11) of Clause A of sub rule (i) above and sub
clause (11) below.
(6)
(a)
Concerned minority candidates shall be called for counseling and provisional allotment of courses / institutions shall be
made by observing the rule of reservation as laid down under Rule 7 hereunder in the following preferential order:
(i)
For SW-II Institutions. - Firstly in the order of merit assigned in EAMCET and secondly in the order of merit assigned in
the qualifying examination to other eligible candidates.
(ii)
For SW-III Institutions. - Firstly, in the order of merit assigned in EAMCET-AC, secondly in the order of merit assigned in
EAMCET and thirdly in the order of merit in the qualifying examination.
(b)
Vacant seats, if any, at the end of the above counselling process shall be filled up by single window counselling by
inviting candidates, other than the concerned minority in the following preferential order.
(i)
For SW-II Institutions. -  In the order of merit assigned in EAMCET.
(ii)
For SW-III Institutions. - Firstly in the order of merit assigned in EAMCET-AC and secondly in the order of merit
Page 7/12
----- PAGE 8 -----
Andhra Pradesh Unaided Minority Professional institutions (Regulation of Admissions into U...
assigned in EAMCET"
(7)
The selection of candidates and allotment of Courses / Institutions in respect of Unaided Minority Professional
Institutions, shall be solely on the basis of merit and following the preferential order as provided under clause (6) above
subject to the condition that the candidate should have passed the qualifying examination. However, mere appearance
at the Entrance Test and obtaining rank in the merit list does not entitle a candidate to be considered for admission
automatically into any Course / Institution unless he / she also satisfies the rules and regulations of admission
prescribed by the concerned University / Government including marks to be obtained in the qualifying examination.
(8)
Once a candidate secures admission to a particular College / Institution based on his / her option, no more claim for
admission into other Colleges, to any other kind of seat or any other course, be entertained during that phase of
admissions under the same Single Window System except for the facility of sliding as provided for under clause (c) of
sub rule (i) of rule 6 above.
(9)
The candidates admitted into Unaided Minority Professional Institutions shall pay at the time of admission the fees
payable per student per annum as prescribed by the AFRC.
(10)
The Convener, EAMCET-AC Admissions shall handover the vacant seats, if any, to the Institutions concerned only after
conducting single window counselling as provided for under clause (6) above.
(11)
The institution shall fill, on merit basis, such vacant seats handed over by the Convenor of Admissions duly conducting
internal sliding initially in each course before issuing the notification for admissions by the individual Institutions. The
vacant seats so arising in each course, after the exercise of internal sliding, shall be filled up following the rule of
reservation as provided in Rule 7 hereunder first with the eligible candidates belonging to the concerned minority and
then with eligible candidates belonging to other than the concerned minority.
(12)
The Institution shall obtain ratification from the Competent Authority for the all admissions including internal sliding
conducted by the Institution.
(13)
Convener of EAMCET-AC Admissions shall prepare the final list of candidates, admitted course-wise and
Institution-wise and send the same to the concerned University, Institution and AFRC.
(14)
The Competent Authority in consultation with the Committee of EAMCET- AC Admission shall fix the cut off dates for
each stage of admissions.
(15)
All the candidates called for Counselling shall produce the specified original documents along with duly attested
photocopies and the Convenor of EAMCET-AC Admissions shall be entitled to cause verification of all the documents
produced by the candidates.
(ii)
[ To Fill Up Category-B Seats (30%):
[Substituted by Notification No. G.O.Ms. No. 67, dated 3.9.2012 (w.e.f. 28.7.2011).]
-
1. The Institution shall conduct Admissions to the seats available as specified below:
(i)
The Institution shall not issue notification . and receive the applications until the EAMCET admission notification is
issued by the Competent Authority. In the interests of students, the Competent Authority may suggest dates for different
milestones in the admission process.
(ii)
The institutions that are approved by All India Council for Technical Education and permitted to fill NRI seats not
exceeding 5% of the sanctioned intake in each course for the academic year shall admit NRI candidates (sons and
daughters of NRIs) who have passed the qualifying examination with not less than 50% marks in the prescribed group
Page 8/12
----- PAGE 9 -----
Andhra Pradesh Unaided Minority Professional institutions (Regulation of Admissions into U...
subjects or 50% aggregate marks in the qualifying examination^ or Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) equivalent
to 5 on a scale of 10.
(iii)
The remaining seats shall be filled on merit basis with candidates including from other States and Union territories who
have secured rank at AIEEE and secured not less than 45% of marks in the prescribed group subjects in the qualifying
examination.
(iv)
The seats remaining unfilled from (ii) and (iii) above shall be filled with eligible candidates, who have qualified the
EAMCET examination on merit basis following eligibility criteria laid in Rule (4) of these rules.
(v)
Thereafter, if any seats still remain unfilled such seats may be filled on merit basis with candidates securing not less
than 45% (40% in case of candidates belonging to reserved categories) of marks in the prescribed group subjects taken
together / aggregate marks in the qualifying examinations, as prescribed.
2. The Institutions shall follow the procedure mentioned below to conduct the Admissions:
(i)
The Competent Authority shall facilitate the setting up of a web portal which will act as a "Single Window for Category 'B'
seats" for both the Colleges and the Students for filling up of the "Category B" seats.
(ii)
Each college will be provided a Unique ID and password to port its data relating to the category 'B' seats in the said
portal.
(iii)
Subsequently, all colleges will be provided with a digital signature to ensure secure access of their operations.
(iv)
The colleges shall port all the relevant data regarding the Category"B" seats, branch wise as provided in the said web
portal.
(v)
Once the data is finally entered by the managements no change shall be permitted.
(vi)
The web portal shall provide the students, the facility for making online applications for the Category 'B' seats. A
printable/recordable electronic acknowledgement shall be provided to the student on successful uploading of his online
application. This will dispense with the need for the student to physically visit each and every college besides ushering in
transparency.
(vii)
The management of the Colleges shall notify the details of courses offered with intakes, schedule of admissions(date
wise), registration fee for the application, minority or nonminority status in leading news dailies one in each language
i.e., English, Telugu & Urdu & which will also be uploaded on the web portal hosted by the Competent Authority.
(viii)
The Competent Authority will suggest a time schedule with dates for such notification to enable the students to opt for
category 'B' seats uniformly across the state. All admissions to the category 'B' seats will be completed during the
suggested time period.
(ix)
On the dates as suggested by the Competent Authority, the web portal will be opened for all students desirous of
seeking admissions to Category 'B' Seats in all Private'Un-Aided Professional colleges in the State. Candidates can
apply to colleges of their choice by visiting the portal only during the suggested dates by the Competent Authority.
(x)
A candidate can select any of the college/colleges and apply online for seeking admissions to Category 'B' seats of
college/colleges after paying the requisite registration fees as notified by the college.
(xi)
The candidate can also give his order of preference for admission to a college by giving the order of preference among
the courses offered by the college in the online application form. Only one form needs to be filled for a college
regardless of the number of options.
Page 9/12
----- PAGE 10 -----
Andhra Pradesh Unaided Minority Professional institutions (Regulation of Admissions into U...
(xii)
The candidate can apply for more than one college by visiting the respective website of colleges and apply online after
paying the registration fees specified for each college.
(xiii)
No new application will be accepted after the closing date of admissions to the college.
(xiv)
The Management of the college will solely upload the data and administer the selection process as per the admission
procedure specified. Each college will be permitted to dowmload the data of the applications received and pertaining to
it, after the closing date as suggested by the Competent Authority.
(xv)
Thereafter, the college can at its option use the online merit generation facility available on the web portal.The merit list
generated will be in order of NRI quota(if available), AIEEE rankers, EAMCET rankers & qualifying examination in order
of merit as prescribed in Rule 6 (ii) (1) of these rules.
(xvi)
The selection of candidates will be done by the college managements themselves, as per the merit of the candidates.
(xvii)
The selection list, after selection process is completed by the management of respective colleges as per the prescribed
norms will be uploaded by the managements on the web portal and be transmitted online to the Competent Authority.
(xviii)
The Competent Authority will verify the list of the selected candidates and validate the same with reference to the G.O.s
and the procedure prescribed through an online cross verification procedure based on applications received by a
college.
(xix)
The Competent Authority shall approve the validated list if found tallying by the cross validation process or reject the lists
if found to be at variance to the rules and procedures prescribed, and communicate the same to the concerned colleges
for compliance.
(xx)
In case of unfilled seats if any, the concerned colleges will again upload for validation the second list of selected
candidates from out of the left over candidates who have applied in the portal. After generation of the merit list, the
college managements will forward the applications and approval by Competent Authority as per the schedule prescribed
by the Competent Authority.
(xxi)
Applications of candidates not fulfilling the required conditions during the online cross validation of the list by the
Competent Authority will summarily be rejected.
(xxii)
The Competent Authority shall open a helpline to assist the candidates and college managements to sort out their
grievances and provide technical support if needed.
(xxiii)
The Competent Authority will issue detailed operational guidelines for using the web portal besides prescribing a fee for
usage of the portal by the managements of colleges and applicants.
(xxiv)
The Management shall collect the Tuition fee as prescribed by the Government for category 'B' seats and any excess
fee collected will amount to capitation fee and Managements are liable for action under A.P. Educational Institutions
(Regulation of Admissions and Prohibition of Capitation fee) Act, 1983.
(xxv)
Any complaint/appeal against the selection shall be made to the Admission and Fee Regulatory Committee (AFRC).
(xxvi)
The managements shall comply with the above instructions and failure in implementing the same shall entail actions as
per the relevant Acts and Rules in force.]
7.
Rules of Reservation for admission.
Page 10/12
----- PAGE 11 -----
Andhra Pradesh Unaided Minority Professional institutions (Regulation of Admissions into U...
- Category A Seats shall be reserved to the following categories in Admissions to Professional courses:
Region-wise reservation of seats. - Admission to 85% of the seats in each Course shall be reserved for the Local
candidates and the remaining 15% of the seats shall be Unreserved seats as specified in the Andhra Pradesh
Educational Institutions (Regulations and Admissions) Order, 1974 as subsequently amended.
Explanation. - For purpose of these rules,
(i)
Local Areas means:
(1)
The part of the State comprising the districts of Adilabad, Hyderabad (including Twin Cities) Ranga Reddy, Karimnagar,
Khammam, Medak, Mahaboobnagar, Nalgonda, Nizamabad and Warangal shall be regarded as the Local Area for the
purpose of admission to the Osmania University, the Kakatiya University and the Telangana University and to any other
educational institutions (other than a state-wide university or state-wide educational institution) which is subject to the
control of the State Government and is situated in that part.
(2)
The part of the State Comprising the districts of Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, East Godavari, West
Godavari, Krishna, Guntur and Prakasam shall be regarded as the Local Area for the purpose of admission to the
Andhra University, the Acharya Nagarjuna University and Adikavi Nannaya University and to any other educational
institutions (other than a state-wide university or state-wide educational institution) which is subject to the control of the
State Government and is situated in that part.
(3)
The part of the State Comprising the districts of Anantapur, Kurnool, Chittoor, Cuddapah and Nellore shall be regarded
as the Local Area for the purpose of admission to the Sri Venkateswara University, the Sri Krishnadevara University and
the Yogi Vemana University and to any other educational institutions (other than a state-wide university or state-wide
educational institution) which is subject to the control of the State Government and is situated in that part.
(ii)
The Local Candidate means:
(A)
A candidate for admission shall be regarded as a local candidate in relation to a local area -
(a)
If he has studied in educational Institution or educational Institutions in such local area for a period of not less than four
consecutive academic years ending with the academic year in which he appeared or as the case may be, first appeared
in the relevant qualifying examination, or
(b)
Where, during the whole or any part of the four consecutive academic years ending with the academic year in which he
appeared or, as the case may be, first appeared for the relevant qualifying examination, he has not studied in any
educational Institutions, if he has resided in that local area for a period of not less than four years immediately preceding
the date of commencement of the relevant qualifying examination in which he appeared or, as the case may be, first
appeared.
(B)
A candidate for admission to the Course who is not regarded as local candidate under clause (A) in relation to any local
area shall, -
(a)
If he has studied in educational Institutions in the State for a period of not less than seven consecutive academic years
ending with the academic year in which he appeared or, as the case may be, first appeared for the relevant qualifying
examination be regarded as a local candidate in relation to,
(i)
Such local area where he has studied for the maximum period out of said period of seven years, or
(ii)
Where the period of his study in two or more local areas are equal, such local area, where he has studied last in such
equal period, or
(b)
Page 11/12
----- PAGE 12 -----
Andhra Pradesh Unaided Minority Professional institutions (Regulation of Admissions into U...
If, during the whole or any part of seven consecutive academic years ending with the academic year in which he
appeared or, as case may be, first appeared for the relevant qualifying examination, he has not studied in the
educational Institutions in any local area, but has resided in the State during the whole of the said period of seven years,
be regarded as a local candidate in relation to
(i)
Such local area where he has resided for the maximum period out of the said period of seven years, or
(ii)
Where the periods of his residence in two or more local areas are equal, such local area where he has resided last in
such equal periods.
(C)
The following categories of candidates are eligible to apply for admission to the remaining 15% of un-reserved seats:
(a)
All the candidates eligible to be declared as local candidates
(b)
Candidates who have resided in the State for a total period of 10 years excluding periods of study outside the State or
either of whose parents have resided in the State for a total period of ten years excluding period of employment outside
the State.
(c)
Candidates who are children of parents who are in the employment of this State or Central Government, Public Sector
Corporations, Local Bodies, Universities and other similar quasi-public Institutions, within the State.
(d)
Candidates who are spouses of those in the employment of the State or Central Government, Public Sector
Corporations, Local Bodies, Universities and Educational Institutions recognized by the Government or University OR
other competent authority and similar quasi Government Institutions within the State.
(D)
If a local candidate in respect of a local area is not available to fill any seat reserved or allocated in favour of a local
candidate in respect of that local area, such seat shall be filled if it had not been reserved.
Note. - For details, see the Andhra Pradesh Educational Institutions (Regulations of Admission) Order, 1974 as
subsequently amended.
8.
Penalty for violation of rules.
- In case of violation of Admission rules laid herein by any private institution thereby resulting in making irregular
admissions such institutions shall be liable for penalty or cancellation of affiliation of the University concerned or for
referring the matter to apex bodies like All India Council of Technical Education / Pharmacy Council of India / Council of
Architecture disqualifying the college from making admission in future.
9.
Fee for Engineering (including Technology) / Pharmacy Colleges.
- (i) "The fee payable per student per annum for each discipline in each institution shall be as prescribed by the
Admission and Fee Regulatory Committee.
(ii)
The fee prescribed and collected, if any, from NRIs / NRI Sponsored Candidates, in excess of the fees prescribed for
non-NRI candidates under Category B, shall be utilized for benefiting the students from economically weaker sections of
the society whose eligibility criteria shall be as notified by the Government. The mechanism for extending such benefit to
the students belonging to economically weaker sections shall be as prescribed by the Admission and Fee Regulatory
Committee.
(iii)
The Government may notify specific Fee Waiver Scheme(s) with the approval of Admission and Fee Regulatory
Committee for benefiting the disadvantageous sections of Society.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 12/12