
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh Unaided Non- Minority Professional institutions (Regulation of Admissions i...
Andhra Pradesh Unaided Non- Minority Professional institutions
(Regulation of Admissions into Under-graduate and Pharm.D (Doctor
of Pharmacy) Professional Courses through Common Entrance Test)
Rules, 2011
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/161494944/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh Unaided Non- Minority Professional institutions (Regulation of Admissions into Under-graduate and
Pharm.D (Doctor of Pharmacy) Professional Courses through Common Entrance Test) Rules, 2011
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh Unaided Non- Minority Professional institutions (Regulation of Admissions into Under-graduate and
Pharm.D (Doctor of Pharmacy) Professional Courses through Common Entrance Test) Rules, 2011
Rule
ANDHRA-PRADESH-UNAIDED-NON-MINORITY-PROFESSIONAL-INSTITUTIONS-REGULATION-OF-ADMISSIONS-I
NTO-UNDER-GRADUATE-AND-PHARM-D-DOCTOR-OF-PHARMACY-PROFESSIONAL-COURSES-THROUGH-COM
MON-ENTRANCE-TEST-RULES-2011 of 2011
Published on 28 July 2011
Commenced on 28 July 2011
[This is the version of this document from 28 July 2011.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Page 1/13
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh Unaided Non- Minority Professional institutions (Regulation of Admissions i...
Andhra Pradesh Unaided Non- Minority Professional institutions (Regulation of Admissions into Under-graduate and
Pharm.D (Doctor of Pharmacy) Professional Courses through Common Entrance Test) Rules, 2011
Published vide Notification No. G.O.Ms. No. 74, dated 28.7.2011
Last Updated 13th September, 2019
Notification No. G.O.Ms. No. 74. - In the G.O. 1st read above Government have issued rules for Admission of students
in Professional courses in Unaided Non-Minority Institutions. The said rules were subsequently amended through the
G.Os 2nd to 11th read above. The All India Council for Technical Education has notified a new Regulation in vide
reference 12th read above for prescribing 45% qualifying marks for entry into under graduate professional courses (40%
in case of Reserved Categories) in the aggregate or group subject. In view of the above, Government have decided to
issue a fresh set of Comprehensive rules for Admission of students in Professional courses in Unaided Non-Minority
Institutions.
1.
Short Title, applicability and commencement.
- (i) These rules may be called the Andhra Pradesh Unaided Non- Minority Professional institutions (Regulation of
Admissions into Under-graduate and Pharm.D (Doctor of Pharmacy) Professional Courses through Common Entrance
Test) Rules, 2011.
(ii)
They shall apply to all Unaided non-Minority Professional Institutions imparting Under-Graduate professional Courses in
Engineering (Including Technology) and Pharmacy in the State.
(iii)
They shall come into force from the academic year 2011-12.
2.
Definitions.
- (i) In these rules, unless the context to otherwise requires:
(a)
"Act" means the Andhra Pradesh Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admissions and Prohibition of Capitation Fee)
Act, 1983 (Andhra Pradesh Act
No. 5 of 1983
).
(b)
"Admissions and Fee Regulatory Committee" (AFRC) means Committee established and constituted by the Government
for regulating the admissions and for fixing the fees to be charged from candidates seeking admission into Unaided
Minority and Non- Minority Professional institutions.
(c)
"Common Entrance Test" means EAMCET/EAMCETAC, the examination conducted for assigning rank or merit to
candidates, which will be the basis for admission of the candidates into the first year of concerned Under-Graduate
Courses in various Unaided Non-Minority Professional Institutions in the State.
(d)
"Competent Authority" means the Chairman, Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education.
(e)
"Convener of EAMCET Admissions" means the Commissioner / Director of Technical Education or any other officer of
such rank, nominated by the Competent Authority for selection and allotment of candidates for admission.
(f)
"Convener of EAMCET-AC Admissions" means a person nominated by the Association(s) of Unaided Professional
Colleges for selection and allotment of qualified candidates for admission.
(g)
"Eligible Candidate" means the candidate who is eligible for admission as per the eligibility criteria prescribed under Rule
4 hereunder.
(h)
"Government" means State Government of Andhra Pradesh.
(i)
Page 2/13
----- PAGE 3 -----
Andhra Pradesh Unaided Non- Minority Professional institutions (Regulation of Admissions i...
"Inspecting Authority" means the Authority/Officer appointed by the Admission and Fee Regulatory Committee for
inspecting and scrutinising the Admissions of the candidates made in the Un-aided Professional Institutions.
(j)
"Institutions" means, unless otherwise specifically mentioned, all the Unaided Non-Minority Professional Institutions
imparting Professional Courses in Engineering (Including Technology) and Pharmacy.
(k)
[ "Non Resident Indian (NRI) candidate" means a candidate born to a parent of Indian origin residing outside the country
and who has passed the qualifying examination or its equivalent;]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.O.Ms. No. 66, dated 3.9.2012 (w.e.f. 28.7.2011).]
(l)
"Qualified Candidate" means the candidate who passed the qualifying examination obtained not less than 45% marks
(40% in case of Reserved Categories) in the prescribed group subjects and has appeared for the Common Entrance
Test EAMCET/EAMCET-AC, as the case may be, for admission into the related Professional Course and has been
assigned ranking in the Common Merit List.
(m)
"Qualifying Examination" means the examination of the minimum qualification passing of which with not less than 45%
marks (40% in case of reserved categories) in the prescribed group subjects entitles one to seek admission into the
relevant Professional Course as prescribed in the Andhra Pradesh Common Entrance Test for entry into Engineering;
Pharmacy, Agricultural, Medical and Dental courses Rules, 2011.
(n)
"Single Window System" means a system by which available seats in all the Institutions are offered through Common
Centralized Counseling or Decentralized Online Counseling to qualified candidates in order of merit in the Common
Entrance Test.
(o)
"State Council" means the Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education, constituted under the Andhra Pradesh
Council of Higher Education Act, 1988 (Andhra Pradesh Act No.16 of 1988).
(p)
"University" means the University concerned in which the particular courses are offered
(ii)
Words and expressions used but not defined in these rules shall have the same meaning assigned to them in the
Andhra Pradesh Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admission and Prohibition of Capitation Fee) Act, 1983. (Andhra
Pradesh Act
5 of 1983
) and the Andhra Pradesh Common Entrance Test for entry into Engineering, Pharmacy, Agriculture, Medical and Dental
Courses Rules, 2011.
3.
Allotment of Seats.
- (i) The seats to be allotted in each Un-aided Non-Minority Professional Institution under these Rules for Admission of
Candidates shall be classified as:
(1)
Category A seats
(2)
Category B seats
(ii)
The Category A seats shall be 70% of sanctioned intake of seats in each course in Un-Aided Non-Minority Professional
Institution, which shall be filled with eligible candidates on the basis of Rank obtained at EAMCET / EAMCET-AC, as the
case may be, following the provision of sub rule (i) of Rule 6 and Rule of Reservation laid down in Rule 7.
(iii)
The Category B Seats shall be 30% of the total intake of seats in each course in respect of Un-Aided Non-Minority
Professional Institutions, which shall be open for admission to all the eligible candidates on merit basis including
candidates belonging to other States and Union Territories of India and NRIs / NRI Sponsored Candidates, following the
Page 3/13
----- PAGE 4 -----
Andhra Pradesh Unaided Non- Minority Professional institutions (Regulation of Admissions i...
provisions of sub rule (ii) of Rule 6.
(iv)
The sanctioned intake of seats in Under graduate Pharmacy and Pharm.D (Doctor of Pharmacy) Courses in each
institution shall be filled up by eligible candidates from M.P.C. and Bi.P.C streams in the ratio of 50:50. Vacant seats, if
any, in either stream shall be filled up by eligible candidates in the other stream.
4.
Eligibility Criteria for Admission.
- The eligibility criteria for Admission into Engineering (including Technology), Pharmacy, and Professional Courses shall
be as mentioned below:
(i)
The Candidate shall be an Indian National or Persons of Indian Origin (PIO) / Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) Card
Holders.
(ii)
In respect of Under-graduate Professional Courses in Engineering (Including Technology) and Pharmacy the candidate
should have completed 16years of age as on 31st December of the Academic year for which the admissions are being
conducted. In respect of Pharm.D (Doctor of Pharmacy) course the candidate should have completed 17years of age as
on 31st December of the Academic year for which the admissions are being conducted.
(iii)
The candidate should have passed the qualifying examination (10+2) conducted by the Board of Intermediate
Education, Andhra Pradesh or equivalent with Physics & Mathematics as compulsory subjects along with one of the
Chemistry/Bo-Technology/Biology subjects and obtained at-least 45% marks in the above subjects taken together/ (40%
in case of candidates belonging to reserved categories) and should have secured a rank at the Common Entrance Test
and shall satisfy other conditions laid down in these Rules:
(iv)
The Candidate should satisfy Local/Non-Local status requirement for admission into Category A seats as laid down in
the Andhra Pradesh Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admissions) order, 1974 as subsequently amended.
(v)
Candidates should satisfy the eligibility requirements for Admission into Category 'B' seats as laid down in Rule 6(ii) of
these rules.
5.
Method of Admission.
- The general guidelines for the admission of candidates into Private Un-Aided Non-Minority Professional Institutions
offering Engineering (Including Technology) and Pharmacy shall be as follows,-
(i)
(1) All the Category A seats shall be filled by the respective Institutions by admitting candidates as allotted by the
Convener of EAMCET admissions/ Convener of EAMCET - AC admissions, as the case may be, depending upon the
option exercised by the institution as per sub-clause (4) of clause (a) in Rule 11 of the Andhra Pradesh Common
Entrance Test for entry in to Engineering, Pharmacy, Agriculture, Medical and Dental courses Rules, 2011.
(2)
All the Category B seats shall be filled by the respective Institutions on merit basis following the procedure laid down in
the Rule 6(ii) hereunder.
(ii)
The Convener of EAMCET admissions / Convener of EAMCET - AC admissions shall allot candidates to Institutions in
terms of Rules laid down herein.
(iii)
The admissions shall be made in the order of merit on the basis of the ranking assigned in EAMCET/EAMCET - AC as
per Rule 5 / sub Rule (7) of Rule 12 of the Andhra Pradesh Common Entrance Test for entry into Engineering,
Pharmacy, Agriculture, Medical and Dental courses Rules, 2011.
(iv)
The total number of candidates to be admitted in each course in the Un-aided Non-Minority Professional Institutions
shall not exceed the limits prescribed by the All India Council for Technical Education / Pharmacy Council of India, as
Page 4/13
----- PAGE 5 -----
Andhra Pradesh Unaided Non- Minority Professional institutions (Regulation of Admissions i...
the case may be from time to time
(v)
The admission of the candidates made in various Un-aided Non- Minority Professional Institutions shall be subject to
scrutiny by the inspecting Authority appointed for the purpose.
6.
Procedure of Admissions.
- (i) To Fill Up Category- A Seats (70%): For the purpose of admissions for Category- A seats, all the Institutions shall be
divided into two groups viz., EAMCET and EAMCET -AC streams basing on the option exercised by them as per
sub-clause (4) of clause (a) in Rule 11 of Andhra Pradesh Common Entrance Test for entry into Engineering, Pharmacy,
Agriculture, Medical and Dental courses Rules -2011. There shall be separate counseling for admission in respect of
each stream through Single Window System. The procedure to be followed for such admissions shall be as given below:
(a)
Admissions Into Non-Minority Institutions Under Eamcet Stream:
(1)
A Committee for EAMCET Admission into Institutions, which opted for EAMCET, shall be constituted by the Competent
Authority with the following members to advise the Convenor of EAMCET Admissions, in the matters relating to
admissions and on such other matters necessary for the smooth conduct of admissions.
(a)
Chairman of Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education. ........(Chairman)
(b)
Secretary of Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education.
(c)
Convener of EAMCET Admissions (Member Convener).
(d)
Professor in-charge of Computer / online systems in admission camp.
(e)
Two representatives of the Universities as nominated by the State Council.
(f)
Three representatives of the Private Unaided Technical Institutions as nominated by the State Council.
(g)
Commissioner / Director of Technical Education or his nominee.
(h)
One special invitee nominated by the State Council.
(2)
The Convener of EAMCET Admissions shall collect Rank lists of the qualified candidates of EAMCET prepared by the
Convenor of EAMCET, as per sub-rule (3) of Rule 5 of the Andhra Pradesh Common Entrance Test for entry into
Engineering, Pharmacy, Agriculture, Medical and Dental courses Rules, 2011.
(3)
The Convener of EAMCET Admissions shall prepare and notify the schedule for admissions, venue, timings and all
other necessary details in at least three leading newspapers one each in Telugu, Urdu and English, at least 8-10 days
before the commencement of counselling. The decision of the Committee for EAMCET Admissions shall be final in
issuing notification and the schedule and procedure of counselling.
(4)
The Convener of EAMCET Admissions shall adopt computerised Single Window system of Counselling either by
following centralized or decentralized Online Counselling at various centres for the convenience of the Candidates and
shall prepare the seat matrix of Unaided Non-Minority Professional Institutions. He shall make all the necessary
arrangements for manpower, admission venue, drawing scrutiny officers from other departments, fee collection,
networking, facilities for Online Counselling at various centres, mobilization of software etc., in consultation with the
Admission Committee.
(5)
No Management of Unaided Non-Minority Professional Institution shall issue notification and call for applications for
Page 5/13
----- PAGE 6 -----
Andhra Pradesh Unaided Non- Minority Professional institutions (Regulation of Admissions i...
admission separately or individually except as provided in Rule 6 (i) (a) (11) and Rule 6(i) (b) (11) of these rules.
(6)
Candidates shall be called for counselling and provisional allotment of Courses / Institutions shall be made in the order
of merit assigned at EAMCET by following the Rules of Reservation issued by the Government from time to time and
G.O.Ms.No. 550, Higher Education Department dated: 30.7.2001 and such allotment is only provisional.
(7)
The selection of candidates and allotment of Courses / Institutions in respect of Unaided Non-Minority Professional
Institutions, shall be solely on the basis of merit as adjudged by the rank obtained in EAMCET subject to the condition
that the candidate should have passed the qualifying examination. However, mere appearance at the Entrance Test and
obtaining rank in the merit list does not entitle a candidate to be considered for admission automatically into any Course
/ Institution unless he / she also satisfies the rules and regulations of admission prescribed by the concerned University /
Government including marks to be obtained in the qualifying examination.
(8)
Once a candidate secures admission to a particular College / Institution based on his / her option, no more claim for
admission into other Colleges, to any other kind of seat or any other course, be entertained during that phase of
admissions.
(9)
The candidates admitted into Unaided Non-Minority Professional Institutions shall pay at the time of admission the fees
payable per student per annum as prescribed by the AFRC.
(10)
The Convener, EAMCET Admissions shall handover the vacant seats, if any to the Institutions concerned after
conducting the counselling till the last rank of EAMCET.
(11)
The institution shall fill, on merit basis, such vacant seats handed over by the Convenor of Admissions duly conducting
internal sliding reservation category wise in each course before issuing the notification for admissions by the individual
Institutions. The vacant seats so arising in each course after the exercise of internal sliding shall be filled reservation
category wise with eligible candidates through Institutional spot admission ensuring merit and transparency still vacant
seats, if any, may be filled with the candidates securing not less than 50% marks in the prescribed group subjects
[Aggregate marks]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.O.Ms. No. 66, dated 3.9.2012 (w.e.f.28.7.2011).]
in the Qualifying examination.
(12)
The Institution shall obtain ratification from the Competent Authority for all the admissions including internal sliding
conducted by the Institution.
(13)
The Convener of EAMCET Admissions shall prepare the final list of candidates, admitted course-wise and
Institution-wise and send the same to Concerned Universities, Institutions and AFRC.
(14)
The Competent Authority in consultation with the Committee of EAMCET Admission shall fix the cut off dates for each
stage of admissions.
(15)
All the candidates called for Counselling shall produce the specified original documents along with duly attested
photocopies and the Convenor of EAMCET Admissions shall be entitled to cause verification of all the documents
produced by the candidates.
(b)
Admissions Into Non-Minority Institutions Under Eamcet -ac Stream: (1) Committee for EAMCET-AC Admissions into
institutions, which opted for EAMCET- AC shall be constituted by the Association of Un-aided Professional Colleges to
advise the Convenor of EAMCET-AC Admissions in the matters relating to admission and on such other matters
necessary for the smooth conduct of Admissions.
(2)
The Convener of EAMCET -AC Admissions shall collect Rank lists of the qualified candidates of EAMCET -AC prepared
Page 6/13
----- PAGE 7 -----
Andhra Pradesh Unaided Non- Minority Professional institutions (Regulation of Admissions i...
by the Convener of EAMCET-AC as per Clause (c) of sub- rule (7) of Rule 12 of the Andhra Pradesh Common Entrance
Test for entry into Engineering, Pharmacy, Agriculture, Medical and Dental courses Rules, 2011 and EAMCET prepared
by the Convener of EAMCET as per sub rule (3) of Rule 5 of the Andhra Pradesh Common Entrance Test for entry into
Engineering, Pharmacy, Agriculture, Medical and Dental courses Rules, 2011.
(3)
The Convener of EAMCET-AC Admissions shall prepare and notify the schedule for admissions, venue, timings and all
other necessary details in at least three leading newspapers one each in Telugu, Urdu and English, at least 8-10 days
before the commencement of counselling. The decision of the Committee for EAMCET-AC Admissions shall be final in
issuing notification, schedule and procedure of counselling.
(4)
The Convener of EAMCET-AC Admissions shall adopt computerised Single Window system of Counselling either by
following centralized or decentralized Online Counselling at various centers for the convenience of the Candidates and
shall prepare the seat matrix of Unaided Non-Minority Professional Institutions. He shall make all the necessary
arrangements for manpower, admission venue, drawing scrutiny officers from other departments, fee collection,
networking, facilities for Online Counselling at various centres, mobilization of software etc., in consultation with the
Admission Committee.
(5)
No Management of Unaided Non-Minority Professional Institution shall issue notification and call for applications for
admission separately or individually except as provided in Rule 6(i) (a) (11) and Rule 6 (i) (b) (11)of these rules.
(6)
Candidates shall be called for counselling and provisional allotment of Courses / Institutions shall be made firstly in the
order of merit assigned at EAMCET-AC and, if vacant seats still remain, then in the order of merit assigned at EAMCET
by following the Rules of Reservation issued by the Government from time to time and G.O.Ms.No.550, Higher
Education Department dated: 30.7.2001 and such allotment is only provisional.
(7)
The selection of candidates and allotment of Courses / Institutions in respect of Unaided Non-Minority Professional
Institutions, shall be solely on the basis of merit as adjudged firstly by the rank obtained in EAMCET-AC and, if vacant
seats still remain, then by rank obtained in EAMCET subject to the condition that the candidate should have passed the
qualifying examination. However, mere appearance at the Entrance Test and obtaining rank in the merit list does not
entitle a candidate to be considered for admission automatically into any Course / Institution unless he / she also
satisfies the rules and regulations of admission prescribed by the concerned University/Government including marks to
be obtained in the qualifying examination.
(8)
Once a candidate secures admission to a particular College / Institution based on his / her option, no more claim for
admission into other Colleges, to any other kind of seat or any other course, be entertained during that phase of
admissions.
(9)
The candidates admitted into Unaided Non-Minority Professional Institutions shall pay at the time of admission the fees
payable per student per annum as prescribed by the AFRC.
(10)
The Convener, EAMCET-AC Admissions shall handover the vacant seats, if any to the Institutions concerned after
conducting the counselling till the last rank of EAMCET-AC and EAMCET as provided under clauses (6) and (7) above.
(11)
The Institution shall fill, on merit basis, such vacant seats handed over by the Convenor of Admissions duly conducting
internal sliding reservation category wise in each course before issuing the notification for admissions by the individual
Institutions. The vacant seats so arising in each course after the exercise of internal sliding, shall be filled reservation
category wise with eligible candidates through Institutional spot admission duly ensuring merit and transparency still
vacant seats, if any, be filled with the candidates securing not less than 50 % marks in the prescribed group subjects in
the qualifying examination.
(12)
The Institution shall obtain ratification from the Competent Authority for all the admissions including internal sliding
Page 7/13
----- PAGE 8 -----
Andhra Pradesh Unaided Non- Minority Professional institutions (Regulation of Admissions i...
conducted by the Institution.
(13)
Convener of EAMCET-AC Admissions shall prepare the final list of candidates, admitted course-wise and
Institution-wise and send the same to concerned Universities, Institutions and AFRC.
(14)
The Competent Authority in consultation with the Committee of EAMCET- AC Admission shall fix the cut off dates for
each stage of admissions.
(15)
All the candidates called for Counselling shall produce the specified original documents along with duly attested
photocopies and the Convenor of EAMCET-AC Admissions shall be entitled to cause verification of all the documents
produced by the candidates.
(ii)
[ To Fill Up Category-B Seats (30%):
[Substituted by Notification No. G.O.Ms. No. 66, dated 3.9.2012 (w.e.f. 28.7.2011).]
-
1. The Institution shall conduct Admissions to the seats available as specified below:
(i)
The Institution shall not issue notification . and receive the applications until the EAMCET admission notification is
issued by the Competent Authority. In the interests of students, the Competent Authority may suggest dates for different
milestones in the admission process.
(ii)
The institutions that are approved by All India Council for Technical Education and permitted to fill NRI seats not
exceeding 5% of the sanctioned intake in each course for the academic year shall admit NRI candidates (sons and
daughters of NRIs) who have passed the qualifying examination with not less than 50% marks in the prescribed group
subjects or 50% aggregate marks in the qualifying examination or Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) equivalent
to 5 on a scale of 10.
(iii)
The remaining seats shall be filled on merit basis with candidates including from other States and Union territories who
have secured rank at AIEEE and secured not less than 45% of marks in the prescribed group subjects in the qualifying
examination.
(iv)
The seats remaining unfilled from (ii) and (iii) above shall be filled with eligible candidates, who have qualified the
EAMCET examination on merit basis following eligibility criteria laid in Rule (4) of these rules.
(v)
Thereafter, if any seats still remain unfilled such seats may be filled on merit basis with candidates securing not less
than 45% (40% in case of candidates belonging to reserved categories) of marks in the prescribed group subjects taken
together / aggregate marks in the qualifying examinations, as prescribed.
2. The Institutions shall follow the procedure mentioned below to conduct the Admissions:
(i)
The Competent Authority shall facilitate the setting up of a web portal which will act as a "Single Window for Category 'B'
seats" for both the Colleges and the Students for filling up of the "Category B" seats.
(ii)
Each college will be provided a Unique ID and password to port its data relating to the category 'B' seats in the said
portal.
(iii)
Subsequently, all colleges will be provided with a digital signature to ensure secure access of their operations.
(iv)
The colleges shall port all the relevant data regarding the Category"B" seats, branch wise as provided in the said web
portal.
(v)
Once the data is finally entered by the managements no change shall be permitted.
Page 8/13
----- PAGE 9 -----
Andhra Pradesh Unaided Non- Minority Professional institutions (Regulation of Admissions i...
(vi)
The web portal shall provide the students, the facility for making online applications for the Category 'B' seats. A
printable/recordable electronic acknowledgement shall be provided to the student on successful uploading of his online
application. This will dispense with the need for the student to physically visit each and every college besides ushering in
transparency.
(vii)
The management of the Colleges shall notify the details of courses offered with intakes, schedule of admissions(date
wise), registration fee for the application, non-minority or non-minority status in leading news dailies one in each
language i.e., English, Telugu & Urdu & which will also be uploaded on the web portal hosted by the Competent
Authority.
(viii)
The Competent Authority will suggest a time schedule with dates for such notification to enable the students to opt for
category 'B' seats uniformly across the state. All admissions to the category 'B' seats will be completed during the
suggested time period.
(ix)
On the dates as suggested by the Competent Authority, the web portal will be opened for all students desirous of
seeking admissions to Category 'B' Seats in all Private Un-Aided Professional colleges in the State. Candidates can
apply to colleges of their choice by visiting the portal only during the suggested dates by the Competent Authority.
(x)
A candidate can select any of the college/colleges and apply online for seeking admissions to Category 'B' seats of
college/colleges after paying the requisite registration fees as notified by the college.
(xi)
The candidate can also give his order of preference for admission to a college by giving the order of preference among
the courses offered by the college in the online application form. Only one form needs to be filled for a college
regardless of the number of options.
(xii)
The candidate can apply for more than one college by visiting the respective website of colleges and apply online after
paying the registration fees specified for each college.
(xiii)
No new application will be accepted after the closing date of admissions to the college.
(xiv)
The Management of the college will solely upload the data and administer the selection process as per the admission
procedure specified. Each college will be permitted to dowmload the data of the applications received and pertaining to
it, after the closing date as suggested by the Competent Authority.
(xv)
Thereafter, the college can at its option use the online merit generation facility available on the web portal.The merit list
generated will be in order of NRI quota(if available), AIEEE rankers, EAMCET rankers & qualifying examination in order
of merit as prescribed in Rule 6 (ii) (1) of these rules.
(xvi)
The selection of candidates will be done by the college managements themselves, as per the merit of the candidates.
(xvii)
The selection list, after selection process is completed by the management of respective colleges as per the prescribed
norms will be uploaded by the managements on the web portal and be transmitted online to the Competent Authority.
(xviii)
The Competent Authority will verify the list of the selected candidates and validate the same with reference to the G.O.s
and the procedure prescribed through an online cross verification procedure based on applications received by a
college.
(xix)
The Competent Authority shall approve the validated list if found tallying by the cross validation process or reject the lists
if found to be at variance to the rules and procedures prescribed, and communicate the same to the concerned colleges
for compliance.
Page 9/13
----- PAGE 10 -----
Andhra Pradesh Unaided Non- Minority Professional institutions (Regulation of Admissions i...
(xx)
In case of unfilled seats if any, the concerned colleges will again upload for validation the second list of selected
candidates from out of the left over candidates who have applied in the portal. After generation of the merit list, the
college managements will forward the applications and approval by Competent Authority as per the schedule prescribed
by the Competent Authority.
(xxi)
Applications of candidates not fulfilling the required conditions during the online cross validation of the list by the
Competent Authority will summarily be rejected.
(xxii)
The Competent Authority shall open a helpline to assist the candidates and college managements to sort out their
grievances and provide technical support if needed.
(xxiii)
The Competent Authority will issue detailed operational guidelines for using the web portal besides prescribing a fee for
usage of the portal by the managements of colleges and applicants.
(xxiv)
The Management shall collect the Tuition fee as prescribed by the Government for category 'B' seats and any excess
fee collected will amount to capitation fee and Managements are liable for action under A.P. Educational Institutions
(Regulation of Admissions and Prohibition of Capitation fee) Act, 1983.
(xxv)
Any complaint/appeal against the selection shall be made to the Admission and Fee Regulatory Committee (AFRC).
(xxvi)
The managements shall comply with the above instructions and failure in implementing the same shall entail actions as
per the relevant Acts and Rules in force.]
7.
Rules of Reservation for admission.
- (i) Category A seats shall be reserved, to the following categories in Admissions to Professional courses:
(1)
Region-wise reservation of seats. - Admission to 85% of the seats in each course shall be reserved for the local
candidates and the remaining 15% of the seats shall be un-reserved seats as specified in the Andhra Pradesh
Educational Institutions (Regulations and Admissions) Order, 1974 as subsequently amended.
Explanation. - For purpose of these rules,-
(i)
Local Areas means:-(1) The part of the State comprising the districts of Adilabad, Hyderabad (including Twin Cities)
Ranga Reddy, Karimnagar, Khammam, Medak, Mahaboobnagar, Nalgonda, Nizamabad and Warangal shall be
regarded as the Local Area for the purpose of admission to the Osmania University, the Kakatiya University and the
Telangana University and to any other educational institutions (other than a state-wide university or state-wide
educational institution) which is subject to the control of the State Government and is situated in that part.
(2)
The part of the State Comprising the districts of Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, East Godavari, West
Godavari, Krishna, Guntur and Prakasam shall be regarded as the Local Area for the purpose of admission to the
Andhra University, the Acharya Nagarjuna University and Adikavi Nannaya University and to any other educational
institutions (other than a state-wide university or state-wide educational institution) which is subject to the control of the
State Government and is situated in that part.
(3)
The part of the State Comprising the districts of Anantapur, Kurnool, Chittoor, Cuddapah and Nellore shall be regarded
as the Local Area for the purpose of admission to the Sri Venkateswara University, the Sri Krishnadevaraya University
and the Yogi Vemana University and to any other educational institutions (other than a state-wide university or
state-wide educational institution) which is subject to the control of the State Government and is situated in that part.
(ii)
The Local Candidate means:
(A)
Page 10/13
----- PAGE 11 -----
Andhra Pradesh Unaided Non- Minority Professional institutions (Regulation of Admissions i...
A candidate for admission shall be regarded as a local candidate in relation to a local area.-
(a)
If he/she has studied in educational Institution or educational Institutions in such local area for a period of not less than
four consecutive academic years ending with the academic year in which he/she appeared or as the case may be, first
appeared in the relevant qualifying examination, or
(b)
Where, during the whole or any part of the four consecutive academic years ending with the academic year in which
he/she appeared or, as the case may be, first appeared for the relevant qualifying examination, he/she has not studied
in any educational Institutions, if he/she has resided in that local area for a period of not less than four years immediately
preceding the date of commencement of the relevant qualifying examination in which he/she appeared or, as the case
may be, first appeared.
(B)
A candidate for admission to the Course who is not regarded as local candidate under clause (A) in relation to any local
area shall,-
(a)
If he has studied in educational Institutions in the State for a period of not less than seven consecutive academic years
ending with the academic year in which he/she appeared or, as the case may be, first appeared for the relevant
qualifying examination be regarded as a local candidate in relation to,-
(i)
Such local area where he/she has studied for the maximum period out of said period of seven years, or
(ii)
Where the period of his/her study in two or more local areas are equal, such local area, where he/she has studied last in
such equal period, or
(b)
If, during the whole or any part of seven consecutive academic years ending with the academic year in which he/she
appeared or, as the case may be, first appeared for the relevant qualifying examination, he/she has not studied in the
educational Institutions in any local area, but has resided in the State during the whole of the said period of seven years,
be regarded as a local candidate in relation to,-
(i)
Such local area where he/she has resided for the maximum period out of the said period of seven years, or
(ii)
Where the periods of his/her residence in two or more local areas are equal, such local area where he/she has resided
last in such equal periods.
(C)
The following categories of candidates are eligible to apply for admission to the remaining 15% of un-reserved seats:
(a)
All the candidates eligible to be declared as local candidates.
(b)
Candidates who have resided in the State for a total period of 10 years excluding periods of study outside the State or
either of whose parents have resided in the State for a total period of ten years excluding period of employment outside
the State.
(c)
Candidates who are children of parents who are in the employment of this State or Central Government, Public Sector
Corporations, Local Bodies, Universities and other similar quasi-public Institutions, within the State.
(d)
Candidates who are spouses of those in the employment of the State or Central Government, Public Sector
Corporations, Local Bodies, Universities and Educational Institutions recognized by the Government or University OR
other competent authority and similar quasi Government Institutions within the State.
(D)
If a local candidate in respect of a local area is not available to fill any seat reserved or allocated in favour of a local
candidate in respect of that local area, such seat shall be filled if it had not been reserved.
Page 11/13
----- PAGE 12 -----
Andhra Pradesh Unaided Non- Minority Professional institutions (Regulation of Admissions i...
Note. - For details, see the Andhra Pradesh Educational Institutions (Regulations of Admission) Order, 1974 as
subsequently amended.
(2)
Reservation for SC/ST/BC Communities:
(a)
15% of seats in each course in each institution shall be reserved for the candidates belonging to Scheduled Castes .
(b)
6% of seats in each course in each Institution shall be reserved for the candidates belonging to the scheduled Tribes.
The seats reserved for scheduled Tribes shall be made available to scheduled Castes and Vice-versa, if qualified
candidates are not available in the category.
If qualified candidate belonging to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes communities are not available the left over
seats reserved for them shall be treated as unreserved seats and shall be filled by the candidates of General pool.
(c)
29% of seats in each course in each institution shall be reserved for the candidates belonging to the Backward classes
and shall be allocated among the four groups of Backward classes as shown below:
Group 'A'
-
7%
Group 'B'
-
10%
Group 'C'
-
1%
Group 'D'
-
7%
Group 'E'
-
4%
If qualified candidates belonging to Backward class of a particular group are not available, the leftover seats can be
adjusted for the candidates of next group. If qualified candidates belonging to Backward classes are not available to fill
up the 29% seats reserved for them, the left over seats shall be treated as unreserved and shall be filled up with
candidates of General pool.
No candidate seeking reservation for admission under the above categories be allowed to participate, in the Counseling
for admission unless he produces the Integrated Community Certificate prescribed by the Govt., and issued by the
Revenue Authorities in the Government (vide G.O. Ms. No: 58, Social Welfare (J), Dept., Dated: 12-5-1997).
(3)
The following reservations in admissions to Professional courses may be provided in respect of Category- A seats in
accordance with consensus arrived at between Private Unaided Professional Institutions and the Government:
(1)
Reservation of seats for women: - A reservation of 33 1/3% of seats in favour of women candidates in each course and
in each category (OC / SC/ST/BC/PH/CAP/NCC/SP). The above reservation shall not be applicable if women
candidates selected on merit in each category exceeds 33 1/3%. If sufficient number of women candidates are not
available in the respective categories those seats shall be diverted to the men candidates of the same category.
(2)
Reservation for Special Categories:
(a)
There shall be horizontal reservation in each category (OC, BC, SC, ST) in each course of an institution, for the
following categories, to the extent indicated against them.
(i)
Page 12/13
----- PAGE 13 -----
Andhra Pradesh Unaided Non- Minority Professional institutions (Regulation of Admissions i...
Physically Handicapped (PH) - 3% (three percent) for Visually handicapped / hearing impaired / Orthopaedically
Handicapped (each 1%) (one percent).
(ii)
Children of Armed Forces Personnel (CAP) - 2% (two percent) for the children of armed persons i.e. Ex-Servicemen,
Defence Personnel including the Children of Border Security Force and the Central Reserve Police Force residing in
Andhra Pradesh for a minimum period of 5 years.
(iii)
National Cadet Corps (NCC) - 1% (one percent) for National Cadet corps candidates.
(iv)
Sports and Games (SP) - ½ % (half percent) for sports and Games candidates.
If qualified candidates belonging to NCC / SP / CAP categories are not available, the left over seats shall be filled up
with candidates of General Pool of the same local area.
Note. - The candidates claiming reservation benefits under the above categories shall produce original documents in
support of their claim to the Convenor or Admissions and he shall be entitled to refer the original documents of the
candidates claiming reservation for scrutiny and confirmation, to the following authorities.
(i) NCC
- To the Director of NCC, Andhra Pradesh
(ii) Sports & Games
- To the Vice-Chairman and Managing Director,
Sports Authority of Andhra Pradesh (SAAP)
(iii) Physically handicapped
- To the Director, Medical & Health
Services, AP
(iv) CAP
- To the Director, Sainik Welfare Board, A.P.
(b)
The priorities in respect of the special categories mentioned above shall be in accordance with Government Orders
issued from time to time.
8.
Penalty for violation of rules.
- In case of violation of Admission rules laid herein by any private institution thereby resulting in making irregular
admissions such institutions shall be liable for penalty or cancellation of affiliation of the University concerned or for
referring the matter to apex bodies like All India Council of Technical Education / Pharmacy Council of India / Council of
Architecture disqualifying the college from making admission in future.
9.
FEE for Engineering (including Technology) /Pharmacy Colleges.
- (i) "The fee payable per student per annum for each discipline in each institution shall be as prescribed by the AFRC .
(ii)
The fee prescribed and collected from NRIs, in excess of the fees prescribed for non-NRI candidates under Category B
shall be utilized for benefiting the students from economically weaker sections of the society whose eligibility criteria
shall be as notified by the Government. The mechanism for extending such benefit to the students belonging to
economically weaker sections shall be as prescribed by the Admission and Fee Regulatory Committee.
(iii)
The Government may notify specific Fee Waiver Scheme(s) with the approval of Admission and Fee Regulatory
Committee for benefiting the disadvantaged sections of society.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 13/13