
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh Gram Panchayat (Erection of Telecommunication Towers) Rules’ 2012
Andhra Pradesh Gram Panchayat (Erection of Telecommunication
Towers) Rules’ 2012
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/162126180/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh Gram Panchayat (Erection of Telecommunication Towers) Rules’ 2012
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh Gram Panchayat (Erection of Telecommunication Towers) Rules’ 2012
Rule ANDHRA-PRADESH-GRAM-PANCHAYAT-ERECTION-OF-TELECOMMUNICATION-TOWERS-RULES-2012 of
2012
Published on 9 October 2012
Commenced on 9 October 2012
[This is the version of this document from 9 October 2012.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Andhra Pradesh Gram Panchayat (Erection of Telecommunication Towers) Rules’ 2012
Published vide Notification No. G.O. Ms. No. 334, Panchayat Raj and Rural Devloplepment (Parts IV), dated 09.10.2012
Last Updated 4th September, 2019
No. G.O. Ms. No. 334. - In exercise of the powers conferred under sub-section (1) of section 268 read with Section 119
of the Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act’ 1994 (Andhra Pradesh Act No.13 of 1994), the Government of the Andhra
Pradesh hereby makes the following rules.
1.
Short title.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh Gram Panchayat (Erection of Telecommunication Towers) Rules’ 2012
(1)
These rules may be called the Andhra Pradesh Gram Panchayat (Erection of Telecommunication Towers) Rules’ 2012.
(2)
These rules shall come into force with immediate effect. However, the Ground based telecom structure already erected
in the Gram Panchayats which are not covered under these rules are leviable for payment of Rs.10,000/- as one time
fee to regularize them as per these rules.
2.
Mandatory to obtain preliminary approval / permission etc.
- The applicants (service providers) shall obtain necessary preliminary approval from the Executive Authority of Gram
Panchayat concerned before erecting telecommunication towers and related structures and the structural stability
certificate from the respective technical authority before granting final permission and license for usage who intent to
erect the telecommunication towers in the respective Gram Panchayats subject to fulfilling the other conditions on the
following;
(i)
The applicant shall obtain approval of Air Traffic Controller, Airport Authority of India for exempting of roof top antenna
from height restriction, in case such exemption is required.
(ii)
The Applicant shall take special precaution for fire safety and lightening etc.,
(iii)
The Applicant shall furnish a legally valid undertaking that they are solely responsible for any damage to the building and
for public safety.
(iv)
The Applicant shall furnish NOC from the surrounding building owners, and from the concerned building owners in case
rooftop installations.
3.
Norms for issuing license.
(a)
The Inter- Ministerial Committee on EMF radiation in its report has recommended that mobile towers should not be
installed near high density residential areas, schools, play grounds and hospitals. Accordingly, the Executive Authority of
Gram Panchayat shall impose restrictions on installation of mobile towers near high density residential areas, schools,
playgrounds and hospitals as far as possible.
(b)
Every application filed by any Telecom company shall be scrutinised by the Executive Authority of Gram Panchayat in
two (2) stages. In the first stage the Executive Authority of Gram Panchayat shall issue a preliminary license called
“Temporary permit” to those telecom companies whose applications fulfilled the locational (site) norms. No public road
shall be used for erection of telecom structures. However, other public sites (other than public roads) including the Gram
Panchayat properties shall not be used for erection of Telecom structures without taking the site by the company on
lease. The terms and conditions of lease shall be as per G.O.Ms.No.215 PR&RD (Pts-III)Dept., dated 25.06.2001.
(c)
In every case, where the locational norms as prescribed in these rules and the Act are met by the Telecom Company,
the Executive Authority shall issue a temporary permit to erect the towers and related structures.
(d)
The Gram Panchayat may collect a fee of Rs.1000/- along with the application and grant a temporary permit to erect the
towers and related structures to all eligible applicants who fulfilled the site norms prescribed above.
(e)
In the second stage, on completion of the erection/installation work, the applicant should obtain and furnish a structural
stability certificate to the Gram Panchayat, issued by a qualified Structural Engineer having license with the sanctioning
authority of the respective Gram Panchayat and obtain a license to operationalize the structures. Gram Panchayat may
levy installation and license renewal fee as per the following:-
Sl.No
Category
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Andhra Pradesh Gram Panchayat (Erection of Telecommunication Towers) Rules’ 2012
Fee to be levied by Gram Panchayats
1
2
Cell tower
installation fee (One time)
(a) Ground based
towers
(b) Roof top towers
License renewal fee (Annual) for Land based /
Roof top towers
Rs.15,000/-
Rs.12,000/-
Rs.1,000/-
(f)
Apart from the installation and license fee levied by the Gram Panchayat the applicant will pay lease rent to the owner of
land/building on which the structure will be put at a negotiated rate.
(g)
Every application for renewal of license must be supported by an updated structural stability certificate issued by a
qualified Structural Engineer having license with the sanctioning authority of the respective Gram Panchayat.
(h)
In case the Executive Authority of Gram Panchayat fails to convey its decision with in 30 days or rejected the application
on certain grounds, the aggrieved party (Telecom Company) may prefer the first appeal before Gram Panchayat
Committee, who decide the appeal based on the locational norms prescribed in these rules with in 30 days of filing
appeal. Further appeal on the decision of Gram Panchayat Committee shall lie to the Commissioner or his/her nominee
within 30 days on which the authority shall pass orders within 30 days of receipt of such appeal. Final appeal on the
orders of Commissioner or his/her nominee shall lie before the Government in the form of a Revision Petition under
Section 264 of the Andhra Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act’ 1994.
4.
Insurance / Compensation.
- The applicant company should submit an undertaking to the Gram Panchayat to Provide safety and security nets by
paying either Insurance premium or compensation at the rates prescribed by Government from time to time to deal with
the damages caused to human and animal life [cases of causalities, injuries, etc.,) and damages to properties etc.,
5.
Regulation of any matter.
- The Government shall be the final authority in regard to regulation of any matter arising out of these rules.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3