
----- PAGE 1 -----
A.P. Private Dental Un-aided Minority Professional Institutions (Admission into Post Gradu...
A.P. Private Dental Un-aided Minority Professional Institutions
(Admission into Post Graduate Dental Courses) Rules, 2017
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/116609864/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
A.P. Private Dental Un-aided Minority Professional Institutions (Admission into Post Graduate Dental Courses) Rules,
2017
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
A.P. Private Dental Un-aided Minority Professional Institutions (Admission into Post Graduate Dental Courses) Rules,
2017
Rule
A-P-PRIVATE-DENTAL-UN-AIDED-MINORITY-PROFESSIONAL-INSTITUTIONS-ADMISSION-INTO-POST-GRADUAT
E-DENTAL-COURSES-RULES-2017 of 2017
Published on 3 May 2017
Commenced on 3 May 2017
[This is the version of this document from 3 May 2017.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
A.P. Private Dental Un-aided Minority Professional Institutions (Admission into Post Graduate Dental Courses) Rules,
2017
Published vide Notification No. (G.O. Ms. No.71, Health, Medical & Family Welfare (C1) Department, dated 3rd May,
2017 and Published in the A.P. Gazette (Extra ordinary), dated May 8, 2017)
No. (G.O. Ms. No.71, Health, Medical & Family Welfare (C1) Department, dated 3rd May, 2017 and Published in the
Page 1/5
----- PAGE 2 -----
A.P. Private Dental Un-aided Minority Professional Institutions (Admission into Post Gradu...
A.P. Gazette (Extra ordinary), dated May 8, 2017). - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sections 3 and 15 of the
Andhra Pradesh Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admission and Prohibition of Capitation Fee) Act, 1983 (A.P. Act
No.5 of 1983) and in supersession of the orders issued in G.Os. 1 and 2 read above, the Governor of Andhra Pradesh
hereby makes the following Rules for Admission into the Post Graduate Professional Courses in Dental Courses i.e.,
PG-MDS Degree and Diploma Courses in Un-aided Minority Professional Institutions in the State:
1.
Short title, applicability and commencement.
- (i) These Rules may be called the A.P. Private Dental Un-aided Minority Professional Institutions (Admission into Post
Graduate Dental Courses) Rules, 2017
(ii)
They shall apply to all Un-aided Minority Professional Institutions imparting Post Graduate Courses Professional
Education in Dental Courses for which admissions shall be made to in such manner as prescribed herein.
(iii)
These Rules shall come into force from the academic year 2017-18.
2.
Definitions.
(1)
In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires;
(i)
"Act" means the Andhra Pradesh Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admission and Prohibition of Capitation Fee)
Act, 1983 (A.P. Act No.5 of 1983)
(ii)
"Competent Authority" means the Vice-Chancellor, Dr. NTR University of Health Sciences, Andhra Pradesh,
Vijayawada.
(iii)
"Committee for Admissions" means the Committee nominated by the Competent Authority to select and make allotment
of candidates to Competent Authority Seats in Professional Institutions offering P.G. Dental Courses in the State for
Admissions in accordance with the rules laid down.
(iv)
"Common Entrance Test" means, National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET-MDS) which will be the basis for
admission of the candidates into the Post Graduate Courses concerned in various Un-aided Minority Professional
Institutions in the State.
(v)
"Competent Authority Seats" means the seats earmarked from out of the sanctioned intake of seats in each course and
in each college to be filled by the Committee for Admissions.
(vi)
"Management Seats" means the seats earmarked from out of the sanctioned intake of seats in each course to be filled
in such manner as may be prescribed by the Government or by the Committee of Admissions constituted by the
Government.
(vii)
"Inspecting Authority" means the Authority appointed by the Competent Authority for inspecting and scrutinizing the
Admissions of the candidates made in the Unaided Minority Professional Institutions.
(viii)
"Institutions" means, unless otherwise specifically mentioned, all the Unaided Minority Professional Institutions imparting
Professional Education in Dental Courses.
(ix)
"Qualified Candidate" in respect of seats to be filled by the 'Competent Authority' means the candidate who has
appeared for the NEET-MDS for Post Graduate Course admission and has been assigned ranking in the Common Merit
List.
(x)
"Qualifying examination" means the examination of the minimum qualification prescribed which entitles one to seek
Page 2/5
----- PAGE 3 -----
A.P. Private Dental Un-aided Minority Professional Institutions (Admission into Post Gradu...
admission into the relevant Professional Post Graduate Course.
(xi)
"Minority Candidate" means the applicant belonging to the concerned minority religion same as the status of the
institution.
Words and expressions used but not defined in these rules shall have the same meaning as assigned to them in the
Andhra Pradesh Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admission and Prohibition of Capitation Fee) Act, 1983 (Act No.
5 of 1983) unless otherwise defined by the Government in Health, Medical and Family Welfare Department or by the
competent authority.
Seat Sharing and Admissions:
(i)
Tine Un-aided Minority Professional Institutions, imparting studies in Post Graduate Education in Medical and Dental
Sciences Courses in their respective Institutions, would make available 50% of intake of their seats course wise out of
the total intake available, in each Minority Institution, to the Government's PG Admission Cell for counselling and
allocation of seats to the concerned minority candidates; based on merit; as per ranking to be determined/assigned by
the competent authority based on National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET-MDS), and as per Rules framed for the
purpose.
(ii)
The seat matrix regarding the Convener and Management quota seats in each speciality' in each Minority Dental
College shall be prepared by the University every year before counselling and any additional seats permitted by the DCI
and the University will be included in the counselling process.
(iii)
If there is only one seat available in the speciality, the seat will go to Management quota for the year 2017-18 and
Convener quota in the year 2018-19. The allotment will be alternated in the subsequent years.
(iv)
Similarly, if there are 3 seats, one seat for Convener quota and one seat for Management quota will be allotted and the
3rd seat will go to Management quota in the year 2017-18 and Convener quota in the year 2018-19. The allotment of
third seat will be alternated in the subsequent years.
(v)
If in a speciality one seat in degree and one seat in Diploma are available, the degree seat will be for Management and
Diploma seat will be for Convener quota and it will be vice-versa in the next year between the Management and
Convener quota following the this year's sequence.
(vi)
The unfilled.seats after final phase of counselling for competent authority seats shall be surrendered to Management of
respective colleges. If a candidate allotted a seat after final counselling of the Convener quota fails to join the course in a
private college, that seat can be filled by the Management of respective institutions with eligible candidates.
(vii)
The 50% of the sanctioned intake of the seats (Management quota) of the Minority Institutions shall be filled by
Admission/Counselling Committee under the categories listed hereunder with the eligible candidates on the basis of
inter se merit among the applicants qualified in NEET-MDS.
a. Management Quota- Subcategory 1: 25% of the sanctioned intake of seats, course wise, in each of the institutions
shall be filled by the candidates in General Merit based on the NEET ranking through counselling conducted by
Admission/Counselling Committee.
b. Management Quota-Sub-category 2: 15% seats out of total intake capacity, course wise, in each institutions shall be
filled by foreign students/NRI/NRI sponsored candidates on the basis of inter se merit among the applicants qualified in
NEET, through counselling conducted by Admission/ Counselling Committee.
c. Management Quota-Sub-category 3: 10% seats out of total intake capacity, course wise, in each of the institutions
shall be Institutional preference/In-service management quota seats filled on the basis of inter se merit among the
applicants qualified in NEET, through counselling conducted by Admission/Counselling Committee.
(viii)
On non-availability of candidates in any of the categories in vii(a), (b) or (c), they can be filled by the Management of
respective minority institutions from any other eligible candidates as prescribed by the Medical Council of India/Dental
Page 3/5
----- PAGE 4 -----
A.P. Private Dental Un-aided Minority Professional Institutions (Admission into Post Gradu...
Council of India and the fee shall be on par with these category of students admitted under vii-c).
(ix)
The Minority Institutions shall admit Minority Candidates in atleast 70% of the total seats in order to retain the status of a
Minority College.
(x)
In view of the institutions being Minority Institutions, the State Government exempt the Minority Institutions from the
provision of reservation for either SCs, STs or other backward classes separately in admissions except for the
concerned minority candidates.
Procedure for Grant of Admissions into PG (Dental) Courses under the Management Quota Seats:
1. The State Government shall constitute a committee consisting of three members i.e\one from the Government, one
from University of Health Sciences and the other from representatives of Minority institutions for the purpose of
Counselling/Admission to Minority7 Dental Colleges. The member representative of Minority college(s) shall be the
Convener of the Counselling/Admission Committee. The entire procedure shall be done under overall supervision of Dr.
NTR UHS, Vijayawada.
2. The Convenor, Admission/Counselling Committee shall issue notification in two National Newspapers, calling for
application from NEET-MDS qualified candidates for admission to Management quota (Sub-category 1, 2 & 3) in PG
Dental Courses mentioning the details in the website. The admission process and number of seats under Management
quota shall be displayed in the website.
3.
He shall invite Online or Offline Applications in the form prescribed by it, from the NEET-MDS eligible candidates for
participating in Centralized Admission Process (CAP) for seeking admission to the courses to Management quota
(Sub-category 1 and (Sub-category 2 & 3) separately.
4.
He shall prepare a merit list from the eligible candidates who have applied to the Management Quota seats, online or
offline, in the prescribed form for admission to Post Graduate Dental Courses on the basis of the marks at percentile in
the NEET-MDS Examination.
5.
The Convener, Admission/Counselling Committee shall notify the Venue, Date and Time of Counselling for each
category of Management Quota Seats.
6.
On the Day of Counselling the eligible candidates shall attend the Counselling in person with all the Original Certificates
and the fee prescribed. The candidates will be called in the order of Merit for Counselling to Opt the Subject and College
of his/her choice.
7.
Counselling will be held separately for Management Quota-Sub-category 1 and Management Quota - Sub-category 2 &
3.
8.
The selected candidate will be issued Provisional Selection Intimation with a direction to report to the concerned
Principal within the date specified.
9.
If a candidate opts a seat and fails to pay the fee at respective institution, the seat will be treated as vacant and will be
filled in the 2nd Counselling.
10.
If a selected candidate fails to report to the Principal within the stipulated time, the Selection and Admission of the
candidate will be cancelled automatically and the seat will be filled in the 2nd Counselling.
11.
The Certificates of the Candidates will be sent to the respective colleges after closure of admissions to Management
quota seats.
12.
The Convener, Admission/Counselling Committee shall notify the Venue, Date and Time of 2nd Counselling to fill-up the
vacant seats if any, after 1st counselling.
Page 4/5
----- PAGE 5 -----
A.P. Private Dental Un-aided Minority Professional Institutions (Admission into Post Gradu...
13.
The Admissions into Management Quota seats will be closed at the end of 2nd Counselling and the candidates who
were admitted will be considered as the Bona side Candidates of the respective colleges. The Fee paid by the
candidates and the Original Certificates will be sent to the respective colleges.
14.
The College Fee shall be paid in the form of crossed demand draft in favour of the authority notified in the notification.
15.
The Candidates shall pay prescribed Non-Re fund able Application Fee, Counselling Fee and University Fee.
16.
The Candidates are bound by the Regulations to be made by the Association with regard to Admission, Cancellation
and Withdrawal from the Course.
17.
Grievance Redressal Committee shall be constituted composed of a Principal of a Dental College, one eminent person
in public service and one member nominated by the University. Any grievance as to the determination of their merit and
entitlement for admissions, cancellation of seats, refund of fees, return of documents, etc., the students or the colleges
concerned must approach the Grievance Redressal Committee headed by a Principal of a Dental College and the
decision of Grievance Redressal Committee shall be binding on both the Parties.
18.
All the Minority institutions shall display their fee structure in the college notice board and College Website.
19.
The college shall pay stipend to the PG students as per the DCI/A.P. State Regulations.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 5/5