
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (Entrustment of Additional Functions with respect...
Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (Entrustment of
Additional Functions with respect to the Services of Universities) Act,
2017
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/90599972/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (Entrustment of Additional Functions with respect to the Services of
Universities) Act, 2017
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (Entrustment of Additional Functions with respect to the Services of
Universities) Act, 2017
Act 3 of 2018
Published on 28 December 2017
Commenced on 28 December 2017
[This is the version of this document from 28 December 2017.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (Entrustment of Additional Functions with respect to the Services of
Universities) Act, 2017
(Act
No. 3 of 2018
)
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (Entrustment of Additional Functions with respect...
The following Act of the Andhra Pradesh Legislature received the assent of the Governor on the 28th December, 2017
and the said assent is hereby first published on the 2nd January, 2018 in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette for general
information :
An Act to provide for the exercise of Certain Additional Functions by the Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission
with respect to the Services of the Universities.
Be it enacted by the Legislature of State of Andhra Pradesh in the Sixty-eighth Year of the Republic of India as follows :
Chapter I
1.
Short title, extent and commencement.
(1)
This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (Entrustment of Additional Functions with
respect to the Services of Universities) Act, 2017.
(2)
It extends the whole State of Andhra Pradesh.
(3)
It shall come into force on such date as the State Government may, by notification, appoint.
Chapter II
2. Definitions.
- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires :-
(1)
"Administrative and Ministerial Staff" means the non-teaching staff of the University other than Teachers of the
University as defined in the respective Acts of the Universities specified in the Schedule;
(2)
"APPSC" means the Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission constituted under Article 315 of the Constitution of
India;
(3)
Executive Council/Board of Management/Executive Board means the Executive Council/Board of
Management/Executive Board as defined in the Acts of Universities specified in the Schedule;
(4)
"Government" means the Government of Andhra Pradesh;
(5)
"Teachers of the University" means Teachers of the University as specified in the schedule;
(6)
"Written Test" includes descriptive type examination and/or object type examination and/or computer based examination
and/or interview/oral test/personality test.
Chapter III
3. Entrustment of additional functions to APPSC.
- Notwithstanding anything contained in the Acts of Universities specified in the Schedule and the Statutes, Ordinances,
Regulations and rules made thereunder, the Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission shall conduct the Written Test,
in addition to the minimum norms prescribed in the Acts of the respective Universities, for recruitment of Teachers and
Administrative/Ministerial Staff of the University on the decision of the Executive Council/Board of
Management/Executive Board of the University concerned by entering into a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with
the University concerned :
Provided that where same category of posts in the same subject are requisitioned for recruitment by different
Universities, a common written test shall be conducted for all such posts.
Chapter IV
4. Power to remove difficulties.
- If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the Government may, by order, make such provision
not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act as may appear to them necessary or expedient for removing the difficulty.
The Schedule
(i)
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (Entrustment of Additional Functions with respect...
Andhra University (AU), Sri Venkateswara University (SVU), Sri Krishnadevaraya University (SKU), Acharya Nagarjuna
University (ANU), Adikavi Nannayya University (AKNU), Yogi Vemana University (YVU), Dr. B.R. Ambedkar University
(Dr. BRAU), Krishna University (KrU), Vikrama Simhapuri University (VSU), Rayalaseema University (RU) established
under Section 3 of the Andhra Pradesh Universities Act, 1991.
(ii)
Damodaram Sanjivayya National Law University established under Section 3 of the Damodaram Sanjivayya National
Law University Act, 2008.
(iii)
Dr. NTR University of Health Sciences established under Section 3 of the Dr. NTR University of Health Sciences Act,
1986.
(iv)
Dr. YSR Horticultural University established under Section 3 of the Dr. YSR Horticultural University Act, 2007.
(v)
Dravidian University established under Section 3 of the Dravidian University Act, 1997.
(vi)
Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University at Ananthapuramu and Kakinada established under Section 3 of the
Jawaharlal Nehru Technological Universities Act, 2008.
(vii)
Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge Technologies at Idupulapaya and Nuzvidu established under Section 3 of the
Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge Technologies Act, 2008.
(viii)
Sri Padmavathi Mahila Viswavidyalayam established under Section 3 of Sri Padmavathi Mahila Viswavidyalayam Act,
1983.
(ix)
Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences established under Section 3 of Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical
Sciences Act, 1995.
(x)
Sri Venkateswara Veterinary University established under Section 3 of Sri Venkateswara Veterinary University Act,
2005.
(xi)
Acharya N.G. Ranga Agricultural University established under Section 3 of the Acharya N.G. Ranga Agricultural
University Act, 1963.
(xii)
Moulvi Abdul Haq Urdu University established under Section 3 of the Moulvi Abdul Haq Urdu University Act, 2016.
(xiii)
Sri Venkateswara Vedic University established under Section 3 of Sri Venkateswara Vedic University Act, 2006.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3