
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh Housing Board Act, 1956
Andhra Pradesh Housing Board Act, 1956
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/63069831/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
34
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh Housing Board Act, 1956
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh Housing Board Act, 1956
Act 66 of 1956
Published on 1 November 2018
Commenced on 1 November 2018
[This is the version of this document from 1 November 2018.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Andhra Pradesh Housing Board Act, 1956
(Act No 66 of 1956)
Last Updated 6th June, 2020
[Dated 29.9.1956.]
An Act to provide for measures to be taken to deal with and satisfy the need of housing accommodation.
[Preamble. - Whereas, the Directive Principles of State Policy command the State to promote the welfare of the people
and providing housing is essential for promoting the welfare of the people;
And Whereas, there is a serious need for housing accommodation in the State for several sections of the society;
And Whereas, the Andhra Pradesh Housing Board was established under the Act as an agent and an extended arm to
the State by discharging the duty of the State for providing housing to the various classes of the people including poor,
low income and the middle income groups, in particular, people belonging to the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes,
Page 1/27
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh Housing Board Act, 1956
Backward Classes and Minority Communities;
And Whereas, various governmental powers and privileges have been conferred on the Andhra Pradesh Housing Board
for discharging the said duties;
And Whereas, such Board would hold all the land on behalf of the State and enter into various actions/transactions on
behalf of the State for the purpose of providing housing to the needy and developments of housing infrastructure;
And Whereas, all the powers and functions exercised by the Andhra Pradesh Housing Board are deemed to have been
exercised by the State of Andhra Pradesh and property and income of the Andhra Pradesh Housing Board shall always
be deemed to be that of the State falling under Article 289(1) of the Constitution of India;
Accordingly, the Board is vested with the various powers and privileges of the State to discharge the responsibility of the
State for providing housing accommodation.]
[Substituted by Act No.33 of 2018, dated 01.11.2018.]
Chapter - I Preliminary
1.
Short title extent and commencement.
(1)
This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh Housing Board Act, 1956.
(2)
It extends to the whole of the State of Andhra Pradesh.
(3)
It shall come into force on such date and in such areas as the State Government may, by notification in the Andhra
Pradesh gazette, appoint and different dates may appointed for different areas.
2.
Definitions.
- In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context :-
(1)
"Board" means the Housing Board constituted under Section 3;
(2)
"Board premises" means any premises belonging to or vesting in the Board or taken on lease by the Board or entrusted
to the Board under this Act for management and use for the purposes of this Act;
(3)
"Building materials" means such commodities or articles as are specified to be building materials for the purpose of this
Act by the Government by notification in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette;
(4)
"Bye-laws" means bye-laws made under Section 72;
(5)
"Chairman" means the Chairman of the Board.
(6)
"Competent Authority" means any person authorised by the Government by notification in the Andhra Pradesh gazette
to perform the function of the competent authority under Chapter VI for such areas as may be specified in the
Notification;
(7)
"Corporation" means a Municipal Corporation constituted under the Hyderabad Municipal Corporations Act, 1955 (11 of
1956) for the cities of Hyderabad and Secunderabad;
(7-A) "Government" means the State Government.
(8)
"Housing scheme" means a housing scheme made under this Act;
(9)
"Land" includes benefits arising out of land and things attached to the earth or permanently fastened to any thing
attached to the earth;
(10)
"Local authority" includes Municipal Corporation Municipal and Town Committees, District Municipalities, Zilla
Page 2/27
----- PAGE 3 -----
Andhra Pradesh Housing Board Act, 1956
Parsishads, Panchayat Samithis and Village Panchayats;
(11)
"Member" means a member of the Board.
(12)
"Premises" means any land or building or part of a building and includes:
(i)
gardens, grounds and outhouses, if any, appertaining to such building or part of a building, and
(ii)
any things affixed to such building or part of a building for the more beneficial enjoyment thereof;
(13)
"Prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this Act;
(14)
"Programme" means the annual housing programme prepared by the Board under section 24;
(15)
"Regulations" means regulations made under Section 71;
(16)
"Rules" means rules made under Section 70;
(17)
"Secretary" means the Secretary of the Board;
(18)
"Tribunal" means any Tribunal constituted under Section 47; and
(19)
"year" means the year commencing on the 1st day of April and ending on the 31st March.
Chapter - II Establishment of the Board
3.
Incorporation.
(1)
With effect from such date as the Government may by notification in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette appoint may by
notification in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette appoint in this behalf, there shall be established for the purposes of this Act,
a Board by the name of the Hyderabad Housing Board.
(2)
The Board shall be a body corporate having perpetual succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in its
corporate name and shall be competent to acquire and hold property both moveable and immoveable and to contract
and do all things necessary for the purposes of this Act.
(3)
[ For the removal of doubts, it is clarified that the Board is and always be deemed to be an agent and extended arm of
the State and shall act and deemed at all times to have acted on behalf of the State while discharging its functions under
this Act.
(4)
Notwithstanding any other provision in the Act or any other law, for the time being in force, the Board shall hold and be
deemed to have held all movable and immovable property and all funds on behalf of the State and all income thereon
shall belong to the State and shall always be deemed to have belonged to the State.
(5)
For the purpose of Sections 13, 14 and 15 or any other provision relating to contracts under the Act, the Board shall
enter into and all along be deemed to have entered into contracts as an agent of the State and all such acts and
contracts shall be deemed to have been entered into on behalf of the State.]
[Inserted by Act No.33 of 2018, dated 01.11.2018.]
(6)
[]
[Renumbered by Act No.33 of 2018, dated 01.11.2018.]
For the purposes of this Act, the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (Central Act.I of 1894), and the Andhra Pradesh Buildings
Page 3/27
----- PAGE 4 -----
Andhra Pradesh Housing Board Act, 1956
(Lease, Rent and Eviction) Control Act, 1960, (Andhra Pradesh Act XV of 1960), the Board shall be deemed to be a
local authority;
Explanation. - The purposes of this Act referred to in [sub-section (6)]
[Substituted 'sub-section (3)' by Act No.33 of 2018, dated 01.11.2018.]
includes the management and use of the lands and buildings belonging to or vesting in the board under or for the
purposes of this Act and the exercise of its rights over and with respect of such lands and buildings for the purposes of
this Act.
4.
Constitution of the Board.
- [(1) The Board shall consist of the following members, namely :
(a)
The Chairman to be appointed by the Government;
(b)
The Secretary/Principal Secretary/Special Chief Secretary to Government, Municipal Administration and Urban
Development Department;
(c)
The Vice-Chairman and Housing Commissioner, Ex-Officio;
(d)
The Managing Director, Andhra Pradesh State Housing Corporation Limited;
(e)
The Managing Director, Andhra Pradesh Township and Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited;
(f)
The Commissioner, Capital Region Development Authority;
(g)
The Mission Director, Mission for Elimination of Poverty in Municipal Areas;
(h)
The Additional Secretary/Joint Secretary/Deputy Secretary, Municipal Administration and Urban Development
Department;
(i)
An Officer of the Finance Department to be nominated by the Government;
(j)
The Chief Engineer, Andhra Pradesh Housing Board, Ex-Officio;
(k)
The Chief Engineer/Engineer-in-Chief (Public Health), Ex-Officio;
(l)
The Chief Engineer/Engineer-in-Chief (Buildings), Ex-Officio;
(m)
The Director of Town & Country Planning, Ex-Officio;
(n)
The Commissioner and Director of Municipal Administration, Ex-Officio;
(o)
The Additional Secretary/Joint Secretary/Special Secretary, Energy Department;
(p)
The Commissioner, Municipal Corporation of Vijayawada, Ex-Officio;
(q)
The Vice-Chairman of the Visakhapatnam Urban Development Authority;
(r)
The Regional Chief/Executive Director, Housing and Urban Development Corporation;
(s)
Two Members to be nominated by the Government each to represent the Coastal Andhra and Rayalaseema Regions of
the State;
Page 4/27
----- PAGE 5 -----
Andhra Pradesh Housing Board Act, 1956
(t)
Any other Member(s) appointed by the Government.]
(2)
Any member of the Board may at any time resign his Office by submitting his resignation to the Government.
(2-A) [(a) Notwithstanding anything in the principal Act, with effect on and from the commencement of this Act, all the
members of the Board including its Chairman and Vice-Chairman and Housing Commissioner who are holding offices at
such commencement shall cease to hold their officers as such and the Government may appoint a person to manage
the affairs of the Board until the Board is reconstituted in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (1) of Section 4
of the Principal Act, as amended by this Act.
(b)
The person appointed under clause (a) shall, until the Board is reconstituted, exercise the powers and perform the
functions of the Board and of its Chairman.]
Explanation. - Any provision relating to a member contained in sub-section (2) of this section, sub-sections (1) (2) of
section 7 and Sections 8 & 9 shall, except where the context otherwise requires be deemed to apply also to the
Chairman. ( section 4 is further amended by Act No.4 of 1984).
4A.
[
[Omitted as per A.P. Housing Board (Amendment) Act No. 4 of 1984.]
***]
[Substituted as per Amending Act No.6 of 1983.]
5.
Leave, absence of Chairman.
- The Government may from time to time grant to the Chairman such leave as may be admissible under the rules and
any person whom the Government appoints to act for the Chairman during such absence on leave shall, while so acting
be deemed for all purposes of this Act to be the Chairman.
6.
Disqualification for appointment on Board.
(1)
A person shall be disqualified for being appointed or continuing as the Chairman or member of the Board, if he;
(a)
holds any Office or place of profit under the Board;
(b)
is of unsound mind and stands so declared by a competent court;
(c)
is an undischarged insolvent;
(d)
subject to the provisions of sub-section (2) has directly or indirectly by himself or his partner or if he belongs to join
Hindu family by any member of such family any share or interest in any contract (except as a share holder other than a
Director in a company) or employment with by or on behalf of the Board.
(2)
A person shall not be deemed to have incurred disqualification under clause (d) of sub-section (1) by reasons only of his
:-
(a)
receiving pension from the Board;
(b)
having any share or interest in-
(i)
any lease, sale, exchange or purchase of land or any agreement for the same;
(ii)
any agreement for the loan of money or any secure for the payment of money only.
(iii)
Page 5/27
----- PAGE 6 -----
Andhra Pradesh Housing Board Act, 1956
Any newspaper in which any advertisement relating to the affairs of the Board is inserted.
(iv)
Any joint stock board or any society registered or deemed to be registered under the Andhra Pradesh (Andhra area)
Co-operative Societies Act, 1932 (Act VI of 1932) or under the Hyderabad Co-operative Societies Act, 1952 (XVI of
1952) which shall contract with or be employed by the Chairman or any Officer on behalf of the Board;
(v)
The occasional sale to the Chairman or any Officer on behalf of the Board of any article in which the regularly trades, of
a value not exceeding in the aggregate in any financial year one thousand rupees; Clause (v) is inserted as per Act No.4
of 1984.
(vi)
The occasional letting out on hire to the Board or hiring from the Board of any article for an amount not exceeding in the
aggregate in any one financial year five hundred rupees.
(3)
Occupying as a tenant for the purpose of residence any premises belonging to the Board;
7.
Term of office and conditions of service.
(1)
Save as otherwise provided, the term of every member including the Chairman shall be such as may be prescribed.
(2)
Every member shall receive such allowance as may be prescribed which shall be paid from the fund of Board.
(3)
The Chairman may hold office in an honorary capacity or on payment of remuneration. If any remuneration is to be paid
to the Chairman, such remuneration and other conditions of service shall be such as may be prescribed. The
remuneration shall be paid from the fund of the Board.
8.
Vacancy of a member.
- If a member.
(a)
becomes subject to any of the disqualifications mentioned in Section 6, or
(b)
tenders his registration in writing to the Government; or
(c)
is absent without the permission of the Board from three successive ordinary meetings of the Board, he shall cease to
be a member.
9.
Vacancy to be filled.
- Any vacancy in the Office of a member due to death, resignation or removal or becoming in capable of acting as such
shall be filled by the Government, by appointment of a person thereto, who shall hold Office so long only as the member
in whose place he is appointed would have held it if the vacancy had not occurred.
10.
Vacancy of irregularities not to invalidate the proceedings.
(1)
No act of the Board or any person acting as Chairman or member there of shall be deemed to be invalid by reason only
of some defect in the appointment of such Board or appointment of such Chairman or member, or on the ground that
they or any of them were disqualified for such Office or that formal notice of the intention to hold a meeting of the Board
was not duly given or for any informality.
(2)
Any thing done or any proceeding taken under this Act shall not be questioned on account of any vacancy in the Board.
11.
Appointment of Committees.
-  Subject to such rules as may be made in this behalf the Board may, from time to time, and for any particular local area
Page 6/27
----- PAGE 7 -----
Andhra Pradesh Housing Board Act, 1956
appoint one or more committees for the purpose of discharging such duties or performing such functions as it may
delegate to them and any such committee may discharge such duties or perform such functions with due regard to the
circumstances and requirements of that particular area.
12.
Meetings of the Board.
- The Board shall meet from time to time make such arrangements with respect to the day, time notice management and
adjournment of its meetings as it thinks fit subject to the following provisions, namely:-
(a)
an ordinary meeting shall be held once atleast every month;
(b)
The Chairman may whenever he thinks fit, call for special meetings;
(c)
The quorum for a meeting shall be half the whole number of the members;
(d)
Every meeting shall be presided over by the Chairman and in his absence, by any member chosen by the members
present at the meeting to preside for the occasion;
(e)
If less than one-half of the whole number of members is present at a meeting, the Chairman shall adjourn the meeting to
such time on the following day or some other future day as he may fix. A notice of the meeting so fixed shall be posted
in the Board's Office. The business which could not be considered at the meeting so postponed for want of quorum shall
be brought before and disposed of at the meeting so fixed or at any subsequent adjourned meeting irrespective of
whether there be any quorum or not;
(f)
All questions at any meeting shall be decided by a majority of votes of the members present and voting and in case of
equality of votes the person presiding shall have and exercise a second or casting vote.
(g)
The minutes of the proceedings of each meeting shall be recorded in a book to be provided for the purpose.
13.
Power to make contract.
- The Board may enter in to and perform or require the performance of all such contracts as it may consider necessary
or expedient for carrying out any of the purpose of this Act.
13A.
[ Appointment of Vice-Chairman and Housing Commissioner.
[Inserted by Act No. 4 of 1984, dated 20.3.1984.]
(1)
The Government may appoint a Vice-Chairman and Housing Commissioner to the Board, who shall be the Chief
Executive Officer of the Board and he shall be responsible for implementing the resolutions of the Board or any
committee thereof. The Vice- Chairman shall also exercise such powers and perform such functions as may be
entrusted to him by the Government. The staff borne on the establishment of the Board shall be under the administrative
control and supervision of the Vice-Chairman and Housing Commissioner.
(2)
The Government shall pay in the first instance out of the Consolidated Fund of the State, the salary, allowances, leave
allowances, pension and contributions, if any, towards the provident fund or provident-cum-pension fund of the
Vice-Chairman and Housing Commissioner appointed by them for the Board, and it shall be subsequently reimbursed
from the fund of the Board, in such manner as may be prescribed.
(3)
The Government shall have power to make rules to regulate the classification and methods of recruitment, conditions of
service, pay and allowance and discipline and conduct of the Vice-Chairman and Housing Commissioner.]
[Substituted by Act No.33 of 2018, dated 01.11.2018.]
14.
Execution of contract.
Page 7/27
----- PAGE 8 -----
Andhra Pradesh Housing Board Act, 1956
(1)
Every Contract shall be made on behalf of the Board by the Vice-Chairman and Housing Commissioner.
Provided that :-
(a)
No contract involving an expenditure of rupees fifteen lakhs and more shall be made without the previous sanction of the
Government.
(b)
(i)
No contract involving an expenditure of rupees three thousand and more shall, subject to clause (a), be made without
the previous sanction of the Board.
(ii)
No estimate or tender involving an expenditure of rupees three thousand and more shall subject to clause (a), be
sanctioned or accepted without the previous sanction of the Board.
(2)
Sub-Section (1) shall apply to every variation abandonment of a contract or estimate as well as to an original contract or
estimate.
15.
Further Provision as to execution of contracts.
(1)
Every contract made by the Vice-Chairman and Housing Commissioner on behalf of the Board, shall subject to the
provision of this section, be entered in to in such manner and form as may be prescribed.
(2)
A contract not executed as provided in this section and the rules made thereunder shall not be binding on the Board.
16.
Application of Services Rules and Certain other rules.
- Unless otherwise provided in this Act or prescribed thereunder the provisions of the Service Rules for the time being in
force in the State relating to salaries, leave, pensions, traveling allowance, retirements and all conditions of service and
the rules for the time being in force relating to the conduct of Government servants and enquiries in to the conduct and
punishment of Government servants, shall apply to the Officers and servants of the Board appointed under Section 17.
17.
Appointment of Officers & Servants.
(1)
Subject to the provisions of this Act the Board may have a Secretary, one or more Assistant Housing Commissioners
and such other engineers, architects, Officers and servants as it shall deem necessary and proper for the efficient
execution of its duties and shall from time to time prepare, for the sanction of Government, a schedule of the staff to be
so maintained setting forth their designations, grades, salaries, fees and allowances, and their respective duties and
may also determine which of the staff is to be maintained permanently and which temporarily;
Provided that the Board shall set forth the designations and determine the grades, salaries, fees and allowances and
inconformity with the arrangements prevailing and the schedule of rates in vogue in the establishment of the
Government;
Provided further that the power of appointing such Officers and servants whose minimum monthly salary exclusive of
allowances exceeds rupees two hundred and fifty shall vest in the Government;
(2)
Notwithstanding anything in sub-section (1), the Government may transfer any Officer or servant of the Board taken over
by it from the Hyderabad City improvement Board or the Secunderabad Town, Improvement Trust under Section 19 or
from any Department of the Government, to the service of the Government and transfer any Officer of the Government
to the service of the Board.
(3)
The Board shall have the power to create with the previous approval of the Government, such posts of Officers and
servants whose minimum monthly salary exclusive of allowances not exceed rupees two hundred and fifty, as it may
consider necessary for carrying out the purpose of this Act.
Page 8/27
----- PAGE 9 -----
Andhra Pradesh Housing Board Act, 1956
18.
Condition of service of Officers and servants Delegation.
- The remuneration and other condition of service of the Secretary, and other Officers and servants of the Board shall be
such as may be prescribed.
18A.
Subject to any rule that may be made in this behalf the Board may be order delegate any of its powers to the
Vice-Chairman and Housing Commissioner or to any other Officer of the Board. The exercise of any powers delegated
under this section shall be subject to such restrictions, limitations and conditions and to such control by the Board as
may be specified in the order.
19.
Absorption of the existing staff of the Hyderabad City Improvement Board and the Secunderabad Town Improvement
Trust by the Board.
- The Board shall take over and employ such of the existing staff serving for the purposes of the Hyderabad City
Improvement Board and the Secunderabad Town Improvement Trust as the Government may direct, and every person
so absorbed shall be governed by the provisions of this Act and the rules and regulations made thereunder.
20.
General disqualification of all Officers and Servants.
- No person who has directly or indirectly by himself or his partner or agent any share or interest in any contract by or on
behalf of the Board or in any employment under by or on behalf of the Board otherwise than as an Officer or servant
thereof, shall become or remain an Officer or servant of the Board.
Chapter - III Housing Schemes
21.
Duty of Board to undertake Housing Schemes.
- Subject to the provisions of this Act and subject to the control of the Government, the Board may incur expenditure and
undertake works for the framing and execution of such housing schemes as it may consider necessary from time to
time, or as may be entrusted to it by the Government.
22.
Matters to be provided for by housing schemes.
- Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, a Housing Scheme may provide for all
or any of the following matters, namely:
(a)
the acquisition by purchase, exchange or otherwise of any property necessary for or effected by the execution of the
scheme;
(b)
the laying or relaying out of any land comprised in the scheme;
(c)
the distribution or redistribution of sites belonging to owners of property comprised in the scheme;
(cc)
the improvement and clearance of slums in the area included in the scheme.
(d)
the closure or demolition of dwellings or portions of dwelling unfit for human habitation;
(e)
the demolition of obstructive buildings or portions of buildings;
(f)
the construction and reconstruction of buildings their maintenance and preservation;
(g)
the sale (including on hire purchase system), letting or exchange of any property comprised in the scheme;
(h)
the construction and alteration of streets and back lanes;
(i)
provision of the draining, water supply and lighting of the area included in the scheme;
Page 9/27
----- PAGE 10 -----
Andhra Pradesh Housing Board Act, 1956
(j)
the provision of parks, play-fields and open space for the benefit of any area comprised in the scheme or any adjoining
area and the enlargement of existing parks, play-fields, open spaces and approaches;
(k)
the provision of sanitary arrangements required for the area comprised in the scheme, including the conservation and
prevention of any injury or contamination to rivers or other sources and means of water supply;
(l)
the provision of accommodation for any class of in habitants;
(m)
the advance of money for the purposes of the scheme;
(n)
the provision of facilities for communication and transport;
(o)
the collection of such information and statistics as may be necessary for the purposes of this Act;
(p)
any other matter for which, in the opinion of the Government, it is expedient to make provision with a view to provide
housing accommodation and to the improvement or development of any area comprised in the scheme or any adjoining
area or for the general efficiency of the scheme.
22A.
Declaration of intention to make Housing Scheme.
- The Board may, from time to time, by notification in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette declare its intention to make a
Housing Scheme for any are setting forth the extent of land proposed to be included in the scheme and such other
particulars as may be prescribed.
23.
No housing scheme to be made for area included in improvement scheme or be inconsistent with town planning
scheme.
(1)
Unless the Government by general or special order otherwise direct;
(a)
be made for any area for which an improvement scheme, under any law for the time being in force regulating the duties
and powers of a Municipal Corporation, Municipal or Town Committee, a District Municipality, a Zilla Parishad, a
Panchayat Samithi or village Panchayat has been sanctioned.
(b)
Contain any thing which is inconsistent with any matter included in a town planning scheme sanctioned by the
Government under any Law for the time being inforce.
(2)
should a dispute arise, whether or not a Housing Scheme: -
(a)
includes any area for which an improvement scheme mentioned in clause (a) of sub-section (1) has been sanctioned;
(b)
contains anything inconsistent with any matter included in a town planning scheme mentioned in clause (b) of
sub-section (1); the dispute shall be referred to Government whose decision shall be final.
24.
Preparation and submission of annual housing programme, budget and establishment schedule.
(a)
Before the first day of December in each year the Board shall prepare and forward:-
(i)
a programme,
(ii)
a budget for the nest year.
(iii)
Page 10/27
----- PAGE 11 -----
Andhra Pradesh Housing Board Act, 1956
a schedule of the staff of Officers and servants already employed and to be employed during the next year, to the
Government in such form as may be prescribed.
(2)
The programme shall contain:
(a)
Such particulars of housing schemes as may be prescribed and which the Board proposes to execute whether in part of
whole during the next year;
(b)
The particulars of any undertaking which the Board proposed to organize or execute during the next year for the
purpose of the production of building materials; and
(c)
Such other particulars as may be prescribed.
(3)
The budget shall contain a statement showing the estimated receipts and expenditure on capital and revenue acc units
for the next year.
25.
Programme to be published for inviting suggestion and objections.
- The Board shall, before forwarding the programme to the Government under Section 24 publish a draft of the
programme in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette and in such other manner as may be prescribed.
(2)
If within three weeks from the date of such application any person communicates in writing to the Board any suggestion
or objection relating to such programme the Board shall consider such suggestion or objection and may modify such
programme as it thinks fit.
(3)
The Board shall then forward the programme, the Budget and schedule of the staff of Officers and servants to the
Government for sanction as required under Section 24.
26.
Sanction to Programme, budget and Establishment Schedule.
- The Government may sanction the programme the Budget and schedule of the staff of Officers and servants forwarded
to it with such modifications as it deems fit. The programme, the budget and the schedule so sanctioned shall be laid
before the Legislative Assembly as soon as may be after the programme is published.
27.
Publication of sanctioned programme.
- The Government shall publish the programme sanctioned by it under Section 26, in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette.
28.
Supplementary programme, budget and establishment schedule.
- The Board may, at any time, during the year, in respect of which a programme has been sanctioned under Section 26
submit a supplementary programme and budget and the additional schedule of the staff, if any, to the Government and
the provisions of Section 26 shall apply to such supplementary programme, budget and schedule. The provisions of
Section 27 shall also apply to such programme.
29.
Variation of programme by Board after it is sanctioned.
- The Board may, at any time, vary programme or any part thereof included in the programme sanctioned by the
Government.
30.
Sanctioned Housing Schemes to be executed.
- After the programme has been sanctioned and published by the Government under Sections 26 and 27, the Board
shall, subject to the provisions of Section 29 proceed to execute the housing schemes included in the programme.
31.
Publication of housing scheme in Andhra Pradesh Gazette.
(1)
Page 11/27
----- PAGE 12 -----
Andhra Pradesh Housing Board Act, 1956
Before proceeding to execute any housing scheme under Section 30 the Board shall, by notification in the Andhra
Pradesh Gazette, publish the scheme. The notification shall specify that the plan, showing the area which it is proposed
to include in the housing scheme and the surrounding lands, shall be open to inspection of the public at all reasonable
hours at the Office of the Board.
(2)
If within two weeks from the date of the publication of the Housing Scheme any person communicates in writing to the
Board any suggestion or objection relating to the scheme, the Board shall consider such suggestion or objection and
may modify the scheme as it thinks fit.
(3)
The Board shall then by notification in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette publish the final scheme. The notification shall
specify that the plan, showing the area included in the final scheme and the surrounding lands and other particulars as
may be prescribed shall be open to inspection of the public at all reasonable hours at the Office of the Board.
(4)
The publication of a notification in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette under sub-section
(3)
shall be conclusive evidence that the said scheme has been duly framed.
32.
Transfer to the Board for purposes of housing scheme of land vested in local authority.
(1)
Whenever any street, square or other land, or any part thereof which is situated within the Jurisdiction of a local authority
and is vested in the said local authority, is within the area included in the programme sanctioned by the Government and
is required for the purpose of such housing scheme, the Board shall give notice accordingly to the local authority in
which it vests.
(2)
Where the said local authority concurs, such street, square or other land or part thereof shall vest in the Board.
(3)
Where there is any dispute the matter shall be referred to the Government. The Government shall, after hearing the
local authority concerned, decide the matter and the decision of the Government shall be final. If the Government
decides that such street, square or land, shall vest in the Board, it shall vest accordingly.
(4)
Nothing in this section shall effect the rights or powers of the local authority in or over any drain or water works in such
street, square or land.
33.
Compensation in respect of land vested in the Board.
(1)
Where any land vests in the Board under the provisions or Section 32 and the Board makes declaration that such land
shall be retained by the Board only until it revests in the local authority as part of a street or an open space under
Section 26 no compensation shall be payable by the Board to the local authority in respect of that land.
(2)
Where any land vests in the Board under Section 32 and no declaration is made under sub-section (1) in respect of the
land, the Board shall pay to the local authority as compensation a sum equal to the value of such land.
(3)
If, in any case where the Board has made a declaration in respect of any land under sub-section (1), the Board retains
or disposes of the land contrary to the terms of the declaration so that the land does not revest in the local authority the
Board shall pay to the local authority compensation in respect of such land in accordance with the provisions of
sub-section (2).
34.
Power of Board to turn or close public street vested in it.
(1)
The Board may turn, divert, discontinue the public use of, or permanently close, any public street vested in it or any part
thereof.
Page 12/27
----- PAGE 13 -----
Andhra Pradesh Housing Board Act, 1956
(2)
Whenever the Board discontinues the public use of, a permanently closes any public street vested in it or any part
thereof, it shall, as far as practicable, provide some other reasonable means of access to be substituted in lieu of the
use, by those entitled, or the street or part thereof and pay reasonable compensation to every person who is entitled,
otherwise than as a mere member of the public, to use such street or part as means of access and has suffered damage
from such discontinuance or closing.
(3)
In determining the compensation payable to any person under sub-section (2) the Board shall make allowance for any
benefit accruing to him from the construction, provision or improvement of any other public street at or about the same
time that the public street part thereof on account which the compensation is paid, is discontinued or closed.
(4)
When any public street vested in the Board is permanently closed under sub-section (1), the Board may sell or lessee so
much of the same as is no longer required.
35.
Reference to tribunal in case of dispute under Section 33 or 34.
- If there is any dispute as to whether any compensation is payable under Section 33 or as to the amount of
compensation payable under Section 33 or Section 34, as the case may be, the matter shall be referred to the Tribunal.
36.
Vesting in local authority of street laid out or altered and open space provided by the Board under housing scheme.
(1)
Whenever the Government is satisfied: -
(a)
that any street laid out or altered by the Board has been duly leveled, paved, metaled, Flagged, channeled, sewered and
drained in the manner provided in the programme sanctioned by the Government under Section 26; and
(b)
that such lamps, lamp-posts and other apparatus as the local authority considers necessary for the lighting of such
street and as out to be provided by the Board have been so provided; and
(c)
that water and other sanitary conveniences have been duly provided in such street; the Government may declare the
street to be a public street and the street shall thereupon vest in the concerned local authority and shall thenceforth be
maintained, kept in repair, lighted and cleaned by the said local authority;
(2)
When any open space for purposes of ventilation or recreation has been provided by the Board in executing any
housing scheme, it shall on completion be transferred to the local authority concerned, by resolution of the Board, and
shall thereupon vest in, and be maintain at the expense of, the local authority.
Provided that the local authority may require the Board before any such open space is so transferred to enclose, level,
turf, drain and layout such space and provide foot-paths therein, and if necessary, to provide lamps and other apparatus
for lighting it.
(3)
If any difference of opinion arising between the Board and the local authority in respect of any matter referred to in the
foregoing provisions of this section, the matter shall be referred to the Government whose decision shall be final.
37.
Other duties of the Board.
- It shall be the duty of the Board to take measure with a view to expediting and cheapening construction of Buildings
and the Board may for that purpose do all things for.
(a)
Unification, simplification and standardization of building materials;
(b)
Encouraging prefabrication and mass production of house components;
(c)
Organizing or undertaking the production of building materials required for the housing schemes;
Page 13/27
----- PAGE 14 -----
Andhra Pradesh Housing Board Act, 1956
(d)
Encouraging research for discovering cheap building materials and evolving new methods of economic construction;
(e)
Securing a study and sufficient supply of workmen trained in the work of construction of buildings.
38.
Reconstitution of plots.
- A housing scheme may provide: -
(a)
for the formation of a reconstituted plot by the alteration of the boundaries of an original plot;
(b)
with the consent of the owner that two or more original plots each of which is held in ownership in severally or in joining
ownership shall, with or without alteration of boundaries be held in ownership in common as a reconstituted plot;
(c)
for the allotment of a plot to any owner dispossessed of a land in furtherance of the housing scheme; and
(d)
for the transfer of ownership of a plot from the person to another.
39.
Power to exempt schemes from provisions of Section 24 to 31.
- The Government may, by general or special order published in the Andhra Pradesh gazette exempt any housing
scheme entrusted by it to the Board from all or any of the provisions of Sections 24 to 31 (both inclusive) subject to such
conditions if any, as it may impose or may direct that any such provision shall apply to such scheme with such
modifications as may be specified in the order.
Chapter - IV Acquisition and Disposal of Land
40.
Power to purchase or lease by agreement.
(1)
The Board may enter into an agreement with any person for the acquisition from him by purchase, lease or exchange, of
any land which is needed for the purposes of a housing scheme or any interest in such land or for compensating the
owners of any such right in respect of any deprivation thereof or interference therewith.
(2)
The Board may also take steps for the compulsory acquisition of any land or any interest therein required for the
execution of a housing scheme in the manner provided in the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (Central Act 1 of 1894), as
modified by this Act and the acquisition of any land or any interest therein for the purposes of this Act shall be deemed
to be acquisition for public purpose within the meaning of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (Central Act 1 of 1894).
40A.
Modification of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894.
- For the purpose of acquiring land for the Board under the land Acquisition Act, 1894 (Central Act 1 of 1894), the said
Act shall be subject to the following modifications, namely:-
(a)
the publication of a draft notification under Section 22-A shall be substituted for and have the same effect as publication
in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette and in the locality of a notification under sub-section (2) of Section 4 of the said Act,
except when notification under sub-section (1) of Section 4 of a declaration under Section 6 of the said Act has been
previously made and is in force;
(b)
Section 7 of the said Act as in force in the State of Andhra Pradesh shall have effect as if, after sub-clause (iii) of clause
(b) of sub-section (2) of that section, the following had been added, namely:- (iv) for the execution of any Housing
Scheme under the APHB Act, 1956.
40B.
Payment of compensation.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything in the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (Central Act 1 of 1894), the amount payable as
Page 14/27
----- PAGE 15 -----
Andhra Pradesh Housing Board Act, 1956
compensation in respect of land acquired under this Act shall be an amount equal to twenty times the net average
annual income actually derived from such land during the period of five consecutive years immediately proceeding the
date of notification under Section 22 -A.
(2)
The net average annual income referred to in sub-section (1) shall be calculated in the manner and in accordance with
the principles set out in the succeeding sub-sections.
(3)
The net average annual income shall be one-fifth of the gross rent actually derived by the owner from the land acquired
and buildings if any, thereon, during the period of five consecutive years after deducting municipal taxes, revenue
charges and cost of repairs for the said period of five years from such gross rent.
(4)
The gross rent shall be determined by the Land Acquisition Officer by local enquiry, and, if necessary, by obtaining
certified copies of extracts from the property tax assessment books of the local authority concerned showing the rental
values of such lands or buildings.
(5)
Where there are trees on the land acquired, the Land Acquisition Officer shall take in to account the income, if any,
actually derived by the owner from such trees during the said period of five years.
(6)
If the land or buildings thereon remained unoccupied, or the owner has not been in receipt of any rent for the occupation
of such land or buildings during the whole or any part of the said period of five years, the gross rent shall be taken to be
the income which the owner would in fact have derived if the land or buildings had been leased out or given for rent
during the relevant period, and, for this purpose, the income actually derived from similar lands or buildings in the vicinity
shall be taken into account.
Explanation. - In this section, 'building' includes a house, out-house, shed, hut and any other such structure, whether of
masonry, bricks, wood, mud, metal or any other material whatsoever.
40C.
Power of Government to transfer Government land to the Board.
- The Government may, either suo moto or on the request of the Board and after consulting the Collector of the district,
by order transfer any land belonging to them to the control of the Board, for the purpose of providing housing
accommodation. Every such order shall be published in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette and shall be subject to such terms,
conditions and restrictions as may be specified in such order any rules made in this behalf.
(2)
The Collector of the district shall, on a request being made by the Board, furnish to the Board the particulars of all
un-occupied lands belonging to the Government in any area specified by the Board.
41.
Betterment charges.
(1)
When by the making of a housing scheme and land in the area comprised in the scheme will in the opinion of the Board
be increased in value, the Board in framing the scheme may declare that betterment charges shall be payable by the
owner of the land or any person having an interest therein in respect of the increase in value of the land from the
execution of the scheme.
(2)
Such increase in value shall be the amount by which the value of the land on the completion of the execution of the
scheme estimated as if the land were clear of the buildings exceeds the value of the land prior to the execution of the
scheme estimated in like manner and the betterment charges shall not exceed one-half of such increase in value.
(3)
Such betterment charges shall also be leviable in respect of any land not comprised in the scheme but adjacent to the
area comprised in the scheme.
42.
Notice to persons liable for betterment charges.
(1)
Page 15/27
----- PAGE 16 -----
Andhra Pradesh Housing Board Act, 1956
The Board shall give notice in the prescribed form to any person who is the owner of or has interest in the land in
respect of which the betterment charges are to be levied and shall give such person an opportunity to be heard.
(2)
After hearing such person or if such fails to appear after the expiry of the period within which such person is required to
appear before the Board, the Board shall proceed to assess the amount of betterment charges.
(3)
Where the assessment of betterment charges proposed by the Board is accepted by the person concerned with in the
period specified, the assessment shall be final.
(4)
If the person concerned does not accept the assessment proposed by the Board, the matter shall be referred to the
Tribunal.
(5)
The Tribunal shall, after holdings an inquiry and after hearing the person concerned, assess the amount of the
betterment charges payable by the person.
Provided that the amount of the betterment charges assessed by the Board shall not be questioned in the Tribunal
merely on the ground that the increase in the value of the land from the execution of the scheme as determined by the
Board was in part due to reason unconnected with the scheme.
43.
Agreement for payment of betterment charge.
(1)
Any person liable to pay betterment charges in respect of any land may at his option, instead of paying the said charges
in lump-sum to the Board, execute an agreement with the Board to pay the same in such number of instalments as may
be determined by the Board at such interest as may be prescribed.
(2)
Every payment due from any person in respect of betterment charges and every charge referred to in sub-section (1)
shall, notwithstanding anything contained in any other enactment and notwithstanding the execution of any mortgage or
charge, created either before or after the commencement of this Act, be the first charge upon the interest of such person
in such land.
44.
Recovery of betterment charges.
- All sums payable in respect of any land by any person in respect of betterment charges under Section 41 or by any
person under an agreement under Section 53 shall be recoverable on behalf of the Board as an arrear of land revenue.
45.
Power to dispose of land.
- Subject to any rules made by the Government under this Act., the Board may retain, sell, exchange, mortgage or
otherwise dispose of, any land, building or other property vesting in it and situated in the area comprised in any housing
scheme sanctioned under this Act.
46.
Dispute regarding Re-constitution of Plots.
(1)
Where by the making of a housing scheme, any plots comprised in the area included in the scheme are reconstituted or
any person is dispossessed, any person affected by such reconstitution or dispossession may apply to the Board for
compensation. The Board may after making such inquiry as it thinks fit decide whether the applicant is entitled to any
compensation and if so to what extent. If the person is dissatisfied with the decision of the Board in the matter, he may
inform the Board accordingly. The Board shall thereupon refer the matter to the Tribunal.
(2)
The tribunal shall then after making an inquiry determine the amount of compensation and direct the Board to pay the
same to the person entitled.
Chapter - V Tribunal
47.
Constitution of the Tribunal.
Page 16/27
----- PAGE 17 -----
Andhra Pradesh Housing Board Act, 1956
- The Tribunal shall consist of a single member who shall be a judicial Officer of the status of District Judge.
48.
Duties of Tribunal.
- The Tribunal shall -
(a)
Decide whether any compensation is payable under Section 33 ;
(b)
Decide the amount of compensation in the matters referred to it under Section 35;
(c)
Decide disputes relating to betterment charges referred to it under Section 42;
(d)
Decide disputes relating to the reconstitution of plots referred to it under Section 46 and the amount of compensation to
be awarded in consequence thereof;
(e)
Decide such other matters as may be prescribed.
49.
Powers of President.
-  (Omitted).
50.
Powers of and procedure before Tribunal.
(1)
In making inquiries under Section 33, 35, 42 and 46 of the Act, the Tribunal shall have and exercise the same powers as
are vested in a Civil Court in respect of -
(a)
Proof of facts by affidavits;
(b)
Summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person and examining him on oath;
(c)
Compelling the production of documents; and
(d)
Issuing commissions for the examination of witnesses;
(2)
In all proceedings before the Tribunal the Tribunal shall follow such procedure as may be prescribed;
(3)
Every order made by the Tribunal for the payment of money except that for the recovery of which provision has been
made in Section 44 and for the delivery of the possession or removal of any structure shall be enforced by the City Civil
Court, Hyderabad in the cities of Hyderabad and Secunderabad and elsewhere by the District Court in the jurisdiction of
which the land comprised in the housing scheme is situated as if it was the decree of the said Court.
(4)
The preceding before the Tribunal shall be deemed to be judicial proceedings within the meaning of Section 193 and
228 of the Indian Penal Code.
51.
Decision of Tribunal to be final.
- The decision of the Tribunal on any matter referred to it under this Act shall be final and shall not be questioned in any
court of law.
Chapter - VI Power to evict persons from Board premises
52.
Power to evict certain persons from Board premises.
(1)
If the Competent Authority is satisfied -
(a)
Page 17/27
----- PAGE 18 -----
Andhra Pradesh Housing Board Act, 1956
that the person authorised to occupy any Board premises has whether before or after the commencement of this Act.
(i)
not paid rent lawfully due from him in respect of such premises for a period of more than two months; or
(ii)
sublet, without the permission of the Board, the whole or any part of such premises; or
(iii)
otherwise acted in contravention of the terms, express or implied, under which he is authorised to occupy such
premises; or
(b)
that any person is in authorised occupation of any Board premises, the competent authority may, notwithstanding
anything contained in any law for the time being in force, by notice served (i) by post, or  (ii) by affixing a copy of it on the
outer door or some other conspicuous part of such premises or (iii) in such other manner as may be prescribed, order
that such person, as well as
(2)
If any person refuses or fails to comply with an order made under sub-section (1), the Competent Authority may after
giving such person a reasonable opportunity of being heard confirm such orders and evict that person from, and take
possession of the premises and may for that purpose use such force as may be necessary.
(2A)
Where the Board premises are required by the Board for its use, the competent authority may, notwithstanding anything
in any other law for the time being in force in this regard, by notice served in the manner laid down in sub-section (1)
order that every person who is in occupation of the said premises shall vacate the said premises and shall deliver
possession thereof to the Board, with in the time specified in the notice. If any person refuses or fails to comply with any
such order of the competent authority, the person in occupation of the premises shall be deemed to be in unauthorized
occupation an opportunity of making his representation confirm the said order and evict him from, and take possession
of, the premises and may for that purpose use such force as may be necessary.
(3)
If a person, who has been ordered to vacate any premises under sub-clause (i) or (iii) of sub-clause (a) of sub-section
(1), within one month of the date of service of the notice or such longer time as the competent authority may allow, pays
to the Board the rent in arrears or carries out of otherwise complies with the terms contravened by him to the satisfaction
of the competent authority as the case may be, the competent authority, shall, in lieu of evicting such person under
sub-section (2) cancel its order made under sub-section (1) and thereupon such person shall hold the premises on the
same terms on which he held them immediately before such notice was served on him.
53.
Power to recover rent or damages.
(1)
Subject to any rules made by the Government in this behalf and without prejudice to the provisions of Section 52 where
any person is an arrears of rent payable in respect of any Board premises, the competent authority may, by notice
served (i) by post, or (ii) by affixing a copy of it on the outer door or some other conspicuous part of such premises, or
(iii) in such other manner as may be prescribed , order that person to pay the same together with such other amounts as
may be due by him under the contract agreement lease, indemnity bond, damages or otherwise, within such time not
less than thirty days as may be specified in the notice.
(2)
Where any person is in unauthorized occupation of any Board premises the competent authority, may, in the prescribed
manner, assess such damages on account of the use and occupation of the premises as it may deem fit, and may by
notice served (i) by post, or (ii) by affixing a copy of it on the outer door or some other conspicuous part of such
premises (iii) in such other manner as may be prescribed, order that person to pay the damages within such time as
may be specified in the notice.
(3)
If any person refuses or fails to pay the amount specified in sub-section (1) or (2), as the case may be, within the time
specified in the notice, the competent authority may, after giving such person a reasonable opportunity of being heard,
recover the amount due by him on account of arrears of rent together with such other amount as may be due by him
Page 18/27
----- PAGE 19 -----
Andhra Pradesh Housing Board Act, 1956
under the contract agreement, lease, indemnity bond, damages or otherwise, by attachment and sale of the movable
property of such person in the manner prescribed. Without prejudice to the aforesaid mode of recovery, such amount
shall also be recoverable as if it were arrears of land revenue.
54.
Rent to be recovered by deduction from salary or wages in certain cases.
- Without prejudice to the provisions of Section 52 or 53 any person who is an employee of the Government or a local
authority or is a worker within the meaning of the Factories Act, 1948 (LXIII of 1948) or the Mines Act 1952 (XXXV of
1952) and who has been allotted any Board premises may execute an agreement in favour of the Board providing that
the Government or the local authority or the own4er of factory or mine as the case may be, under or by whom he is
employed, shall be competent to deduct from the salary or wages payable to him such amount as may be specified in
the agreement and to pay the amount so deducted to the Board in satisfaction of the rent due by him in respect of the
Board premises allotted to him.
(2)
On the execution of such agreement, the Government or local authority or the owner of factory or mine, as the case may
be, shall, if so required by the Board by requisition in writing, make the deduction of the amount specified in the
requisition from the salary or wages of the employee specified in the requisition from the salary or wages of the
employee specified in the requisition in accordance with the agreement and pay the amount so deducted to the Board.
55.
Appeal.
(1)
Any person aggrieved by an order of the competent authority under subsection (2) of Section 52 or Section 53 may,
within one month from the date of the confirmation of the order under Section 52, or the date of the service of the notice
under Section 53, as the case may be prefer an appeal to the appellate authority.
Provided that the appellate authority may entertain the appeal after the expiry of the said period of one month if it is
satisfied that the appellant was prevented by sufficient cause from filing the appeal in time.
(2)
On receipt of an appeal under sub-section (1), the appellate authority, may after calling for a report from the competent
authority and giving the aggrieved person a reasonable opportunity of being heard, pass such order as it thinks fit and
such order of the appellate authority shall be final.
(3)
Where an appeal is preferred under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2-A) of Section 52, the appellate authority may stay
the enforcement of the order of the competent authority for such period and on such conditions as it thinks fit.
(4)
[ For the purpose of this Chapter, the Appellate Authority shall be the District Judge within whose jurisdiction such
premises are situated.]
[Substituted by Act No. 33 of 2018, dated 01.11.2018.]
56.
Procedure and powers of competent authority and appellate authority.
(1)
The competent authority and appellate authority shall follow such procedure as may be prescribed, and subject thereto,
the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (V of 1908), shall so far as they are not inconsistent with this Act or
the rules or orders made thereunder, apply to all proceedings before the competent authority and the appellate authority.
(2)
In proceedings under this Chapter, the competent authority shall have the same power as are vested in a Civil Court
when trying a suit, and the appellate authority shall have the same power as are vested in a Civil Court when hearing an
appeal, under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (V of 1908).
(3)
The competent authority and appellate authority shall be deemed to be a Civil Court for a purpose of Section 480 and
482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (V of 1898) and any proceeding before the competent authority and the
appellate authority shall be deemed to be a judicial proceeding within the meaning of Sections 193 and 228 of the Indian
Penal Code, 1860 (XLV of 1860).
Page 19/27
----- PAGE 20 -----
Andhra Pradesh Housing Board Act, 1956
57.
Bar of Jurisdiction of Civil Courts.
- Save as provided in Section 55, no order made by the competent authority or the appellate authority, in exercise of any
power conferred by or under this Chapter shall be called in question in any Court and no injunction shall be granted by
any Court or other authority in respect of any action taken or to be taken in pursuance of any power conferred by or
under this Chapter.
Chapter - VII Finance Accounts and Audit
58.
Board's Fund.
(1)
The Board shall have its own fund. [The fund shall be vested and deemed to have always vested in the State. The fund
shall be operated by the Board based on or according to the directions given by the State from time to time. All receipts
into the said Fund and all payments from the said Fund shall be received and made, and be so deemed to have been
received and made by the Board on behalf of the State]
[Added by Act No.33 of 2018, dated 01.11.2018.]
;
(2)
The Board may accept grants, subventions, donations and gifts from [any Government]
[Substituted 'the Central Government or State Government' by Act No.33 of 2018, dated 01.11.2018.]
or a local authority or any individual or body, whether incorporated or not, for all or any of the purposes of this Act.
(3)
The Government shall, every year, make a grant to the Board of a sum equivalent to the administrative expenses of the
Board.
(4)
All moneys received by or on behalf of the Board by virtue of this Act, all proceeds of land or any other kind of property
sold by the Board, all rents, betterment charges and all interest, profits and other moneys accruing to the Board shall
constitute the fund of the Board [and to pay any deficit in the Fund].
[Added by Act No.33 of 2018, dated 01.11.2018.]
(5)
Except as otherwise directed by the Government all moneys and receipts, specified in the foregoing provisions and
forming part of the fund of the Board shall be deposited in the [State Bank]
[Substituted 'Hyderabad State Bank' by Act No.33 of 2018, dated 01.11.2018.]
or in any scheduled Bank or invested in such securities as may be approved by the Government.
(6)
Such account shall be operated upon by such Officers as may be authorised by the Board.
[***]
[Omitted '(7)' by Act No. 33 of 2018, dated 01.11.2018.]
59.
[ Application of the fund.
[Substituted by Act No.33 of 2018, dated 01.11.2018.]
- All property, Fund and all other assets held by the Board on behalf of the State shall be applied by the Board for the
purpose of this Act and in accordance with the provisions of this Act.].
60.
Expenditure in case of urgency.
(1)
Where in the opinion of the Board circumstances of extreme urgency have arisen it shall be lawful for the Board to make
for the purpose of this Act in any year, expenditure not exceeding rupees ten thousand, notwithstanding the fact that
such expenditure has not been included in its annual programme or supplementary programme sanctioned by the
Government or the variation of the programme made under section 29;
(2)
Where any sum is expended under circumstances of extreme urgency as provided in sub-section (1), a report thereof
Page 20/27
----- PAGE 21 -----
Andhra Pradesh Housing Board Act, 1956
indicating the source from which it is proposed to meet the expenditure shall be made by the Board as soon as
practicable to the Government.
61.
Subventions and loans to the Board.
(1)
The Government may from time to time make subventions to the Board for the purposes of this Act on such terms and
conditions not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act as the Government may determine.
(2)
The Government may from time to time, advance loans to the Board on such terms and conditions not inconsistent with
the provisions of this Act as the Government may determine.
62.
Power of Board to borrow.
(1)
The Board may from time to time, with the previous sanction of the Government and subject to the provisions of this Act
and to such conditions as may be prescribed in this behalf, borrow any sum required for the purposes of this Act.
(2)
The rules made by the Government for the purposes of this section may empower the Board to borrow by the issue of
debentures and to enter in to financial arrangements with Banks and other financial institutions including the Life
Insurance Corporation of India.
(3)
All debentures issued by the Board, shall be in such form as the Board with the sanction of the Government may, from
time to time, determine.
(4)
Every debenture, shall be signed by the Chairman and one other member of the Board.
(5)
Loans borrowed and debentures issued under this section may be guaranteed by the Government as to the repayment
of principal and the payment of interest at such rate as may be fixed by the Government.
63.
Accounts and Audit.
(1)
The Board shall cause to be maintained proper books of accounts and such other books as the rules under this Act may
require and shall prepare in accordance with such rules and annual statement of accounts.
(2)
The Board shall cause its accounts to be audited annually by such person as the Government may direct.
(3)
As soon as the accounts of the Board have been audited, the Board shall send a copy thereof together with a copy of
the report of the auditor thereon to the Government and shall cause the accounts to be published in the prescribed
manner and place copies thereof on sale at a reasonable price [The audited accounts shall be laid before each house of
the State Legislature as soon as may be after they are received by State Government.]
[Added by Act No.33 of 2018, dated 01.11.2018.]
(4)
The Board shall comply with such directions as the Government may after perusal of the report of the auditor think fit to
issue.
64.
Concurrent and special audits of accounts.
(1)
Not withstanding anything contained in Section 63, the Government may order that there shall be concurrent audit of the
accounts of the Board by such person as it thinks fit. The Government may also direct a special audit to be made by a
Chartered Accountant appointed by it of the accounts of the Board relating to any particular transaction or a class or
series of transaction or to a particular period [The audited accounts shall be laid before each house of the State
Legislature as soon as may be after they are received by State Government.]
Page 21/27
----- PAGE 22 -----
Andhra Pradesh Housing Board Act, 1956
[Added by Act No.33 of 2018, dated 01.11.2018.]
.
(2)
When an order is made under sub-section (1), the Board shall present or cause to be presented for audit such accounts
and shall furnish to the person appointed under subsection (1) such information as the said person may require for the
purpose of audit.
Chapter - VIII Miscellaneous
65.
Reports.
- The Board shall, before such date and in such form and at such interval as may be prescribed, submit to the
Government a report on such matters as may be prescribed, and the Government shall cause report to be published in
the Andhra Pradesh Gazette. Every such report, shall be laid before the Legislative Assembly as soon as may be after it
is published.
66.
Other statements and returns.
- The Board shall also submit to the Government such statistics returns, particulars or statements in regard to any
proposed or existing housing schemes at such times and in such form and manner as may be prescribed or as the
Government may from time to time direct.
67.
Power of entry.
- Vice-Chairman and Housing Commissioner or any person either generally or specially authorised by the
Vice-Chairman and Housing Commissioner in this behalf may, with or without assistants or workmen, enter in to or upon
any land, in order :- Amendment Act No.6 of 1983; Act No.4 of 1984 Amended by Act No.25 of 1981.
(a)
to make any inspection, survey, measurement, valuation or inquiry;
(b)
to take levels;
(c)
to dig or bore into the sub-soil;
(d)
to set boundaries and intended lines of works;
(e)
to make such level, boundaries and lines of works and cut trenches; or
(f)
to do any other things;
Whenever it is necessary to do so, for any of the purposes of this Act os any rules made or scheme sanctioned
thereunder;
Provided as follows:-
(i)
No such entry shall be made between sunset and sunrise;
(ii)
No dwelling house and no public building, which is used as a dwelling place, shall be so entered except with the consent
of the occupier thereof, and without giving the said occupier at least 'twenty-four hours' previous written notice of the
intention to make such entry.
(iii)
sufficient notice shall in every instance be given even when any premises may otherwise be entered without notice, to
enable the inmates of any apartment appropriated to female to remove themselves to some part of the premises where
their privacy will not be disturbed.
(iv)
Due regard shall always be had, as far as may be compatible with the exigencies of the purposes for which the entry is
made to the social and religious usages of the occupants of the premises entered.
Page 22/27
----- PAGE 23 -----
Andhra Pradesh Housing Board Act, 1956
68.
Notice of suit against Board.
- No person shall commence any suit against the Board or against any Officer or servant of the Board or any person
acting under the orders of the Board, for anything done or purporting to be done in pursuance of this Act, without giving
to the Board, officer or servant or person two month's previous notice in writing of the intended suit and of the cause
thereof, nor after six months from the date of the act complained of.
69.
Triennial valuation of assets and liabilities of the Board.
- The Board shall triennially have a valuation of its assets and liabilities made by a valuer appointed by the Government.
Provided that it shall be open to the Government to direct a valuation to be made at any time it may consider necessary.
70.
Power to make Rules.
(1)
The Government may, by notification in the Andhra Pradesh gazette and subject to the condition of previous publication,
make rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act.
(2)
In particular and without prejudice to the Generality of the foregoing power such rules may be made for all or any of the
following purposes, namely:-
(a)
The allowances of members and remuneration and conditions of service of the Chairman under Section 7;
(b)
the manner and form in which contracts shall be entered into under Section 15;
(c)
the form of annual housing programme, budget and schedule of staff of officers and servants, particulars of housing
schemes and other particulars to be contained in the programme under section 24;
(d)
the other manner of publication of the draft the programme under Section 25;
(e)
the form of notice under Section 42;
(f)
the form of interest under Section 43;
(g)
the other matters to be decided by the tribunal under Section 48;
(h)
the procedure to be followed by the Tribunal under section 50;
(i)
the forms of notices under Section 52 and 53 and any other manner in which they may be served;
(j)
the manner in which damages under section 53 may be assessed;
(k)
the manner in which attachment and sale of movable property shall be made under Section 53;
(l)
the procedure to be followed by the competent authority and the appellate authority in proceedings under Chapter VI;
(m)
the conditions subject to which the Board may borrow any sum under Section 62;
(n)
the manner of preparation, maintenance and publication of accounts under Section 63;
(o)
the date before which the form in which the interval at which and the matters on which reports shall be submitted under
section 65;
(p)
Page 23/27
----- PAGE 24 -----
Andhra Pradesh Housing Board Act, 1956
the time at which and the form and manner in which statistics, returns, particulars and statements shall be submitted
under Section 66;
(q)
the manner in which the Board shall be superseded reconstituted under Section 81; and
(r)
any other matter which has to be or may be prescribed under this Act.
(3)
Every rule made under this section shall be laid as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of the state
Legislature while it is in session for a total period of fourteen days which may be comprised in one sessionor in two
successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session in which it is so laid or the session immediately following
both the Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both the houses agree that the rule should not be made,
the rule shall have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so however that any such
modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule.
71.
Regulations.
- The Board may from time to time, with the previous sanction of the Government make regulations consistent with this
act and with any rules made under this Act -
(a)
for the management and use of buildings constructed under any housing schemes;
(b)
the principles and procedure to be followed in allotment of tenements and premises;
(c)
for regulating the Board's procedure and the disposal of its business;
72.
Power to make bye-laws.
(1)
The Board may make bye-laws, not inconsistent with this Act, which may be necessary or expedient for the purpose of
carrying out its duties and functions under this Act.
(2)
A bye-law made under this section may provide that a contravention thereof shall be an offence.
(3)
No bye-law made by the Board shall come into force until it has been confirmed by the Government with or without
modification;
(4)
All bye-laws made under this section shall be published in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette.
73.
Penalty for contravention of bye-laws.
- Whoever contravenes a bye-law made under Section 72 shall, on conviction, be punished with imprisonment for a term
which may extend to one month or with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees or with both.
74.
Penalty for obstructing; etc.
- If any person :-
(a)
obstructs or molests any person with whom the Board has entered into a contract, in the performance or execution by
such person or his duty or of anything which he is empowered to require to do under this Act; or
(b)
removes any mark set up for the purpose of indicating any level or direction necessary to the execution of works
authorised under this Act; he shall on conviction, be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one
month or with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees or with both;
75.
Penalty for contravention of any provisions of Chapter VI and for obstructing lawful exercise of power thereunder.
Page 24/27
----- PAGE 25 -----
Andhra Pradesh Housing Board Act, 1956
- Any person who contravenes any provisions of Chapter VI or rule or order made thereunder or obstructs the lawful
exercise of any power conferred by or under that Chapter shall on conviction, be punished with fine which may extend to
one thousand rupees.
76.
Authority for prosecution.
- Unless otherwise provided, no Court shall take cognizance of any offence punishable under this Act except on the
complaint, or upon information received from the Board or some person authorised by the Board by General or special
order in this behalf.
77.
Certain persons to be public servants.
- The Tribunal, the appellate authority, the competent authority and all members, Officers and servants of the Board
shall be deemed when acting or purporting to act in pursuance of any of the provisions of this Act, to be public servants
within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code.
78.
Protection of action taken under this Act.
- No suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall lie against any person for anything which is in good faith done or
purported to be done under this Act.
79.
Government's powers of supervision.
(1)
The Government may give the Board such directions as in its opinion are necessary or expedient for carrying out the
purposes of this Act, after giving an opportunity to the Board to state its objections, if any, to such directions and after
considering the said objections. It shall be the duty of the Board to comply with such directions.
(2)
The Government may at any time for the purposes of satisfying itself as to the legality or propriety of any order passed
by, or as to the regularity of the proceedings of the Board or officer subordinate to the Government or the Board acting in
exercise of any power or authority conferred by this Act or the rules, regulations made thereunder, call for and bye-laws
and examine the record of any case pending before or disposed of by the Board or such officer and may pass such
order with reference thereto as it thinks fit;
Provided that no order shall be reversed unless notice has been given to the parties interested to appear and be heard
in support of such order.
80.
Default in performance of duty.
(1)
If the Government is satisfied that the Board has made default in performing any duty imposed on it by or under this Act,
it may fix a period for the performance of that duty.
(2)
If in the opinion of the Government the Board fails or neglects to perform such duty within the period to be fixed for its
performance, it shall be lawful for its performance, it shall be lawful for the Government, notwithstanding anything
contained in section 7, to supersede and reconstitute the Board in prescribed manner.
(3)
After the super session of the Board and until it is reconstituted, the powers, duties and functions of the Board under this
Act shall be carried on by the Government or by such officer or officers as the Government may appoint for this purpose.
81.
Dissolution of the Board.
(1)
The Government may by notification in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette, declare that with effect from such date as may be
specified in the notification, the Board shall be dissolved.
(2)
With effect from the date specified in the notification under sub-section (1).
(a)
Page 25/27
----- PAGE 26 -----
Andhra Pradesh Housing Board Act, 1956
all properties, funds and dues which are vested in any realizable by the Board shall vest in and be realizable by the
Government;
(b)
all liabilities enforceable against the Board shall be enforceable against the Government to the extent of the properties,
funds and dues vested in and realized by the Government;
(3)
Nothing in this section shall effect the liability of the Government in respect of loans or debentures guaranteed under
sub-section (5) of Section 62.
81A.
Power to remove difficulties.
(1)
If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the Government may, by order in the Andhra Pradesh
Gazette, make such provisions not inconsistent with the purposes of this Act as appear to them to be necessary or
expedient for removing the difficulty.
(2)
Every order made under sub-section (1) shall be laid on the Table of the Legislative assembly for a period of fourteen
days when the Assembly is in session.
82.
Repeal and saving.
(1)
The Hyderabad Labour Housing Act, 1952 (XXXVI of 1952), the Secunderabad Town Improvement Trust act of 1355
Fasli, and all rules, regulations and orders pertaining to the constitution, working and activities of the Hyderabad City
Improvement Board and for the time being having the force of Law, are hereby repealed;
Provided that the repeal shall not effect :-
(a)
the previous operation of any law so repeated or anything duly done thereunder, or
(b)
any right, privilege, obligation or liability acquired, accrued or incurred under any law so repealed, or
(c)
Any penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred in respect of any offence committed against any law so repealed, or
(d)
Any investigation, legal proceeding or remedy in respect of any such right, privilege obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture
or punishment as aforesaid; and any such investigation, legal proceeding or remedy may be instituted continued or
enforced, and any such penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be imposed as if this Act had not been passed:-
Provided further that subject to the proceeding, proviso, anything done or any action taken including any appointment or
delegation made, notification, order, instruction or direction issued, rule, regulation, from bye-law or scheme framed
under any such law shall be deemed to have been done or taken under this Act and shall continue to be in force
according unless and until superseded by anything done or any action taken under this Act.
(2)
All debt and obligations incurred, all contracts entered into and all matters and things engaged to be done, by, with or for
the Government for the purposes of the Hyderabad City Improvement Board and the Secunderabad Town Improvement
Trust before and upto the date of establishment of the Board under this Act shall be deemed to have been incurred,
entered, into or engaged to be done by, with or for the Board, all suits and other legal proceedings instituted or which
may be instituted by or against the Government shall be continued or instituted by or against the Board, as the case may
be.
(3)
All the assets entrusted to the Hyderabad City Improvement Board and the Secunderabad Town Improvement Trust and
all the assets acquired for the purposes of the said City Improvement Board and Town Improvement Trust shall after the
establishment of the Board under this Act vest in the Board for the purposes of this Act.
(4)
All applications made or proceedings instituted under the aforesaid laws shall be deemed to have been made or
Page 26/27
----- PAGE 27 -----
Andhra Pradesh Housing Board Act, 1956
instituted under this Act and shall be disposed of as if this Act was applicable at the time when such application or
proceeding was made or instituted.
(5)
All notifications issued before the date of the coming into force of this Act and all proceedings pending on that date for
the acquisition of any immovable property or easement for the purposes of the Hyderabad City Improvement Board or
the Secunderabad Town Improvement Trust shall be deemed to have been issued and to be proceedings for acquisition
of such immovable property or easement for the purposes of this Board under this Act.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 27/27