
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh School Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission Act, 2019
Andhra Pradesh School Education Regulatory and Monitoring
Commission Act, 2019
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/139015148/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
7
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh School Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission Act, 2019
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh School Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission Act, 2019
Act 21 of 2019
Published on 14 August 2019
Commenced on 14 August 2019
[This is the version of this document from 14 August 2019.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Andhra Pradesh School Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission Act, 2019
(Act
No.21 of 2019
)
Last Updated 9th March, 2020
The following Act of the Andhra Pradesh Legislature received the assent of the Governor on the 14th August, 2019 and
the said assent is hereby first published on the 16th August, 2019 in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette for general information
:
An Act to Provide for the Establishment of the Andhra Pradesh School Education Regulatory and Monitoring
Page 1/9
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh School Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission Act, 2019
Commission to Maintain Standards of Education, Regulation of Fee, Competences of Teachers, Effective
Inspection/Monitoring of Schools, and Implementation of Provisions of Right to Education Act, 2009, Public Spiritedness,
Equity, Excellence, Financial Stability and Probity alongwith Good Governance in Une with the National Polity on
Education and Right to Education Act, 2009 and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.
Whereas, the Government of Andhra Pradesh is committed to educating and nurturing all students by providing better
access, promoting enrolment and retention with emphasis on equity, quality and school infrastructure;
And whereas, Andhra Pradesh is making strides towards overall growth and sustainable development, Education
provides the surest instrument for attaining these goals;
And whereas, as per unified data on School Education (U-DISE) 2018-19, Andhra Pradesh has 62,063 Schools covering
13 districts that include Primary Schools, Upper Primary Schools and High Schools. The total students enrolment from
Primary to High School is 70,41,568. The total Teachers strength is 2,87,423. There are 778 Teacher Education
Institutions managed and regulated by School Education Department, including Government and Private;
And whereas, in the context of fast changes in the Education System, there is a need for change in the academic
requirements, teaching methods, supervision, curricula, courses of study, system of examination, teacher training,
school organization and teacher competences. This situation naturally calls for revised and continually rising standards
in these key areas of School Educational Administration. The existing rules are not comprehensive enough to deal with
aforesaid significant developments and have also proved ineffective in actual implementation. It has, therefore, become
necessary to confer by law adequate powers on the concerned authorities to deal with the changed situation;
And whereas, the Government of India enacted Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009;
Now, therefore, in this regard, the Andhra Pradesh Government endeavors to establish a regulatory mechanism to
maintain standards of school education, regulation of fee, competences of teachers, information disclosure, effective
inspection/monitoring of schools, implementation of the provisions of Right to Education Act, punitive measures on
defaulting schools etc. A Regulatory Commission established for this purpose will develop effective and responsive
regulation ensuring maintenance of standards of education, regulation of fee in private institutions, implementation of
provisions of Right to Education Act, 2009 (Central Act No.35 of 2009), public spiritedness, equity, excellence, financial
stability and probity alongwith good governance in line with the National Policy on Education and Right to Education Act,
2009.
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Seventieth Year of the Republic of India, as
follows :-
Chapter-I Preliminary
1.
Short title, extent, commencement and application.
(1)
This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh School Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission Act, 2019.
(2)
It extends to the whole of the State of Andhra Pradesh.
(3)
It shall come into force on such date as the Government may, by notification in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette, appoint.
(4)
It shall apply to all the Pre-Primary, Primary, Upper Primary, Secondary Education and Teacher Education Institutes in
the State of Andhra Pradesh.
2.
Definitions.
- In the Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(1)
"aided school" means a School, Teacher Education Institution established and tun by the private individuals/societies,
with the aid/financial support from Government;
(2)
"appropriate authority" means authority designated by Government for a particular purpose as per the existing rules;
(3)
"board" means Board of Secondary Education A.P. Central Board of Secondary Education, Council of Indian School
Page 2/9
----- PAGE 3 -----
Andhra Pradesh School Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission Act, 2019
Certification, any other Indian or International Board of examinations or any other board which Government may
specify;-
(4)
"commission" means the Andhra Pradesh School Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission established under
Section 3 of this Act;
(5)
"educational institution" means any institution of education in Pre-Primary, Primary, Upper Primary, Secondary Level
and Teacher Education;
(6)
"fees" means the total amount collected by the school from the student(s)/their parent(s)/their guardian(s)/any person
paying on behalf of the student. This to reflect the total burden on the parents and is the total of tuition fee and all other
charges paid to or collected by the school;
(7)
"Government" means the Government of Andhra Pradesh;
(8)
"member" means a member of the Commission including the Vice-Chairperson;
(9)
"prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this Act;
(10)
"private school" means a School, Teacher Education Institution established and run by the private individuals/societies
governed/affiliated to State/Central/ other boards;
(11)
"regulations" means regulations made by the Commission under Section 21 of this Act;
(12)
"Regulatory Body" means any State or Central Regulatory Body set up for the purpose;
(13)
"School Education" means study of a curriculum or course for the pursuit of knowledge from pre-primary, Classes I to X
and Teacher Education;
(14)
"student" means person enrolled in the Educational Institution, including teacher education for pursuing a course of
study from Pre-Primary, Classes I to X, Teacher Education;
(15)
"teacher", means Headmaster, School Assistant, Secondary Grade Teacher, Physical Education Teacher, pre-primary
teacher, teacher education faculty, etc., or any other person required to impart education or to guide research or render
guidance in any other form to the students for pursuing a course of study in such educational institutions, including
teacher education institutions.
Chapter-II Establishment of the Commission
3.
Establishment of Commission.
(1)
With effect from such date as the State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint, there shall be
established a Commission by the name of the Andhra Pradesh School Education Regulatory and Monitoring
Commission.
(2)
The Commission shall be a body corporate having perpetual succession and a common seal and shall sue and be sued
by the said name;
(3)
The headquarters of the Commission shall be at such a place as may be notified by the State Government.
4.
Composition of the Commission.
(1)
Page 3/9
----- PAGE 4 -----
Andhra Pradesh School Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission Act, 2019
The Commission shall consist of,-
(a)
A Chairperson who is a Retired Judge of the high Court;
(b)
A Vice-Chairperson who is an eminent academician of National repute as prescribed under the rules;
(c)
One Member who is an eminent Chartered Accountant or a person with over 20 years of experience in the field of Public
Finance;
(d)
Five Members who are eminent Academicians of National repute in school education & teacher education;
(e)
Two Administrative Members who have extensive experience in administrative matters preferably a person belonging to
the Indian Administrative Service, or equivalent cadres, either working or retired;
(f)
One senior officer from School Education Department in the cadre of Director/ Addl. Director working or retired;
(g)
One representative from one of the good School Education Institution in the State.
Such members must be of unimpeachable integrity and of undoubted eminence in their fields.
(2)
There shall be a Secretary who shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Commission who shall be appointed by the
State Government in consultation with the Commission on such terms and conditions, as may be prescribed from time to
time.
(3)
The Chairperson and members of the Commission shall be appointed by the State Government, for a period of five
years or until he or she attains the age of 70 years, whichever is earlier:
Provided that after the expiry of the term of the office, the Chairperson or the member, as the case may be, shall be
ineligible for further employment or any assignment in any of the School or Higher Educational Institutions within Andhra
Pradesh or their associate offices or companies within or outside Andhra Pradesh.
5.
Selection of the members of the Commission.
(1)
The Chairperson shall be appointed by the Government in consultation with the Chief Justice of High Court, Andhra
Pradesh.
(2)
Members of the Commission shall be appointed by a Search-cum-Selection Committee consisting of,-
(i)
the Chief Secretary of the Government of Andhra Pradesh-Chairperson ex-officio; and
(ii)
four experts of repute who have special knowledge of, and professional experience in, school education & teacher
education and related research, belonging to Institutes of National Importance, not holding any office of profit under the
Government of Andhra Pradesh, to be nominated as members by the State Government.
(3)
The terms of reference of the Search-cum-Selection Committee and the manner of selection of panel of names shall be
such as may be prescribed.
6.
Vacancy filled by the Government.
- In the event of the occurrence of a vacancy in the office of the Chairperson by reason of his resignation, death or
otherwise, the State Government shall appoint the Chairperson immediately in accordance with the provision of this Act
and till such time the Vice-Chairperson shall officiate as the Chairperson of the Commission.
7.
Resignation and Removal of members.
Page 4/9
----- PAGE 5 -----
Andhra Pradesh School Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission Act, 2019
(1)
Any member, by notice, in writing, addressed to the Government may resign from office.
(2)
No member shall be removed from office without giving such member an opportunity to defend himself.
(3)
The State Government may, by order, remove from office, any member, in public interest
8.
Appointment of officers and other employees of the Commission.
(1)
To efficiently discharge its functions under this Act, the Commission shall engage such number of officers and other
employees as it may consider necessary, subject to such regulations as may be made in this regard.
(2)
The terms and conditions of service of the officers and employees of the Commission shall be such as may be
prescribed.
Chapter-III Powers and Functions
9.
Powers and functions of the Commission.
- The Commission shall take all such steps as necessary for ensuring coordinated and integrated development of
School Education and maintain high standards and for the purposes of performing its functions under this Act. The
Commission may,-
(i)
shall ensure that standards of infrastructure, admission, teaching, teacher education, student assessments,
examinations, research and qualification of teachers are being maintained by the School Educational Institutions in
accordance with the guidelines issued by the Central or the State Government from time to time;
(ii)
the Commission shall have the power to monitor and regulate Fee across all Private Schools in the State duly
developing parameters of fee structure and grading of schools, irrespective of their Board of Affiliation (or Curriculum)
including but not limited to CBSE, ICSE, IB, IGCSE and/or any other in Private Schools, and private teacher education
institutions in School Education. However, this shall not apply to any of the school education institutions managed by the
Government of India Agency or Department;
(iii)
the Commission shall lay framework of guidelines regarding the service conditions of teachers in Private (Aided and
Un-Aided) School Educational Institutions and Private (Aided and Un-Aided) Teacher Educational Institutions;
(iv)
the Commission shall monitor the implementation of the provision of 12.1.C of the Right to Education Act, 2009, where
by 25% of reservation of seats in Class-I in Private Un-Aided Schools for dis-advantaged groups and weaker sections by
developing suitable guidelines;
(v)
the Commission shall also have the responsibility for setting up the framework under which an independent
Accreditation Agency/s shall carry out the task of accrediting school educational institutions, including Teacher
Education Institutions;
(vi)
whenever required, the Commission may hold public constitutions with various stakeholders, including Private Education
Institutions Management Associations, from time to time;
(vii)
the Commission shall ensure redressal of grievances of students and parents in a time bound manner;
(viii)
the Commission shall advise, when called upon to do so by the State Government, as the case may be, on policies
relating to school education, teacher education and research in any field of knowledge therein; cause to be undertaken
policy research in school education and teacher education to identify future direction and processes in school education;
(ix)
Page 5/9
----- PAGE 6 -----
Andhra Pradesh School Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission Act, 2019
the Commission shall ensure that all School Education Institutions, including Teacher Education Institutions, comply with
guidelines of information disclosure to supervise, monitor and evaluate their performance;
(x)
wherever required, the findings of the Regulatory Commission shall be communicated to appropriate authority for
necessary action as per the provisions of law/Rules;
(xi)
if any School Education Institution/s, including Teacher Education Institutions fails, within a reasonable time, to comply
with any directions made by the Commission, the Commission after taking into consideration the reasons/cause, if any,
shall initiate action in accordance with the provisions of this Act;
(xii)
in case of successive violations of any provision of this Act, Rules and Regulations made thereunder, the Commission
shall direct the appropriate authority to withdraw the affiliation or recognition of such institutions.
10.
Penalties.
(1)
The Commission may, for the contravention of any provision of this Act or other relevant Acts/Rules or Regulations
recommend the appropriate authority for imposing penalties made thereunder, or by directions impose appropriate
penalty.
(2)
In case of grave violations, the Commission shall direct the appropriate authority to withdraw the affiliation or recognition
of such institutions.
(3)
The penalty imposed under sub-section (1) shall be recoverable from the endowment fund or any other Fund or as an
arrear of land revenue from the School Education Institution/s, including Teacher Education Institutions concerned. 1
11.
Procedure and Powers of the Commission.
(1)
The Commission shall, for the purposes of any inquiry or proceedings under this Act, have the same- power's as are
vested in a civil Court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act No.5 of 1908) in respect of the following
matters, namely :-
(i)
Summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person and examining him on oath;
(ii)
discovery and production of any document or' other material object producible as evidence;
(iii)
receiving evidence on affidavits;
(iv)
requisitioning of any public record;
(v)
issuing commission for the examination of witnesses;
(vi)
reviewing its decisions, directions and orders;
(vii)
any other matters which may be prescribed.
(2)
The Commission shall have the powers to pass such interim order/s in any proceeding, hearing or matter as the
Commission may consider appropriate.
(3)
The Commission may authorize any person, as it deems fit, to represent the interest of the students and parents in the
proceedings before it.
(4)
Page 6/9
----- PAGE 7 -----
Andhra Pradesh School Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission Act, 2019
All disputes under this Act shall be decided summarily in accordance with the provisions of Order XXXVII of the Code of
Civil Procedure, 1908.
(5)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the School Education Institution, including Teacher Education Institution
shall be bound to comply with all the orders passed, rules, regulations, norms, etc., of the Regulating Bodies and
provide all such facilities and assistance to such Bodies as are required by them to discharge their duties and carry out
their functions.
Chapter-IV Finance, Accounts and Audit
12.
Payment to the Commission.
- The State Government may, after due appropriation made by the State Legislature by law in this behalf, pay to the
Commission in each financial year such sums as may be considered necessary for the performance of functions of the
Commission under this Act.
13.
Fund of the Commission.
(1)
The Commission shall have its own Fund; and all sums which may from time to time be paid to it by the State
Government and all the receipts of the Commission shall be credited to the Fund and all payments by the Commission
shall be made therefrom.
(2)
The Commission may spend such sums as it thinks fit for performing its functions under this Act, and such sums shall be
treated as expenditure payable out of the Fund of the Commission.
14.
Budget.
- 'The Commission shall prepare, in such form and at such time each year as nay be prescribed, a budget in respect of
the financial year next ensuing showing the estimated 'Receipts and expenditure, and copies thereof shall be forwarded
to the State Government.
15.
Accounts and Audit of the Commission.
(1)
The Commission shall maintain its accounts in such form and in such manner as may be prescribed.
(2)
The accounts of the Commission shall be audited annually by the Comptroller and I Auditor General of India.
(3)
The annual accounts of the Commission together with the audit report thereon shall be forwarded to the State
Government, the Government shall cause the same to be laid before the State Legislature and shall also forward a copy
of the audit report to the Commission for taking suitable action on the matter arising out of the audit report.
16.
Annual Report.
(1)
The Commission shall, as soon as, may be, after the end of 1 each financial year, prepare and submit to the State
Government, before such date and in such form as may be prescribed, a report giving an account of its activities during
the previous year and the State Government, shall cause every such report to be laid before the I Legislature of the
State as soon as may be, after its receipt.
(2)
The Commission shall send a copy of the audited annual accounts of the Commission j to the State Government every
year, and the State Government shall cause such accounts to be laid before the Legislature of the State.
Chapter-V Miscellaneous
17.
Chairperson and members, officers and employees of the Commission to be public servants.
- Chair-person and all the Members of Commission established under this Act, and all officers and other employees of
Page 7/9
----- PAGE 8 -----
Andhra Pradesh School Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission Act, 2019
the Commission when acting or purporting to act in pursuance of any provisions of this Act, or Regulations made or
orders or directions issued thereunder shall be deemed to be public servants with the meaning of Section 21 of the
Indian Penal Code, 1860 (Central Act No.45 of 1860).
18.
Protection of actions taken in good faith.
- No suit, prosecution, or other legal j proceedings shall lie against the Commission, or Chairperson or any member,
officer, employee in respect of anything done or intended to be done in good faith, or any contract of any kind entered
into by the Commission in good faith in pursuance of this Act, or the regulations made, or orders or directions issued
thereunder.
19.
Power of State Government to issue directions.
(1)
The State Government shall be empowered to seek a review of any of the decisions of the Commission, for reasons to
be recorded in writing.
(2)
The State Government can revise and modify the order of the Commission through speaking order in public interest.
20.
Power to remove difficulties.
(1)
If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the State Government may, by order published in the
Official Gazette, make such provisions, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, as appear to it to be necessary
for the purpose of removing the difficulty:
Provided that no such order shall be made after the expiry of three years from the commencement of this Act.
(2)
Every order made under this section shall be laid, as soon as it is made before the State Legislature.
21.
Power to make regulations.
(1)
The Commission may, make regulations to carry out the provisions of this Act with prior approval of the Government.
(2)
Every Regulation made under this section shall be laid, as soon as it is made before the State Legislature.
22.
Power to make rules.
(1)
The State Government may, by notification publish in the Official Gazette, make rules in consultation with the
Commission for carrying out the provisions of this Act.
(2)
Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing powers, such rules may provide for all or any of the following
matters, namely :-
(a)
procedure to follow by the members in the discharge of their functions;
(b)
the inspection of School Education Institutions;
(c)
the form and manner in which the accounts shall be maintained by the Commission under Section 15 of this Act;
(d)
such other matters as may be required for proper functioning of the Commission.
(3)
Every rule made under this Act shall, immediately after it is made, be laid before the Legislature of the State, if it is in
session and if it is not in session, in the next session immediately following for a total period of fourteen days which may
be comprised in one session or in two successive sessions and if, before the expiration of the session in which it is so
Page 8/9
----- PAGE 9 -----
Andhra Pradesh School Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission Act, 2019
laid or the session immediately following the Legislature of the State agrees in making any modification in the rule or in
the annulment of the rule, the rule shall, from the date on which the modification or annulment is notified, have effect
only in such modified form or shall stand annulled as the case may be, so however, that any such modification or
annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 9/9