
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh Assigned Lands (Prohibition of Transfers) (Amendment) Act, 2019
Andhra Pradesh Assigned Lands (Prohibition of Transfers)
(Amendment) Act, 2019
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/26368890/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
6
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh Assigned Lands (Prohibition of Transfers) (Amendment) Act, 2019
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh Assigned Lands (Prohibition of Transfers) (Amendment) Act, 2019
Act 11 of 2019
Published on 18 February 2019
Not commenced
[This is the version of this document from 18 February 2019.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
AN ACT FURTHER TO AMEND THE ANDHRA PRADESH ASSIGNED LANDS (PROHIBITION OF TRANSFERS) ACT,
1977.
Be it enacted by the Legislature of State of Andhra Pradesh in the Seventieth year of Republic of India as follows,-
1.
Short title and Commencement.
(1)
This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh Assigned Lands (Prohibition of Transfers) (Amendment) Act, 2019.
(2)
It shall be deemed to have come into force with effect on and from the 29thJanuary, 2019.
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh Assigned Lands (Prohibition of Transfers) (Amendment) Act, 2019
2.
Amendment of Section 2.
In the Andhra Pradesh Assigned Lands (Prohibition of Transfers) Act, 1977 (herein after referred to as the principal Act),
in section 2, in clause (1), for the words, ?lands assigned?, the words ?lands or house sites assigned? and for the
words, ?landless poor persons? wherever they occur, the words, ?landless or homeless poor persons? shall be
substituted.
3.
Amendment of Section 3
In the principal Act, in section 3,-
(i)
after sub-section (2), the following sub-sections shall be inserted, namely:-
?(2A) No assignee shall transfer any assigned house site, and no person shall acquire any assigned house site, either
by purchase, gift, lease, mortgage, exchange or otherwise, till completion of the period of 20 years from the date of
assignment.
(2B)
Where the assigned House site was alienated by the assignee as on the date of commencement of this Act, such house
site shall be regularized in favour of the alienee as a one- time measure.
(2C)
The eligible family shall be assigned house site only once in life time.?
(ii)
in sub-section(3), after the expression ?sub-section(2)? the expression ?or sub-section(2A)? shall be inserted.
4.
The Andhra Pradesh Assigned Lands (Prohibition of Transfers)(Amendment) Ordinance, 2019 is hereby repealed
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2