
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh (50 Percent Reservation to women in all the Nominated Posts) Act, 2019
Andhra Pradesh (50 Percent Reservation to women in all the
Nominated Posts) Act, 2019
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/180784897/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh (50 Percent Reservation to women in all the Nominated Posts) Act, 2019
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh (50 Percent Reservation to women in all the Nominated Posts) Act, 2019
Act 27 of 2019
Published on 1 January 2019
Commenced on 1 January 2019
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 2019.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Andhra Pradesh (50 Percent Reservation to women in all the Nominated Posts) Act, 2019
(Act
No. 27 of 2019
)
Last Updated 6th March, 2020
The following Act of the Andhra Pradesh Legislature received the assent of the Governor on the Nth August, 2019 and
the said assent is hereby first published on the Nth August, 2019 in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette for general information
:
An Act to provide reservation for women in nominated posts for political up-liftment of women and for matters connected
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh (50 Percent Reservation to women in all the Nominated Posts) Act, 2019
therewith or incidental thereto.
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Seventieth Year of the Republic of India, as
follows :
1.
Short title, extent and commencement.
(1)
This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh (50 Percent Reservation to women in all the Nominated Posts) Act, 2019.
(2)
It extends to the whole of the State of Andhra Pradesh.
(3)
It shall come into force on such date as the State Government may, by notification in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette,
appoint:
2.
Definitions.
- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
'Government' means the Government of Andhra Pradesh;
(b)
'Nominated Post' means Office to which an appointment is made or proposed by the Government;
(c)
'Notification' means Notification published in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette and the word notified shall be construed,
accordingly;
(d)
'Prescribed' means prescribed by rules made under this Act.
3.
Reservation.
- There shall be 50% Reservation to women in all the nominated posts in all the
Corporations/Agencies/Bodies/Boards/Societies/Committees functioning under all the Administrative Departments of the
State of Andhra Pradesh.
(i)
There shall be 50% Reservation to women in respect of all the nominated posts of Chairpersons in all the
Corporations/Agencies/Bodies/Boards/Societies/Committees, functioning under all the Administrative Departments of
the State of Andhra Pradesh;
(ii)
There shall be 50% Reservation to women in respect of all the nominated posts of Directors/Members in all the
Corporations/Agencies/Bodies/Boards/Societies/ Committees, functioning under all the Administrative Departments of
the State of Andhra Pradesh;
(iii)
There shall be 50% Reservation in the Nominated Posts of Directors/Members in Every
Corporation/Agency/Body/Board/Society/Committee, as a Unit;
(iv)
The above mentioned reservation is not applicable to the Bodies and Boards created under The Andhra Pradesh
Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments Act, 1987 (Act
No.30 of 1987
) and the Wakf Act, 1995 (Central Act No.43 of 1995);
(v)
For the removal of doubts, it is further clarified that, the present reservation is as a measure of horizontal reservation
across all communities and this Act is to be read in conjunction with the Reservation in Nominated posts for Political
up-liftment of BCs, SCs, STs and Minorities.
4.
Nodal Department.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Andhra Pradesh (50 Percent Reservation to women in all the Nominated Posts) Act, 2019
- The Women, Children, Disabled and Senior Citizens Department shall be the Nodal Department to monitor the
reservation to Women in all the nominated posts. The General Administration Department shall provide the list of such
nominated posts in all the Corporations/Agencies/Bodies/Boards/Societies/Committees, functioning under all the
Administrative Departments of the State of Andhra Pradesh.
5.
Power to remove difficulties.
(1)
If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of the Act, the Government may, by order, make such provisions,
not inconsistent with the provisions of the Act, as appear to them to be necessary or expedient for removing the difficulty
:
Provided that no such order shall be made after the expiry of two years from the commencement of the Act.
(2)
Every order made under this section shall as soon as, may be, after it is made, laid before each house of the State
Legislature.
6.
Act to override the other laws.
- Unless otherwise expressly provided in this Act, the provisions of this Act and of any orders and rules made there
under shall have effect, notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in
force or any instrument having effect by virtue of such law.
7.
Power to make rules.
(1)
The Government may, by notification, make rules for carrying out all or any of the purposes of this Act.
(2)
Every rule made under this Act shall, immediately after it is made, be laid before the Legislature of the State, if it is in
session and if it is not in session, in the session immediately following for a total period of fourteen days which may be
comprised in one session or in two successive sessions and if, before the expiration of the session in which it is so laid
or the session immediately following the Legislature agrees in making any modification in the rule or in the annulment of
the rule, the rule shall, from the date on which the modification or annulment is notified, have effect only in such modified
form or shall stand annulled as the case may be so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without
prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3