
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh Rights in Land and Pattadar Pass Books (Amendment) Act, 2019
Andhra Pradesh Rights in Land and Pattadar Pass Books
(Amendment) Act, 2019
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/184433985/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh Rights in Land and Pattadar Pass Books (Amendment) Act, 2019
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh Rights in Land and Pattadar Pass Books (Amendment) Act, 2019
Act 8 of 2019
Published on 18 February 2019
Not commenced
[This is the version of this document from 18 February 2019.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
AN ACT FURTHER TO AMEND THE ANDHRA PRADESH RIGHTS IN LAND AND PATTADAR PASS BOOKS ACT,
1971.
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Seventieth Year of the Republic of India as
follows:-
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
This Act may_be called the Andhra Pradesh Rights in Land and Pattadar Pass Books (Amendment) Act, 2019.
(2)
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh Rights in Land and Pattadar Pass Books (Amendment) Act, 2019
It shall come into force on such date as the Government may, by notification, appoint.
2.
Amendment of Section 2.
In the Andhra Pradesh Rights in Land and Pattadar Pass Books Act, 1971 (herein after referred to as the Principal Act)
in section 2,-
(i)
The existing clause (1) shall be renumbered as clause (1-f).
(ii)
Before the clause(1-f), as so renumbered,the following clauses shall be inserted, namely,
?(1). ?Bhudhaar? means the unique identification number assigned to any parcel of land, as contained in the Record of
Rights, in such manner as may be prescribed;
(1-a). ?Bhudhaar Card? means a document prepared in such format as may be prescribed describing a parcel or
parcels of land as contained in the Record of Rights, and specifying the Bhudhaar Number or Numbers assigned to such
parcel or parcels, along with the stamp of date and time at which such card has been prepared, and, includes
e-Bhudhaar Card and m-Bhudhaar Card;
(1-b). ?e-Bhudhaar Card? means a Bhudhaar Card which is generated and maintained in an electronic form;
(1-c). ?m-Bhudhaar Card? means a Bhudhaar Card which is generated and maintained in an electronic form and which
can be downloaded and used on a mobile device;
(1-d). ?Permanent Bhudhaar? means a Bhudhaar Number assigned from a distinct series to indicate that the
Geo-referencing of the parcel of land or lands appurtenant to the property has been completed;
(1-e). ?Temporary Bhudhaar? means a Bhudhaar Number assigned from a distinct series to indicate that the
Geo-referencing of the parcel of land or lands appurtenant to the property has not been completed;?.
3.
Insertion of new section 3-A.
In the Principal Act, after section 3, the following new section shall be added, namely,-
3A.
Generation and updation of Bhudhaar.
Bhudhaar shall be generated automatically as per the updated record of Rights under Section 3(1), Section 5 and
Section 5-A and shall be automatically updated electronically.
4.
Insertion of new sections 6-E and 6-F.
In the Principal Act, after section 6-D, the following new sections shall be added, namely,-
6E.
Assignment of Bhudhaar to parcels of land.
Every parcel of land to which the Act applies shall be assigned automatically a Bhudhaar, in such manner as may be
prescribed:
Provided that the manner of the assigning permanent Bhudhaar defined under clause (1) shall take into consideration
the geographical location of the parcel of the land, its shape determined by the coordinates of its corner points,
ownership as per the Record of Rights.
Provided further that Bhudhaar Numbers both temporary and permanent from specially reserved series may be
assigned to parcels of land belonging to Government, Central or State, Local Bodies, or Community, or land classified
as Endowment or Wakf.
6F.
Generation of Bhudhaar Card.
(1)
Bhudhaar Cards both temporary and permanent shall be generated in respect of all the parcels of the land to which
Bhudhaars
have been assigned and shall be made accessible online to the Pattadars
or owners of such land, in such manner as may be prescribed.
(2)
. Single Bhudhaar Card shall be issued for all the parcels of land held by the same pattadar or Owner taking the village
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Andhra Pradesh Rights in Land and Pattadar Pass Books (Amendment) Act, 2019
as a unit for this purpose.
(3)
. The Bhudhaar Card, including e-Bhudhaar Card and m-Bhudhaar Card will have the same legal value and and status
as a Pattadar Pass Book-cum Title Deed would have in respect of such parcels of land, as at the time of its
preparation.?.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3