
----- PAGE 1 -----
Damodaram Sanjivayya National Law University (Amendment) Act, 2019
Damodaram Sanjivayya National Law University (Amendment) Act,
2019
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/153177439/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Damodaram Sanjivayya National Law University (Amendment) Act, 2019
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Damodaram Sanjivayya National Law University (Amendment) Act, 2019
Act 1 of 2019
Published on 17 February 2019
Not commenced
[This is the version of this document from 17 February 2019.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
AN ACT FURTHER TO AMEND DAMODARAM SANJIVAYYA NATIONAL LAW UNIVERSITY ACT, 2008.
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Seventieth Year of the Republic of India, as
follows:-
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
This Act may be called Damodaram Sanjivayya National Law University (Amendment) Act, 2019.
(2)
It shall come into force on such date as the State Government may, by notification, appoint.
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
Damodaram Sanjivayya National Law University (Amendment) Act, 2019
2.
Amendment of Section 8 [Act No. 32 of 2008].
In Damodaram Sanjivayya National Law University Act, 2008 (hereinafter referred to as the principal Act), in section 8,-
(i)
In the marginal heading, before the words, ?Chancellor of the University.? the words, ?Visitor and? shall be inserted.
(ii)
The existing sub-section (1) shall be renumbered as sub- section (2).
(iii)
Before sub-section (2), as so renumbered, the following sub- section shall be inserted, namely,-
?(1) (i) The Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of India, or his nominee from among the sitting judges of the Supreme
Court of India shall be the Visitor of the University.
(ii)
The Visitor shall have the right to call for the report on any matter pertaining to the affairs of the University and suggest
recommendations to the General Council of the University.?.
3.
Amendment of Section 35.
In the Principal Act, in Section 35, for sub-section (4), the following shall be substituted, namely,-
?(4) The accounts of the University shall be audited by the Accountant General, Andhra Pradesh or any other auditor
appointed by him.?.
4.
Amendment of Section 43.
In the Principal Act, in Section 43, in clause (iii), after the expression ?Non Resident Indians.?, the expression ?/Non
Resident Indians sponsored.? shall be added.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2