
----- PAGE 1 -----
Andhra Pradesh Infrastructure (Transparency through Judicial Preview) (Salaries, Allowance...
Andhra Pradesh Infrastructure (Transparency through Judicial
Preview) (Salaries, Allowances and other conditions of Service of
Hon'ble Judge) Rules, 2019
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/193979437/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Andhra Pradesh - Act
Andhra Pradesh Infrastructure (Transparency through Judicial Preview) (Salaries, Allowances and other conditions of
Service of Hon'ble Judge) Rules, 2019
ANDHRA PRADESH
India
Andhra Pradesh Infrastructure (Transparency through Judicial Preview) (Salaries, Allowances and other conditions of
Service of Hon'ble Judge) Rules, 2019
Rule
ANDHRA-PRADESH-INFRASTRUCTURE-TRANSPARENCY-THROUGH-JUDICIAL-PREVIEW-SALARIES-ALLOWAN
CES-AND-OTHER-CONDITIONS-OF-SERVICE-OF-HON-BLE-JUDGE-RULES-2019 of 2019
Published on 16 October 2019
Commenced on 16 October 2019
[This is the version of this document from 16 October 2019.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Andhra Pradesh Infrastructure (Transparency through Judicial Preview) (Salaries, Allowances and other conditions of
Service of Hon'ble Judge) Rules, 2019
Published vide Notification No. G.O.Ms.No.88, Industries, Infrastructure, Investment & Commerce (Airports), dated
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Andhra Pradesh Infrastructure (Transparency through Judicial Preview) (Salaries, Allowance...
16.10.2019
Last Updated 21st December, 2019
Notification No. G.O.Ms.No.88. - In exercise of the powers conferred under sub-section (1) of section 16 of the Andhra
Pradesh Infrastructure (Transparency through Judicial Preview) Act, 2019 (Act.No.34 of 2019), the Government of
Andhra Pradesh hereby makes the following rules: -
1.
Short Title And Commencement.
- These rules may be called the Andhra Pradesh Infrastructure (Transparency through Judicial Preview) (Salaries,
Allowances and other conditions of Service of Hon'ble Judge) Rules, 2019.
2.
Definitions.
(1)
"Act" means the Andhra Pradesh Infrastructure (Transparency through Judicial Preview) Act 2019;
(2)
"acting Judge" means a person appointed to act as a Judge of the High Court [under clause (2) of article 224 of the
Constitution];
(3)
"High Court" means the High Court for the State of Andhra Pradesh;
(4)
"Hon'ble Judge" means person who is or has been Hon'ble Judge of the High Court appointed under sub-section (1) of
section 3 of the Act
(5)
"Pension" means a pension of any kind whatsoever payable to or in respect of the Hon'ble Judge and includes any
gratuity or other sum or sums so payable by way of death or retirement benefits;
3.
Applicability.
- The service conditions of the Hon'ble Judge shall be governed by the High Court Judges (Salaries and Conditions of
Service) Act, 1954 (Act No. 28 of 1954) and the High Court Judges Rules, 1956 as subsequently amended from time to
time and the instructions and orders issued by the Government of India from time to time with reference to those rules to
the extent they are relevant subject to the variations and modifications contained in these rules.
4.
Salaries and Allowances.
- (i) In case of sitting judge being appointed under the provisions of the Act, the salary of the Hon'ble Judge shall be
equal to the salary being drawn, as on date of appointment together with other emoluments including H.R.A, D.A, T.A,
leave facilities etc., as per the High Court Judges (Salaries and Conditions of Service) Act, 1954 (Act No.28 of 1954)
and the High Court Judges Rules, 1956 as subsequently amended from time to time.
(ii)
In case of retired Judge, salary equal to that drawn by a sitting judge of High Court, minus pension paid to him, together
with other emoluments like H.R.A, D.A and T.A, leave facility as payable to a sitting judge of the High Court as per the
High Court Judges (Salaries and Conditions of Service) Act, 1954 (Act No.28 of 1954) and the High Court Judges Rules,
1956 as subsequently amended from time to time.
5.
Vacation Holidays.
- The Hon'ble Judge shall have a vacation of thirty days in each calendar year.
The hours of work for the Hon'ble Judge and for the Officers and other employees deployed to assist the Hon'ble Judge
under rule 3 (iii) of the Andhra Pradesh Infrastructure (Transparency through Judicial Preview) Rules, 2019, shall be
such as may be decided by the Hon'ble Judge from time to time:
6.
Leaves.
- (1 )The Hon'ble Judge shall be entitled to leave of various kinds as are admissible to the Judges of the High Court of
Andhra Pradesh,
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Andhra Pradesh Infrastructure (Transparency through Judicial Preview) (Salaries, Allowance...
(2)
The authority competent to grant or refuse leave to the Hon'ble Judge or to revoke or curtail the leave granted to him/her
shall be the Governor.
7.
Travelling Allowance.
- The Hon'ble Judge shall receive such reasonable allowance to him for the expenses incurred in travelling on duty
within the territory of India and they shall be afforded such reasonable facilities in connection with travelling as may from
time to time be prescribed in the case of Judges of the High Court of Andhra Pradesh respectively.
8.
Residential Accomodation.
(1)
The Hon'ble Judge shall be entitled without payment of rent, to the use of a furnished - official residence on par with
Judge of the High Court of Andhra Pradesh.
(2)
The Hon'ble Judge who reside in his/her own house shall be paid house rent allowance besides an additional amount
towards annual maintenance of the House and towards special repairs of the house in accordance with the rules as are
applicable to High Court Judges.
9.
Conveyance Facility.
- The Hon'ble Judge shall be entitled to staff car and consumption of petrol as per the High Court Judges (Salaries and
Conditions of Service) Act, 1954 (Act No.28 of 1954) and the High Court Judges Rules, 1956 as subsequently amended
from time to time/ shall be provided a vehicle for official usage along with drivers.
10.
Dearness Allowance Etc..
- The Dearness Allowance, City Compensatory Allowance and other allowances payable to the Hon'ble Judge, shall be
the same as those payable to the Judge of the High Court of Andhra Pradesh.
11.
Leave Travel Concession.
- The Leave Travel Concession Rules that are applicable to the Judges of the High Court of Andhra Pradesh shall apply
to the Hon'ble Judge.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3