
----- PAGE 1 -----
Rules for Medical Attendance and Treatment Framed Under Regulation 16 of the Assam State E...
Rules for Medical Attendance and Treatment Framed Under
Regulation 16 of the Assam State Electricity Board Employees'
Service Regulations
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/41222692/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Assam - Act
Rules for Medical Attendance and Treatment Framed Under Regulation 16 of the Assam State Electricity Board
Employees' Service Regulations
ASSAM
India
Rules for Medical Attendance and Treatment Framed Under Regulation 16 of the Assam State Electricity Board
Employees' Service Regulations
Rule
RULES-FOR-MEDICAL-ATTENDANCE-AND-TREATMENT-FRAMED-UNDER-REGULATION-16-OF-THE-ASSAM-ST
ATE-ELECTRICITY-BOARD-EMPLOYEES-SERVICE-REGULATIONS of 1800
Published on 1 January 1800
Commenced on 1 January 1800
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 1800.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Rules for Medical Attendance and Treatment Framed Under Regulation 16 of the Assam State Electricity Board
Employees' Service Regulations
Last Updated 11th February, 2020
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Rules for Medical Attendance and Treatment Framed Under Regulation 16 of the Assam State E...
1.
(a)
All employees of the Board and the members of their families shall be entitled to free medical service as is provided
hereinafter.
(b)
Such medical service shall not, however, be available to an employee who is covered by a contributory health service
scheme under the Employees' State Insurance Act, 1948.
(c)
Temporary and casual employees and probationers shall be entitled to such medical service so long as their service
under the Board continues and not thereafter except to such extent as may be decided by the Board in any special case.
2.
(a)
All employees of the Board shall be entitled to medical attendance, free of charge, by the authorised medical practitioner
in his consulting from or in the employees' residence according to the circumstances of each case.
(b)
If the authorised medical practitioner is of opinion that the case of a patient is of such a serious or special nature as to
require medical attendance by some person other than himself, he may, with the approval of the Board or a competent
authority (which shall be obtained before hand unless the delay involved entails danger to the health of the patient)-
(i)
send the patient to the nearest specialist or other medical officer (in the State) by whom, in his opinion, medical
attendance is required for the patient;
(ii)
if the patient is too ill to travel, summon such specialist or other medical officer to attend upon the patient.
Explanation. - Medical attendance shall include such methods of examination for the purpose of diagnosis as the
authorised medical practitioner certifies to be necessary.
(c)
All expenses incurred in connection with the examination of the patient including attendance by a specialist shall be
reimbursed by the Board on production of a certificate in writing by the authorised medical practitioner.
3.
(a)
All employees of the Board shall be entitled to receive medical treatment, free of cost, at their place of residence, or in
the private consulting room of the authorised medical practitioner, or in such hospitals approved by the Board as may be
recommended by the said medical practitioner.
(b)
The cost of medical treatment of the employee considered essential for the recovery of the patient shall be reimbursed
by the Board on production of vouchers certified by the said medical practitioner.
4.
When an employee who falls ill is required to travel beyond five miles from his residence in connection with his medical
treatment or attendance, he shall be entitled to travelling allowance for the journeys performed at such rates as the
Board may decide.
5.
The members of the family of an employee who is a permanent employee or in the continuous service under the Board
for not less than one year shall be entitled to medical attendance in the consulting room of the authorised medical
practitioner and treatment free of cost in the approved hospital, when such treatment is considered essential by the
authorised medical practitioner, except that the confinement pre-natal and post-natal treatment of a female member of
the family, shall not be responsibility of the Board.
6.
Notwithstanding anything stated above no employee or any member of his family shall be entitled to treatment for more
than a continuous period of six months, but the Board may, by special order extend this period in any particular case.
7.
Medical treatment in these rules shall not be deemed to include dental treatment or eye testing or cost of spectacles.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Rules for Medical Attendance and Treatment Framed Under Regulation 16 of the Assam State E...
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3