
----- PAGE 1 -----
Rules for the Administration of Justice and Police in the Sibsagar, Nowgong and Mikir Hill...
Rules for the Administration of Justice and Police in the Sibsagar,
Nowgong and Mikir Hills Tracts (Mikir Hills)
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/22977829/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Assam - Act
Rules for the Administration of Justice and Police in the Sibsagar, Nowgong and Mikir Hills Tracts (Mikir Hills)
ASSAM
India
Rules for the Administration of Justice and Police in the Sibsagar, Nowgong and Mikir Hills Tracts (Mikir Hills)
Rule
RULES-FOR-THE-ADMINISTRATION-OF-JUSTICE-AND-POLICE-IN-THE-SIBSAGAR-NOWGONG-AND-MIKIR-HILLS
-TRACTS-MIKIR-HILLS of 1937
Published on 29 March 1937
Commenced on 29 March 1937
[This is the version of this document from 29 March 1937.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Rules for the Administration of Justice and Police in the Sibsagar, Nowgong and Mikir Hills Tracts (Mikir Hills)
Published vide Notification No. 2617-A.P., dated 29th March, 1937
Last Updated 10th February, 2020
Notification No. 2617-A.P. Under the powers vested in him by Section 6 of the Scheduled Districts Act XIV of 1874, the
governor is pleased to prescribe the following rules for the Administration of Justice and Police in the Sibsagar,
Nowgong and Mikir Hills Tracts. This cancels all previous orders on the subject.
I-General
Page 1/8
----- PAGE 2 -----
Rules for the Administration of Justice and Police in the Sibsagar, Nowgong and Mikir Hill...
1.
The Administration of Mikir Hills is vested in the Governor, Deputy Commissioner of the United District of Mikir and North
Cachar Hills and his Assistants, the mauzadars, gaonburas, sardars, dolois and other village authorities or such other
classes of officers as the Governor may see fit, from time to time, to appoint in that behalf, subject to the exceptions,
restrictions and rules hereinafter recorded.
1A.
The Governor may, when he thinks fit, appoint an Additional Deputy Commissioner, either generally, or for the trial of a
particular case or particular cases, civil or criminal, and may direct that such Additional Deputy Commissioner shall, for
the general or special purposes aforesaid, exercise all or any of the powers of the Deputy Commissioner.
1B.
The High Court may, for any reason which it considers proper, transfer any original case whether civil or criminal, at any
stage when it is pending or under trial before any Court, to any other Court competent to try it.
1C.
In these Rules-
(1)
"Mikir Hills" means the Mikir Hills Autonomous Districts comprising of the tribal areas within the boundaries defined in
Notification No. TAD/R-31/50/151, dated 13th April, 1951.
(2)
The term "Deputy Commissioners" and "their Assistants" wherever they occur, shall be read as "Deputy Commissioner"
and "his Assistants" respectively.
II-Police
2.
The police of the Mikir Hills shall consist of-
(a)
Regular police subject to Act V of 1861 At.
(b)
Rural police, consisting of mauzadars, gaonburas, and other village authorities recognized as such by the Deputy
Commissioner.
2A.
Rural police shall not be deemed to be police officers for the purposes of Section 26 of the Indian Evidence Act or
Section 162 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.
3.
The control of the police of the Mikir Hills is vested in the Deputy Commissioner acting under the orders of the Governor
or Assam and in such other officers as the Governor may, from time to time, appoint. Misconduct on the part of the
regular police shall be punishable in accordance with Act V of 1861, the Penal Code or any other enactment to which
they may be subject. Misconduct on the part of the rural police is punishable by dismissal or by fine, which may extend
to Rs. 500, or imprisonment to an extent which would be awardable under the Penal Code for a like offence.
Imprisonment may be awarded in lieu of fine, but only by the Deputy Commissioner or other person duly authorised.
4.
An appeal lies from all orders of mauzadars, gaonburas and other village authorities in police matters to the Deputy
Commissioner whose orders are final. But the Governor may call for the proceedings of any officer subordinate to him
and modify or reverse any order should he think fit.
5.
The ordinary rules of the police shall, as far as they are applicable, be observed by the regular police and all returns in
matters of accounts and all registers required to be kept by the police, as far as they are applicable, shall be made and
kept up.
The Inspector General of Police, Assam, shall exercise the powers of Inspector-General in the Mikir Hills.
6.
The regular police shall only act when required to do so by general or special order of the Inspector-General of Police or
Deputy Commissioner or other officer duly authorised, who may assign to the force any portion of the duties of police
under Act V of 1861 in any locality.
Page 2/8
----- PAGE 3 -----
Rules for the Administration of Justice and Police in the Sibsagar, Nowgong and Mikir Hill...
7.
The ordinary duties of police shall be discharged by muzadars, gaonburas and other village authorities. They shall arrest
all criminals and repress all disorders within their respective jurisdictions.
8.
It is the duty of the mauzadars, gaonburas or other chief village authorities to report to the Deputy Commissioner or his
Assistants, all crimes, violent deaths or serious accidents, occurring in their jurisdiction and all occurrences whether
within or beyond their jurisdiction, which may come to their knowledge, likely to affect the public peace, at the earliest
possible moment, and to deliver up offenders to the officer authorised to try them as soon as may be within a period of
twenty-four hours of arrest excluding the time necessary for the journey from the place of arrest to the Court of such
officer.
9.
The mauzadars, gaonburas and village authorities shall watch, report and, under the orders of the Deputy
Commissioner, apprehend and deliver up all vagrants or bad and suspicious characters found in their jurisdictions.
10.
On the occurrence of any heinous crime in his district, any village officer, who may be by custom or appointment
charged with the duty of arresting criminals, shall at once apprehended the offender, if able, and in any case at once
report to the mauzadar or gaonbura who, if the offender has not been apprehended, will proceed without delay to the
place where the crime occurred and enquire into the matter.
If a crime beyond his cognizance has been committed, he will immediately report it to the Deputy Commissioner or other
duly authorised officer, whether the Offender has been apprehended or not.
11.
Mauzadars, gaonburas and other village authorities may pursue with hue and cry an offender, fleeing beyond their
jurisdiction and arrest him, but ordinarily no mauzadar, gaonbura or other village authority shall attempt to arrest an
offender beyond his own jurisdiction without the cognizance and cooperation of the mauzadar, gaonbura or chief village
authority of the jurisdiction to which the offender has fled. When an offender is traced from one jurisdiction to another, it
will be sufficient to point him out to the mauzadar, gaonbura or other competent authority of the village to which the
offender has fled, and request him to make the arrest.
12.
When the mauzadar, gaonbura or other chief village authorities feel unable to arrest an offender, they must apply to the
Deputy Commissioner, or his Assistants or any officer duly authorized, to grant them such aid as he or such officer may
consider necessary.
13.
The mauzadars, gaonburas and other chief village authorities are empowered to arrest or cause .to be arrested, and
may also fine, all drunkards and other disorderly persons found brawling out of their houses, and all persons found
gambling; the fine not to exceed that awardable under their powers in criminal matters as hereinafter defined.
14.
All the inhabitants of the Mikir Hills who are under the administrative control of the Deputy Commissioner, are bound to
aid the regular police and village authorities, when required to do so in the maintenance of order, or the apprehension of
offenders. Any person failing to do so is liable to fine, the fine to be adjudged by the mauzadar, gaonbura or other chief
village authority, to the extent he is empowered to award in criminal cases or by the Deputy Commissioner if fine beyond
the amount those officers are authorised to impose is considered necessary. When the particular persons blamable for
failure to aid in any community cannot be ascertained, the mauzadar, gaonbura or chief village authority shall be
considered responsible, and if it appears that the community is to blame and that particular offender cannot be
discovered, a fine may be imposed upon the community, but by the Deputy Commissioner only.
III-Criminal Justice
15.
Criminal justice shall be ordinarily administered by the Deputy Commissioner, his Assistants, and by the mauzadars,
gaonburas, and other chief village authorities of the different communities.
16.
The Deputy Commissioner shall be competent to pass sentence of death, transportation, or imprisonment up to the
maximum amount provided for the offence, of whipping and of a fine up to any amount:
Page 3/8
----- PAGE 4 -----
Rules for the Administration of Justice and Police in the Sibsagar, Nowgong and Mikir Hill...
Provided that all sentences of death, transportation or imprisonment of seven years and upwards shall be subject to the
confirmation by the High Court.
The High Court or the Deputy Commissioner may call for the proceedings of any officer subordinate to him and reduce,
enhance or cancel any sentence passed or remand the case for re-trial, but no offender shall be punished by a
.sentence exceeding that awardable under the Indian Penal Code. Assistants to the Deputy Commissioner shall
exercise such powers, not exceeding those of a Magistrate of the First Class as defined in the Criminal Procedure Code
as they may be invested with by the Governor.
16A.
When the Deputy Commissioner passes sentence of death, the proceeding shall be submitted to the High Court and the
sentence shall not be excluded unless it is confirmed by the High Court.
16B.
The Deputy Commissioner shall inform the accused of the period (namely 7 days) within which, if he wishes to appeal,
his appeal should be preferred.
16C.
In any case submitted under Rule 16-A the High Court-
(a)
may confirm the sentence or pass any other sentence warranted by law, or
(b)
may annual the conviction and convict the accused of any offence of which the Deputy Commissioner might have
convicted him, or order a new trial on the same or on amended charge, or
(c)
may acquit the accused person:
Provided that no order of confirmation shall be made under this clause until the period allowed for preferring an appeal
has expired, or, if an appeal is presented within such period, until such appeal is disposed of.
16D.
When a sentence of death passed by the Deputy Commissioner is submitted to the High Court for confirmation, the
Deputy Commissioner shall, on receiving the order of confirmation or other order of the High Court thereon, cause such
order to be carried into effect by issuing a warrant in the form given in Schedule V, No. XXXV of the Criminal Procedure
Code, or some similar form, or taking such other steps as may be necessary.
16E.
The Deputy Commissioner shall fix the time and place of execution, and the time fixed shall not be less than 21 or more
than 28 days from the date of issue of warrant.
17.
Any mauzadar, gaonbura or other chief village authority may be empowered by the Deputy Commissioner to dispose of
the cases of the cases of persons charged with any of the following offences :
Injury to property not exceeding Rs. 50.
Injury to person not affecting life or limb.
House-trespass.
Theft.
They may impose a fine for any offence they are competent to try to the extent of Rs. 50. They may award restitution or
compensation to the extent of the injury sustained and enforce it by distraint of the property of the offender. In cases in
which the fine is not paid or realised either in whole or in part, they shall represent the facts and send in the offenders to
the Deputy Commissioner or any of his Assistants who may retry the case and impose such other punishment as he is
competent to inflict. All mauzadars, gaonburas or other chief village authority who may be empowered as above shall
receive a sanad or recognition under the signature of the Deputy Commissioner.
18.
Mauzadars, gaonburas or other duly recognised village authorities may carry out their decision or order attachment of
property as soon as judgement is pronounced, but in no case is property attached be sold if the party convicted claims
to appeal within thirty days, without the orders of the Deputy Commissioner or one of his Assistants.
Mauzadars, gaonburas or other duly recognised village authorities may not decide cases-
(a)
Page 4/8
----- PAGE 5 -----
Rules for the Administration of Justice and Police in the Sibsagar, Nowgong and Mikir Hill...
where their fathers, mothers, sons, daughters, wives of the children, husbands, or wives of any of these are concerned;
or
(b)
where the defendant is not a native of the Mikir Hills or is not resident within their jurisdiction;or
(c)
when the offence is one against the State, or has caused death or danger of life, or amounts to robbery or concerns
counterfeiting of coin, or making of fraudulent documents, or the like.
19.
The mauzadars, gaonburas or other duly recognised village authorities shall decide all cases in open Darbar in
presence of at least three witnesses and the complainant and accused, whose attendance they are empowered to
compel. Either party may appeal from the decision at the time decision is pronounced, or within thirty days thereof, to the
Deputy Commissioner or one of his Assistants, in which case mauzadar, gaonbura or other duly recognised authority
will take the parties or cause them to be sent before the Deputy Commissioner or his Assistants together with the
persons required to attend as witnesses. The case shall then be fired de novo.
20.
An appeal lies to the Deputy Commissioner from the decision of his Assistants if preferred within thirty days :
Provided that no appeal shall lie against the sentence of fine only passed by a Magistrate of the First Class when the
amount of fine does not exceed Rs. 50.
21.
An appeal shall lie to the High Court from any sentence passed by the Deputy Commissioner or Additional Deputy
Commissioner.
All appeals must be presented within thirty days of the date of the orders appealed against, excluding the time required
for procuring a copy of the order:
Provided that an appeal from a sentence of death shall be preferred within seven days from the date of the sentence.
21A.
The Governor may direct an appeal to be presented to the High Court from an original or appellate order of acquittal
passed by any Court other than the High Court.
Such an appeal shall be presented within ninety days from the date of the order of acquittal excluding the time needed
for obtaining a copy of the order.
21B.
(1)
Whenever, in the course of an inquiry, trial or other proceeding under these rules, it appears to the High Court or the
Court of the Deputy Commissioner that the examination of a witness is necessary for the ends of justice, and that the
attendance of such witness cannot be procured without an amount of delay, expense or inconvenience which, under the
circumstances of the case, would be unreasonable, such Court may dispense with such attendance and may issue a
commission for the examination of the witnesses following the spirit of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898.
(2)
Whenever in the course of the inquiry, trial or other proceeding under these rules before the Court of an Additional
Deputy Commissioner, or an Assistant to the Deputy Commissioner, it appears that a commission ought to be issued for
the examination of a witness whose evidence is necessary for the ends of justice and that the attendance of such
witness cannot be procured without on amount of delay, expense or inconvenience which, under the circumstances of
the case, would be unreasonable, such Court shall apply to the Deputy Commissioner stating the reasons for the
application and the Deputy Commissioner may either issue a commission or reject the application.
21C.
Whenever a commission for the examination of a witness issued under the preceding rule or under any law for the time
being in force in the rest of India is received by the Deputy Commissioner, he, or such of his Assistants having the
powers of a Magistrate of the First Class as he may appoint in this behalf, shall execute and return the commission
following the spirit of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898.
22.
The procedure of the High Court, and the Deputy Commissioner and his Assistants shall be in the spirit of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, as far as it is applicable to the circumstances of the tracts and consistent with these rules. The
Page 5/8
----- PAGE 6 -----
Rules for the Administration of Justice and Police in the Sibsagar, Nowgong and Mikir Hill...
Chief exceptions are:
(a)
Only verbal order of notice or summons shall be requisite, except when the regular police are employed or the person
concerned is not a resident of or in the district at the time; or if in the district, but resident beyond it, where his place of
abode is not known. But verbal order or summons shall be for a fixed day, and the order shall be made known to the
person affected or to some adult member of his family or proclaimed at the place he was last known to be at, in sufficient
time to allow him, if he sees fit, to appear.
(b)
A note of the substance of all the proceedings in cases tried before them must be kept by the Deputy Commissioner and
his Assistants in the form prescribed by Section 263 of Act V of 1898. In cases requiring a sentence exceeding three
days, a full note of the evidence and proceedings must be kept. Examinations and proceedings shall generally be
recorded in English only.
(c)
The proceedings of mauzadars, gaonburas or other duly recognised village authorities need not be in writing, but if at
the trial before the village authorities any person who can write can be found, a brief note of the proceedings is to be
made.
(d)
All fines levied by mauzadars, gaonburas or other duly recognised village authorities shall be paid to the Deputy
Commissioner or his Assistants or other officers empowered to receive them, within eight days from the date of
realization.
(e)
It shall be discretionary to examine witnesses on oath in any form, or to warm them that they are liable to the
punishment for perjury if they state that which they know to be false.
For the defence of paupers accused of murder, Rules 19 to 21 of Assam Law department Manual-Part II-Criminal
Rules-shall be followed mutatis mutandis.
23A.
(a)
The President or the Governor may, either upon conditions or without conditions, suspend the execution of any
sentence or remit any punishment.
(b)
If any sentence has been suspended or remitted upon conditions, and in the opinion of the President or the Governor,
as the case may be, those conditions are not fulfilled, the President or the Governor, may cancel the remission and
order the sentence to be carried out, and the person in whose favour the sentence had been suspended or remitted,
may, if at large, be arrested by any police officer without warrant and remanded to undergo the unexpired portion of the
sentence.
23B.
The President or the Governor may commute any of the following sentences for any other mentioned after it:
death, confiscation of property, imprisonment, whipping, fine.
IV-Civil Rules
23.
The Administration of Civil Justice in the Mikir Hills is entrusted to the Deputy Commissioner, his Assistants, mauzadars,
gaonburas and other chief village authorities.
24.
Mauzadars, gaonburas and other chief village authorities may be recognised by the Deputy Commissioner by sanad
under his signature as empowered to try cases without limit as to amount, but with the following reservations:
(a)
They may not try suits in which their fathers, mothers, sons daughters, uncles, aunts, sisters, brothers, the children of
foregoing, their wives or persons in the above relation to a wife, or any near relative are parties, nor suits in which any
person who does not belong to a Scheduled Tribe specified in Item 1 of Part I-Assam of the Schedule to the Constitution
(Scheduled Tribes) Order, 1950 resident in the Mikir Hills or is a native of another village or resident in their jurisdiction
is a party;
Page 6/8
----- PAGE 7 -----
Rules for the Administration of Justice and Police in the Sibsagar, Nowgong and Mikir Hill...
(b)
All suits must be decided in open Darbar in the presence of the parties and at least three respectable witnesses.
25.
Mauzadars, gaonburas and other duly recognised village authorities have power to compel attendance of parties to any
suits and their witnesses-all such persons being resident within their own jurisdiction-and to fine within the limit of Rs.
50, to persons wilfully failing to attend. They have power to award all costs, also compensation of defendants for
unfounded or vexatious suits brought against them.
26.
All proceedings shall be viva voce and the mauzadars, gaonburas or other duly recognised village authorities shall not
be called upon to make either record or registry of their decision. After hearing both parties and their witnesses (if any)
they shall, with or without the opinion of assessors, as they think fit, pronounce a decision forthwith. But if, at the trial any
person who can write can be found, a brief note of the proceedings is to be made.
27.
Mauzadars, gaonburas or other duly recognised village authorities may carry out their decisions at once, and order
attachment of property to be made, but in no case is property so attached to be sold if the party claims to appeal within
thirty days. On such appeal being made they shall send the parties and their witnesses to the Deputy Commissioner or
one of his Assistants forthwith, or as soon as may be, and either accompany them or send one respectable person who
has been present at the trial with them.
28.
All notices given by mauzadars, gaonburas and other duly recognised village authorities to parties or witnesses may be
verbal, and for a fixed day not exceeding thirty days from the day it is given. If a case be postponed, it shall be fixed for a
day not exceeding eight days from the order, and the case may subsequently be adjourned for a period not exceeding
eight days on good cause shown.
29.
The Deputy Commissioner and his Assistants shall not ordinarily hear suits triable by mauzadars, gaonburas or other
duly recognised village authorities, but they have a discretion to do so when they think right; and suits, which under
these rules the village authorities cannot try, must be tried by the Deputy Commissioner, or his Assistants. A register of
all suits tried by the Deputy Commissioner and his assistants shall be kept in such form as the High Court shall direct.
30.
The Deputy Commissioner and his Assistants shall in all cases in which the parties belong to a Scheduled Tribes
specified in Item 1 or Part I-Assam, of the Schedule to the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order, 1950 resident in the
Mikir Hills endeavour to induce them to submit their case to a Panchayat. If they agree to this, each party shall name an
equal number of arbitrator, and shall choose, or leave the arbitrators to choose, an umpire. The names and residence of
arbitrators and umpire and the matter in dispute, must be recorded before the proceedings commence, and the Court
will direct the mauzadars, gaonbura or other recognized authority to assemble the Panchayat and witnesses within eight
days. When the case has been decided, the umpire shall appear with the parties before the Court which shall proceed to
record the decision and enforce it as its own. From such decision there shall be no appeal.
31.
An appeal shall lie from the decision of the mauzadar, gaonbura or other duly recognized village authority to the Deputy
Commissioner, or his Assistant. A record shall be made of the matter in dispute and the decision of the village
authorities. If necessary, the Court shall examine the parties and if the decision appears to be just, shall affirm and
enforce it as one of its own. If the Court sees reason to doubt the justice of the decision, it will try the case de novo, or
refer it to a panchayat as above.
32.
Houses of house-tax-paying hill-men, need full clothing, cooking utensils, or implements whereby the owner subsists,
may not be attached, sold or transferred, in execution of a decree, unless themselves by the subject of the suit.
33.
There shall be no imprisonment for debt excepting in cases where the Deputy Commissioner is satisfied that fraudulent
disposal or concealment of the property has taken place; in such cases the debtor may be detained for a period not
exceeding six months.
34.
Page 7/8
----- PAGE 8 -----
Rules for the Administration of Justice and Police in the Sibsagar, Nowgong and Mikir Hill...
The High Court or Deputy Commissioner may, on application or otherwise, call for the proceedings of any case decided
by any officer subordinate to him and pass such orders as he may deem fit.
An appeal shall lie to the Deputy Commissioner against the decision of any of his Assistants, and to the High Court
against an original decision of the Deputy Commissioner, if the value of the suit be Rs. 500 or over, or if the suit involves
a question of tribal rights or customs, or of right to or possession of immovable property:
Provided that the petition of appeal accompanied by a copy of the order appealed against and by a clear statement of
the grounds of appeal be filed within 30 days from the date of decision excluding the time required for obtaining a copy
of the decision.
An appeal which lies to the High Court may be presented to the Deputy Commissioner, who shall, if it be in order and
presented in due time endorse upon it the date of receipt and transmit it with the records of the case to the High Court.
The decree of the appellate Court shall be transferred to the Court passing the original order for execution as a decree
of its own.
35.
The High Court and the Courts, of the Deputy Commissioner or Additional Deputy Commissioner and his Assistants
shall be guided by the spirit, but not be bound by the letters, of the Code of Civil Procedure.
36.
[Omitted].
37.
It shall be discretionary to examine witnesses on oath in any form, or to warn them that they are liable to the punishment
for perjury, if they state that which they know to be false.
38.
Although the Indian Limitation Act 1908 (Act IX of 1908) has been barred by Notification No. 5868 A.P. dated the 8th
September, 1934, the principles of the Act should be closely followed in disputes between persons not belonging to a
Scheduled Tribe or Tribes specified in Items 1 and 2 of Part I-Assam, of the Schedule to the Constitution (Schedule
Tribes), Order, 1950.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 8/8