
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Assam Commissioners Powers Distribution Act, 1939
The Assam Commissioners Powers Distribution Act, 1939
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/16535315/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
1
]
State of Assam - Act
The Assam Commissioners Powers Distribution Act, 1939
ASSAM
India
The Assam Commissioners Powers Distribution Act, 1939
Act 1 of 1939
Published on 26 April 1939
Commenced on 26 April 1939
[This is the version of this document from 26 April 1939.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Assam Commissioners Powers Distribution Act, 1939
(Assam Act
No. 1 of 1939
)
Last Updated 11th February, 2020
Published in the Assam Gazette, dated the 26th April, 1939.
(Received the assent of the Governor on the 22nd April, 7939)
An Act for the distribution of powers of the Commissioners of Divisions in Assam
Preamble. - Whereas the Secretary of State has sanctioned the abolition of the post of the Commissioners, Surma
Valley and Hill Division ;
And whereas the Governor of Assam has appointed the Commissioner, Assam Valley Division, to exercise jurisdiction in
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Assam Commissioners Powers Distribution Act, 1939
certain matters in the Surma Valley and Hill Division ;
And whereas, as a measures of relief to the Commissioner, Assam Valley Division, it is expedient to transfer his
appellate and revisional powers in Revenue matters to the Assam Revenue Tribunal and to distribute between the
Provincial Government and the Deputy Commissioners or such other authorities as the Provincial Government may
direct certain functions hitherto exercised by the Commissioners under the Assam Local Self-Government Act, 1915 and
the Assam Municipal Act, 1923 ;
It is hereby enacted as follows :
1.
Short title, commencement and local extent.
(1)
This Act may be called the Assam Commissioners' Powers Distribution Act, 1939.
(2)
It shall come into force on the 1st April, 1939.
(3)
It extends to the whole of Assam.
2.
Jurisdiction of the Commissioner, Assam Valley Division, in the Surma Valley and Hill Division.
- Subject to the next succeeding section, after the commencement of this Act all powers and jurisdictions in civil, criminal
and revenue matters which have heretofore been exercised by the Commissioner, Surma Valley and Hill Division, shall
be deemed to be transferred to Commissioner, Assam Valley Division, or to such other authority as the Governor may
direct.
3.
Construction of certain references in enactments, etc., in force in the Commissionerships.
(1)
Subject to the next succeeding sub-section and to Section 5 of this Act, all enactments made by any authority in India
and all notifications, orders, schemes, rules, forms and by-laws issued, made or prescribed under such enactment,
which immediately before the commencement of this Act, were in force in, or prescribed for, and of the territories in the
Surma Valley and Hill Division, shall in their application to such territories as aforesaid be construed as if references
therein to the authorities mentioned in column I of Schedule A were references to the authority mentioned opposite
thereto in column 2 of the said Schedule.
Commissioner's jurisdiction in Revenue appeals and revisions barred. - (2) Notwithstanding anything in the preceding
sub-section the Commissioner, Assam Valley Division, shall not have jurisdiction to entertain appeals or revise decisions
in Revenue cases arising in the Assam Valley Division or in the Surma Valley and Hill Division. Any such jurisdiction as
was immediately before the commencement of this Act vested in the Commissioner of a Division shall, after the
commencement of this Act, be exercised by the tribunal constituted under Section 296 of the Government of India Act,
1935.
4.
Validity of certain Acts and adaptation of laws.
(1)
Without prejudice to the continuation of validity of any notification, appointment, orders, schemes, rules, regulations,
forms, by-laws or directions issued or determination made by the Commissioner of a Division under any enactment in
force in either or both of the two Commissionership of Assam before the commencement of this Act, the Governor of
Assam may, by notification in the Official Gazette at any time and from time to time after the commencement of this Act,
direct that the provisions of any enactments in force as aforesaid shall, until amended, altered or repealed by a
competent legislature or other competent authority, be amended, altered, or repealed in such manner as may appear to
the Governor to be necessary or expedient to bring them into accord with the provisions of this Act and all notifications,
appointments, orders, schemes, rules, regulations, forms, by-laws or directions issued, made or prescribed under or with
reference to any such enactments shall, except as otherwise provided, be construed as having effect subject to the
adaptation, alteration on repeal made in the aforesaid manner. Any such notification made by the Governor shall have
effect as if enacted in this Act.
(2)
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Assam Commissioners Powers Distribution Act, 1939
Pending the issue of notification as provided in the preceding sub-section it shall be lawful for the Governor to issue from
time to time such orders, the same being consistent with the provisions of this Act as may appear to the Governor
necessary or expedient for the exercise of the powers and the performance of duties of the Commissioner, Surma Valley
and Hill Division by the Commissioner, Assam Valley Division, or such other authority as the Governor may direct.
5.
Amendment of Acts.
- The enactments specified in Schedule B are hereby amended to the extent in the manner specified in the fourth
column thereof.
A
[See Section 3 (1)]
Construction of enactments, etc., in force in the territories comprised with in the Commissionership of Assam
1Reference
2Constructions
1. Commissioner
Commissioner, Assam Valley Division, or such other authority
as the Governor may direct.
2. Commissioner of a (or the) Division
3. Commissioner, Surma Valley and Hill Division
B
[See Section 5]
1Year
2No.
3Short title
4Amendments
1897
X
The General Clauses Act
In Section 3(13) after the words "a Division" the
words "and shall include the Assam Revenue Tribunal while
exercising jurisdiction heretofore exercised by a Commissioner in
appeals and revision in Revenue cases" shall be inserted.
1915
II
The Assam General Clauses Act
In Section 3(13), after the words "a Division" the
words "and shall include the Assam Revenue Tribunal while
exercising jurisdiction heretofore exercised by a Commissioner in
appeals and revisions in Revenue cases" shall be inserted.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3