
----- PAGE 1 -----
Assam Home Guards Act, 1947
Assam Home Guards Act, 1947
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/75179418/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
14
]
State of Assam - Act
Assam Home Guards Act, 1947
ASSAM
India
Assam Home Guards Act, 1947
Act 24 of 1947
Published on 20 December 1947
Commenced on 20 December 1947
[This is the version of this document from 20 December 1947.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Assam Home Guards Act, 1947
(Assam Act
24 of 1947
)
Last Updated 13th February, 2020
[Dated 20.12.1947]
This act has been applied to the Garo Hills district, vide notification No. HPL 2/48/3, Dated the 7th January, 1948 subject
to certain modifications the Act has also been applied to the former Khasi States including the Shillong administered
Areas, vide Notification No. SK.57/48/18, Dated the 21st June 1949.
An Act to provide for the constitution of Home Guards.
Preamble. - Whereas it is expedient to provided a volunteer body called the Home Guards to supplement the ordinary
Page 1/6
----- PAGE 2 -----
Assam Home Guards Act, 1947
police force in certain parts of the Province;
It is hereby enacted as follows: -
1.
Short title extent and 1947.
(1)
This Act may be called the Assam Home Guards act, 1947.
(2)
It extends to the whole of Assam.
(3)
It shall come into force
(i)
In any revenue district or part thereof on such date as the [State Government]
[Substituted by the adaptation of Laws Order, 1950 for 'Provincial Government'.]
may by notification appoint, and
(ii)
at once in the districts of Goalpara, Kamrup, Silchar and Karimganj.
2.
Definition.
- In this Act unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context
(a)
"Home guards" means a person who is appointed as such under this Act;
(b)
"Prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this Act.
3.
Raising of Home guards.
- (i) In any revenue district of part thereof in which Act is in force the [State Government]
[Substituted by the adaptation of Laws Order, 1950 for 'Provincial Government'.]
may raise in such manner has may be prescribed home guards who shall discharge such duties in relation to the
protection of the Public safety or convenience as may assigned to them in accordance with the provisions of this Act and
the rules made there under.
(ii)
The Home Guards in the [state]
[Substituted by the A.C. 1950 for 'Provincial'.]
shall, for the purpose of this Act, be deemed to be single force and the members thereof shall be formally appointed;
and such force shall consist of such number of officers and as may be ordered by the [State Government]
[Substituted by the adaptation of Laws Order, 1950 for 'Provincial Government'.]
.
4.
Subordination and superintendence.
(1)
Subject to sub-Section (2) of section 3 there shall be a commandant-general of the Home Guards and for every revenue
district, or part thereof, in which this Act is in force and or more Commandants subordinate to him and such other
officers subordinate to them as may be necessary.
(2)
The superintendence of the Home Guards throughout Assam shall vest in and shall be exercise by the (State
Government) through the Inspector General of Police of the (state) in such manner and to such extent as may be
prescribed.
(3)
The administration of the Home Guards throughout Assam shall vest in the Commandant General and in every revenue
district or part thereof as the [State Government]
[Substituted by the adaptation of Laws Order, 1950 for 'Provincial Government'.]
Page 2/6
----- PAGE 3 -----
Assam Home Guards Act, 1947
may decide, in one or more Commandants.
5.
Appointment of officers.
(1)
The Commandant General shall be appointed by the [State Government]
[Substituted by the adaptation of Laws Order, 1950 for 'Provincial Government'.]
.
(2)
The appointment of any Home Guards to an office of command subordinate to that of the Commandant General shall be
made in such manner as may be prescribed.
6.
Appointment of H. Gs.
(1)
Subject to the provisions of the Act and to the rules made there under any person willing to serve as a Home Guards
and possessing such qualifications as may be prescribed may be appointed a Home Guard.
(2)
The appointment of Home Guards shall be made in such manner and by such authority as may be prescribed.
(3)
(a)
Every Officer and every man of the Home Guard shall receive on his appointment a certificate in the form annexed to
this Set under the seal of the Commandant in the case of men, by virtue of which the person holding such certificate
shall be vested with the powers and privileges of a Home guard.
(b)
Such certificate shall cease to have effect whenever the person named in it cease to be a Home guard and on his so
ceasing shall within ten days be surrendered by him to the Commandant General if he is an Officer and to the
Commandant in all other cases.
7.
Duties and Training of H. Gs.
(1)
Subject to any rule made in this behalf it shall be the duty of every Home Guard promptly to obey and execute all orders
issued to him by any competent authority, to collect and communicate to his immediate superior intelligence affecting
the public safety and to prevent the commission of offences against person or property.
(2)
Subject to any rule made in this behalf it shall be the duty of every Home Guard may be required to undergo for a period
of not more then two moths such training as may be prescribed after which he shall serve as a Home Guards for period
of six months which period may be extended by the [State Government]
[Substituted by the adaptation of Laws Order, 1950 for 'Provincial Government'.]
considers such extension necessary and shall thereafter servo in the reserve for a period of three YRS. And while in the
reserve shall be liable to be called out for duty at any time.
8.
Discharge.
(1)
Every Officer and man of the Home Guards shall be entitled to receive his discharge from the Home Guards on the
expiration of his period of service in the reserve; but any such person may before he becomes so entitled be discharged
by such authority and subject to such conditions as may be prescribed.
(2)
The prescribed authority may, subject to such conditions as may be prescribed, dismiss any officer or man from the
Home Guards.
9.
Uniform.
- Officers and men of the Home Guards shall wear such uniform as may be prescribed.
Page 3/6
----- PAGE 4 -----
Assam Home Guards Act, 1947
10.
Calling out H.Gs.
- The district Magistrate having jurisdiction over any revenue district or part thereof in which Home Guards are raise may
by an order made in such manner as may be as prescribed call-out any Home Guard for the discharge of any duty
assigned to the Home Guards in accordance with the provisions of this Act and the rules made thereunder.
11.
Control over H. Gs.
- The Home Guards shall at all times when undergoing training or when called out be under the control and subject to
the orders of their officers, and shall when called out be further subject to the general control of the district Magistrate in
such manner and to such extent as may be prescribed.
12.
Powers and Protection of H.Gs.
(1)
Subjected to the provisions of this or the rules made thereunder a Home Guard when called out under section 10 shall
have the same powers, privileges and protection as an officer of Police appointed under any enactment for the time
being in force.
(2)
No prosecution shall be instituted against a Home Guard in respect of anything done or purporting to be done by him in
the discharge of his duty as a Home Guard, except with the previous sanction of the [State Government]
[Substituted by the adaptation of Laws Order, 1950 for 'Provincial Government'.]
or some officer empowered by the [State Government]
[Substituted by the adaptation of Laws Order, 1950 for 'Provincial Government'.]
in this behalf.
13.
Penalty.
(1)
Every Home Guards who is guilty of any violation of duty or willful breach or neglect of any provision of this Act or
withdraws from the duties of his office without permission or who on being required to undergo training under section 7
or being called out under section 10 without sufficient cause neglects or refuses or refuses to obey the requirement or
the order calling him out, or who is guilty of cowardice or offers any unwarrantable personal violence to any person in his
custody, or who fails within ten days to surrender his certificate under clause (b) of sub-section (3) of section 6, shall be
punishable with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three months or with fine which may
extend to two hundred and fifty rupee or with both.
(2)
An offence punishable under sub-section (2) shall be cognizable.
14.
Power to make rules.
(1)
The [State Government]
[Substituted by the adaptation of Laws Order, 1950 for 'Provincial Government'.]
may make rules for carrying put the purposes of this Act.
(2)
In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power such rules may provide for or regulate all or
any of the following matters, namely -
(a)
All matters which are required by this Act to be prescribed;
(b)
The exercise by the Commandant General or the Commandant or other officer of the Home Guards of the powers
conferred on District Superintendents of Police in Assam;
(c)
the organization, appointment, conditions of service, functions, discipline, arms, accoutrements, clothing and uniform of
Page 4/6
----- PAGE 5 -----
Assam Home Guards Act, 1947
the Home Guards and the manner in which they may be called out for service or required to undergo training; And
(d)
the exercise by a Home guard of any of the powers exercised only under section 12 of this Act.
15.
Home Guard to be a public servant.
- A Home Guard acting in the discharged of his functions under this Act shall be deemed to be a public servant within
the meaning of section 21 of the Indian penal Code (Act XIV of 1860).
Annexure
Form of Certificate
(See Section 6 (3) (a))
Name
Son of
Caste
Resident of
has been appointed an officer/a member of the Home Guards under section 6 (3) (a) of the Assam Home Guards Act,
1947 (Assam act XXIV of 1947). When lawfully on duty, he shall have the same powers, Privileges and protection as an
officer of Police appointed under any enactment for the time being in force.
Date of appointment........
Place.........
Date........
(Seal)
Commandant general of the Home Guard
Commissioner
The 27th September 1948.
No-Ex./Misc./78/47/ 12-Ad. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 92 of the Government of
India Act, 1935, as adopted by the India (provisional Constitution) order, 1947, the Governor of Assam is pleased to
direct that the Assam Home Guards Act, 1947 (Assam Act XXIV of 1947), shall apply to the portion of the Mishmi Hills
District of the Sadiya Frontier Tract as constitution by regulation I of 1948 which falls within the boundaries in Schedule I
subject to the modification mentioned in Schedule II below.
I
North - From a point in latitude 27° 52' 50", longitude 95° 31' 15" approximately on the junction of the GANGO and
Dibang rivers along a straight line to a point 492 on the left bank of the Kundil river, thence due east to point 625 on the
right bank of the Balijan river.
East - Thence down the Balijan River, following the right bank of the western channel of the Balijan river to its
confluence of the Lohit river thence across and down the left bank of the Lohit river to Noa Dehingmukh thence up the
right bank of the Noa Dehing river to a point opposite to the Dirak Hkamukh; thence across the Dirak Hka river and
along its left bank to where this river joins the Sadiya Frontier Tract and the Lakhimpur District boundary.
South - Thence in a westerly direction by the southern edge of the path leading from the village of Choto Dirak (Hkamti)
to the Bormaithang to a point on the Hahkhati Jan about one mile west of the Choto Dirak near where the Hahkhati Jan
turns west wards at height 450; thence by the Hahkhati Jan stream known also as the Dholla and thence the Dangari
Nadi Lower down its course, vide survey of India sheet No. 83M/10 of 1920 to a point where a small channel or khal
connects it with the Ajuka Nadi also known as the Laikajan Lower down its course to the point where the southern end of
the western boundary of Saikhowa Reserve forest is reached.
West - Thence northwards along the western boundary of the Saikhowa Reserve Forest to Rongdoi Ghat of the left bank
of the Brahmaputra river thence up along the left bank of this river across the mouth of the Lohit river to the left bank of
the Dihang river and up the left bank of the Dihang River to the Sisseri at Sisserimukh; thence up the mid-stream of the
Sisseri river to its junction of the Gango river thence across to the left bank of the Gango river; thence along the left bank
of the Gango river to the starting point.
II
Reference to "District Magistrate" shall be read as referring to the "political Officer".
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Page 5/6
----- PAGE 6 -----
Assam Home Guards Act, 1947
Translation
Page 6/6