
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Assam Enhanced Police Disciplinary Powers Act, 1950
The Assam Enhanced Police Disciplinary Powers Act, 1950
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/173968627/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Assam - Act
The Assam Enhanced Police Disciplinary Powers Act, 1950
ASSAM
India
The Assam Enhanced Police Disciplinary Powers Act, 1950
Act 18 of 1950
Published on 26 April 1950
Commenced on 26 April 1950
[This is the version of this document from 26 April 1950.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Assam Enhanced Police Disciplinary Powers Act, 1950
Assam Act
18 of 1950
Last Updated 12th February, 2020
Published in the Assam Gazette, dated the 26th April, 1950.
An Act to provide for the regulation and maintenance of discipline in the Assam Police Forces and the Assam Police
Battalion.
Preamble. - Whereas it is expedient to provide for the regulation and maintenance of discipline in the Assam Police
Forces and the Assam Police Battalion;
It is hereby enacted as follows :
1.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Assam Enhanced Police Disciplinary Powers Act, 1950
Short title, extent and commencement.
(1)
This Act may be called the Assam Enhanced Police Disciplinary Powers Act, 1950.
(2)
It extends to the whole of Assam and applies to all members of Assam Police Forces and Assam Police Battalion
wherever they may be serving.
(3)
It shall come into force at once.
2.
General superintendence and control of the Assam Police Battalion.
- The general superintendence and control of the Assam Police Battalion shall be exercised by such persons or authority
as the State Government may appoint in this behalf, designated as the "Commandant of Assam Police Battalion" and in
the exercise of such superintendence and the control of the person or authority so appointed shall be governed by the
Police Act, 1861 (Act 5 of 1861).
3.
Powers of punishment.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in Section 7(b) of the Police Act, 1861 (Act 5 of 1861) any Police Officer below the
rank of sub-inspector of Police or any member of the Assam Police Battalion below the rank of sub-inspector of Police
who shall discharge his duty in a careless or negligent manner or who by any act of his own shall render himself unfit for
the discharge thereof, may be awarded with the following punishment by the different authorities subject to the
maximum period noted against each :
Authority
Punishment
Maximums Period
(a)(i)
The Special Superintendent of Police, Criminal
Investigation Department or the Deputy Inspector General in
relation to Criminal Investigation Department.
(ii)
The Superintendent of Railway Police in regard
to the Railway Police and Railway Protection Police.
(iii)
The Superintendent of Police in regard to the
District Police Force.
(iv)
The Principal of the Police Training College in
regard to Personnel under training in the College, and
Confinement in the quarter-guard
28 days
(v)
The command of the Assam Police Battalion in
regard to Personnel of the Assam Police Battalion and trainees of
other units under his command for the time being,
(vi)
Any other officer of the rank of Superintendent
of Police in respect of Police personnel under his command.
(b)(i)
Assistant Superintendent of Police and Deputy
Superintendent of Police (i) in regard to District Police Force;
and (ii) Assistant Commandant of the Assam Police Battalion in
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Assam Enhanced Police Disciplinary Powers Act, 1950
regard to personnel of the Assam Police Battalion.
Confinement in the Guard room or lines, punishment drill,
extra guard, fatigue or other duty
7 days.
(ii)
Inspector or subinspector of Police-in-charge of
Circles or Thanas or incharge of independent detachments of the
Assam Police Battalion in regard to the District Police Force
employed in the Circle or Thana or personnel of the Assam Police
Battalion under his command
Confinement in the Guard room or lines, punishment drill,
extra guard, fatigue or other duty
5 days
(2)
In addition to the above, the Commandant of the Assam Police Battalion shall have power to award all other
punishments admissible under Section 7 of the Police Act (Act 5 of 1861).
4.
Effect.
- This Act is in addition to and not derogatory to Police Act, 1861 (Act 5 of 1861).
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3