
----- PAGE 1 -----
Assam Employees' State Insurance (Medical Benefit) Rules, 1958
Assam Employees' State Insurance (Medical Benefit) Rules, 1958
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/142909120/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Assam - Act
Assam Employees' State Insurance (Medical Benefit) Rules, 1958
ASSAM
India
Assam Employees' State Insurance (Medical Benefit) Rules, 1958
Rule ASSAM-EMPLOYEES-STATE-INSURANCE-MEDICAL-BENEFIT-RULES-1958 of 1958
Published on 1 January 1958
Commenced on 1 January 1958
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 1958.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Assam Employees' State Insurance (Medical Benefit) Rules, 1958
Last Updated 12th February, 2020
1.
Short title, extent and commencement.
(1)
These Rules shall be called the Assam Employees' State Insurance (Medical Benefit) Rules, 1958.
(2)
They shall come into force in any area or areas on the date or dates from which Chapter V of the Employees' State
Insurance Act comes into force.
2.
Definitions.
Page 1/7
----- PAGE 2 -----
Assam Employees' State Insurance (Medical Benefit) Rules, 1958
- In these Rules unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context-
(1)
"the Act" means the Employees' State Insurance Act, 1948 (34 of 1948);
(2)
"Director of Health Service" means the Principal Medical Officer appointed by the State Government to administer
medical benefit in the State;
(3)
"Drugs" includes all medicines for internal or external use of human beings and all substances intended to be used for or
in the treatment, mitigation or prevention of disease in human beings;
(4)
"medical practitioner" means a person holding a qualification granted by any authority specified or notified under Section
3 of the Indian Medical Degrees Act, 1916 (7 of 1916), or specified in the Schedule to the Indian Medical Council Act,
1933 (32 of 1933), or a person registered or eligible for registration in a medical register of the statement for the
registration of persons practicing allopathic, modern or scientific system of medicine;
(5)
"miscarriage" means expulsion of the contents of a pregnant uterus at any period prior to or during the twenty-sixth week
of pregnancy;
(6)
"State Insurance dispensary" means a dispensary established in a separate building or part of an existing dispensary,
hospital or any other building set apart for the exclusive use of insured persons either during all hours or during certain
specified hours; provided that in the latter case drugs are maintained and dispensed separately in accordance with
these Rules;
(7)
"State Insurance Medical Formulary" means a list of prescriptions and injections laid down by the Corporation from time
to time;
(8)
"State Government" means the Government of the State of Assam;
(9)
All other words and expressions used herein and not defined shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Act, the
rule made under Section 95 or the regulations under Section 97 as the case may be.
Part II
3.
Establishment of State Insurance dispensaries.
- The State Government shall establish one or more State Insurance dispensaries for the medical treatment of insured
persons at any place where there is a concentration of not less than one thousand insured persons, with a whole time or
part time Medical Officer-in-charge as the State Government may think suitable according to the concentration of
insured persons.
4.
Provision of medical benefit where there are no State Insurance dispensaries.
- The State Government shall make arrangements for providing medical treatment to insured person residing at places
where there are no State Insurance dispensaries within a reasonable distance :
(a)
by making arrangements for a mobile dispensary to visit a central spot near the places of residence of such persons;
(b)
by making arrangements for an Insurance Medical Officer to visit any specified dispensary in the area for any part of the
day;
(c)
by making arrangements for the treatment of such persons by part-time Insurance Medical Officers appointed for the
purpose; or
(d)
by making arrangements for the provision of such treatment at any hospital, dispensary, clinic or other institution
Page 2/7
----- PAGE 3 -----
Assam Employees' State Insurance (Medical Benefit) Rules, 1958
maintained by the State Government, a local body a private institution or a private individual on such terms as may be
agreed to by the Corporation.
5.
Medical service provided by employers.
- Where an employer is providing medical services not lower than those provided to insured persons by the State
Government, arrangements may be made for the continuance of such services for providing medical benefit to insured
persons under such terms and conditions as may be agreed upon between the Government, the Corporation and the
Employer.
6.
Separate hospitals or beds.
- The State Government may also establish separate hospitals or other medical institutions for the examination and
treatment of insured persons or any reserve on such scales and terms as may be agreed upon between the Corporation
and the State Government from time to time, separate beds for the exclusive use of insured persons in the hospitals or
other medical institutions under its control, or a local body, private institutions or individual.
7.
Abolition of dispensary, etc.
- The State Government may, with the consent of the Corporation, abolish any State Insurance dispensary, cancel any
of the arrangements made under Rules 4 and 6 or effect such alteration as may be considered necessary in the location
of any dispensary.
8.
Allotment of insured persons.
- An insured person in any factory or establishment to which the Act applies, may at the time of filing the declaration
from under Employees' State Insurance (General) Regulations, 1950, or at any subsequent time, indicate the State
Insurance dispensary or other medical institution where arrangements for the provisions of medical benefit are made to
which he desires to be allotted or reallotted and the State Government shall so far as practicable and subject to such
conditions as may be fixed, allot or reallot such insured persons to the dispensary or the institution indicated by him :
Provided that where in the opinion of the State Government, the circumstances so justify, it may allot or reallot an
insured person to a dispensary or institution other than the one indicated by him.
9.
Failure to indicate dispensary or institution.
(1)
An insured person who does not indicate the dispensary to which he desired to be allotted shall be allotted to such
dispensary as the State Government may consider suitable.
(2)
Intimation, of the dispensary or institution to which an insured person is allotted or reallotted either under sub-rule (1) or
under Rule 8, as the case may be, shall be sent to the insured person by the State Government.
10.
Procedure for obtaining medical benefit.
- An insured person who wishes to claim medical benefit shall attend along with his identity card to the State Insurance
dispensary, or other hospital, clinic, mobile dispensary, post or any other medical institution to which he is allotted, and
claim such benefit from the Insurance Medical Officer-in-charge of the State Insurance dispensary or the Insurance
Medical Officer of the hospital, clinic or other institution to which he is allotted :
Provided that in case of an emergency, an insured person may claim medical benefit under these rules from any
Insurance Medical Officer whether he is allotted to him or not:
Provided further that where an insured person is unable to attend the Stale Insurance dispensary, hospital, clinic, mobile
dispensary post or any other medical institution, to which he is allotted the Insurance Medical Officer will, on intimation
being received, visit him at his residence, if he is satisfied, by interrogation or otherwise, that the insured person cannot
reasonably be expected to come to the medical institution to which he is allotted :
Provided further that if the insured person or his agent fails to produce his or the insured person's identity card, as the
case may be, as proof of the person claiming the benefit being an insured person the medical benefit may be refused to
him.
Page 3/7
----- PAGE 4 -----
Assam Employees' State Insurance (Medical Benefit) Rules, 1958
11.
Scale of medical benefit.
- The medical benefit provided under these rules shall be according to the following scale :
(1)
Out-patient treatment shall be provided at a State Insurance dispensary or in the manner indicated in Rule 4 and shall
consist of all treatments, other than treatment involving the application of special skill or experience, and shall include-
(i)
such preventive treatment as vaccination and inoculation;
(ii)
ante-natal and post-natal treatment of insured workwoman;
(iii)
the free provision of all drugs and dressings that may be considered necessary; and
(iv)
provision of certificate free of cost, in respect of sickness, maternity, employment injury and death required under the
Employees' State Insurance (General) Regulations, 1950 or under the directions or instructions issued from time to time
by the Corporation.
(2)
An Insurance Medical Officer shall visit an insured person at his or her residence in accordance with the second proviso
to Rule 10 and in addition to all cases of confinement or miscarriage, where the insured woman or the registered
midwife in attendance or any other reliable person reports that attendance by a medical practitioner is desirable.
(3)
Where, in the case of a serious emergency or otherwise, inpatient treatment in a hospital is considered necessary by
Insurance Medical Officer, the case shall be admitted to the nearest hospital which is established or specified for the
purpose by the State Government if accommodation is available and the treatment provided for the patient shall include
free maintenance and such specialist and general treatment including treatment at confinement where necessary, as
may be available at the general wards of the hospital to which the insured person is admitted as well as those special
investigations which are considered desirable and for which facilities exist at the hospital, or at an associated laboratory.
(4)
Facilities for the removal, free of charge of insured persons to and from hospital, where necessary, shall be provided by
ambulance or otherwise.
12.
Conditions of service of full-time Insurance Medical Officer.
(1)
Subject to the provisions of the Act and the rules made thereunder, the State Government may, subject to such
conditions as may be laid down by the Corporation, appoint a suitable medical officer already in its service or any person
possessing such medical qualifications as may be laid down by the State Government in consultation with the
Corporation, as an Insurance Medical Officer.
(2)
An Insurance Medical Officer, shall receive such salary and non-practicing allowance as may be determined by the
State Government with the consent of the Corporation.
(3)
An Insurance Medical Officer shall receive such allowance and at such rates as may be sanctioned from time to time for
Medical Officers of the State Government on similar grades in the localities in which they are stationed. An Insurance
Medical Officer, shall be entitled to leave and leave salary under the leave rules which, from time to time, be applicable
to other similar State Government servants.
(4)
An Insurance Medical Officer shall be entitled to travelling allowance for journeys performed on official duties on the
scale laid down in the State Government Rules applicable to Medical Officers of the State Government on similar
grades.
(5)
Full-time Insurance Medical Officer shall not undertake private practice.
Page 4/7
----- PAGE 5 -----
Assam Employees' State Insurance (Medical Benefit) Rules, 1958
(6)
An Insurance Medical Officer shall be subject to such other conditions of service as may be fixed by the State
Government in consultation with the corporation.
(7)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rules (2) to (5) the pay, allowances and other conditions of service of an
Insurance Medical Officer shall, if he is a person already in the service of the Government, be such as may be
determined, with the consent of the Corporation, by the State Government by a general or special order.
13.
Allowances for other Insurance Medical Officers.
- Where the State Government appoints a part-time Insurance Medical Officer or confers the duties and powers of an
Insurance Medical Officer on a Medical Officer in its service in addition to his duties or on any other medical practitioner,
such Medical Officer or medical practitioner shall be paid such allowances as may be fixed by the State Government
with the consent of the Corporation.
14.
Staff to be provided at hospital, dispensaries, etc.
- Each State Insurance dispensary shall be in the charge of an Insurance Medical Officer :
Provided that in cases where the concentration of Insured persons residing near a State Insurance dispensary so
justifies, the State Government shall in accordance with such scale and subject to such conditions as may be agreed
upon between the State Government and the Corporation, appoint two or more Insurance Medical Officers to such State
Insurance dispensary.
15.
Notice of the time during which dispensary, hospital, etc., shall be open.
(1)
Subject to the approval of the State Government the Insurance Medical Officer or the senior-most Insurance Medical
Officer, as the case may be, shall fix the time at which a State Insurance dispensary, hospital, clinic, mobile dispensary
post or any other medical institution specified for the purpose shall remain open for the treatment of insured persons.
(2)
Notice of the time fixed under sub-rule (1) shall be given in such manner as the State Government may, from time to
time, direct and in particular shall.be indicated in a notice board displayed prominently at each place where insured
persons are provided medical treatment and at each mobile dispensary post.
16.
Rank and precedence of Insurance Medical Officers.
(1)
Where more than one Insurance Medical Officers have been appointed to a State Insurance dispensary, the State
Government shall specify their rank or precedence.
(2)
the senior Insurance Medical Officers for the time being shall, from time to time, make such arrangements as he thinks
fit for the distribution of the work at the State Insurance dispensary among the Insurance Medical Officers appointed
thereto.
17.
Appointment of subordinate staff.
(1)
The State Government may, with the consent of the Corporation, appoint such ancillary, technical or non-technical staff
and such other subordinate staff as may be necessary for the proper provision of medical benefit, for ensured persons
by the State Government.
(2)
The technical, non-technical and subordinate staff shall perform such duties as the Insurance Medical Officer, or, if there
are more Insurance Medical Officers than one, the senior Insurance Medical Officer, may, subject to any orders of the
State Government from time to time, direct.
(3)
The technical, non-technical and subordinate staff shall be subject to such conditions of service and draw such salaries
Page 5/7
----- PAGE 6 -----
Assam Employees' State Insurance (Medical Benefit) Rules, 1958
and allowances and receive such other benefits as may be fixed by the State Government with the consent of the
Corporation.
18.
Maintenance of medical and surgical equipment.
- Every State Insurance dispensary, hospital, clinic mobile dispensary or any other medical institution specified for the
purpose shall maintain such medical and surgical equipment as may be laid down by the State Government with the
consent of the Corporation and all Insurance Medical Officers attached to State Insurance dispensaries or to other
medical institutions where provision for out-patient treatment is made under Rule 4 shall prescribe such drugs as are
required for insured persons but as far as possible in accordance with the State Insurance Medical formulary laid down
by the Corporation.
19.
Administrative control.
- All State Insurance dispensaries, hospitals, clinics, mobile dispensaries and other medical institutions specified for the
purpose of providing medical benefit under these rules shall be subject to the administrative control and
superintendence of the Director of Health Service.
20.
Medical Records and statistical returns.
- The Insurance Medical Officer-in-charge of each State Insurance dispensary, hospital, clinic, mobile dispensary or
other medical institutions specified for the purpose of each Insurance Medical Officer, as the case may be, shall-
(i)
keep such registers, books and accounts as the State Government, or the Director of Health Services, may, from time to
time, specify in consultation with the Corporation;
(ii)
maintain a medical record in respect of such insured persons allotted to the dispensary or to the Insurance Medical
Officer, as the case may be, in the form laid down and supplied by the Corporation for the purpose and in accordance
with the instructions issued by the Corporation in this behalf from time to time; and
(iii)
comply with such requisitions as may be made by the Corporation or the State Government or the Director of Health
Services in respect of records, returns and statements in such form and in such manner as the authority making the
requisition directs.
Part III
21.
Provision relating to medical benefit to families-Scale of medical benefit.
- The medical benefit provided to the family of an insured person shall be according to the following scale :
(1)
General medical services, which will include treatment at the State Insurance dispensary or at the clinic of an Insurance
Medical Practitioner or other authorised institution and shall consist of-
(i)
all treatment other than treatment involving the application of special skill or experience;
(ii)
such preventive treatment as vaccination and inoculation;
(iii)
free provision of drugs and dressings that may be considered necessary, but as far as possible in accordance with the
State Insurance Medical Formulary laid down by the Corporation and exclusive of such medicines as can be prescribed
only by specialists for insured persons.
(2)
Free maternity service to the wife of an insured person consisting of-
(i)
reasonable ante-natal and post-natal treatment at the aforesaid dispensary or clinic or other authorised institution;
(ii)
attendance by a midwife at the confinement at the residence of the insured person.
Page 6/7
----- PAGE 7 -----
Assam Employees' State Insurance (Medical Benefit) Rules, 1958
22.
Provision of General Medical Service.
- The State Government shall arrange to provide general medical services to the family of an insured person at a State
Insurance dispensary, clinic of an Insurance Medical Practitioner or other institution : provided that the State
Government may make arrangement for the family of the insured person separately at an independent State Insurance
dispensary or at other institution established or recognised for the purpose.
Part IV
23.
Delegation of powers.
(1)
The State Government may delegate any of the powers or duties conferred or imposed upon it by these rules to such of
its officers as it may, with the consent of the Corporation specify in this behalf.
(2)
Without prejudice to the provision of sub-rule (1) the State Government may delegate all or any of the powers or duties
conferred or imposed upon it by Rule 8 or Rule 9 to such officers of the Corporation, as it may deem fit.
24.
Relaxation.
- The State Government may, by special or general order, relax, with the consent of the Corporation any rule under such
circumstances and subject to such conditions as they may deem fit.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 7/7