
----- PAGE 1 -----
Assam Ganja and Bhang Prohibition Act, 1958
Assam Ganja and Bhang Prohibition Act, 1958
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/58861681/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
2
]
State of Assam - Act
Assam Ganja and Bhang Prohibition Act, 1958
ASSAM
India
Assam Ganja and Bhang Prohibition Act, 1958
Act 21 of 1959
Published on 1 June 1959
Commenced on 1 June 1959
[This is the version of this document from 1 June 1959.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
[Repealed by
The Assam Repealing Act, 2022 (Act 17 of 2022)
on
17 May 2022
]
Assam Ganja and Bhang Prohibition Act, 1958
Assam Act
No. 21 of 1959
Last Updated 12th February, 2020
Published in the Assam Gazette, Extraordinary, dated the 1st June, 1959.
[Received the assent of the Governor on the 29th May, 1959].
Page 1/6
----- PAGE 2 -----
Assam Ganja and Bhang Prohibition Act, 1958
An Act to prohibit cultivation, collection, possession, consumption, manufacture or sale of Ganja in, and of smuggling
thereof into the State of Assam and to restrict cultivation, collection, possession, consumption, manufacture or sale of
Bhang with a view to effect its ultimate prohibition in the State of Assam.
Preamble. - Whereas it is expedient to prohibit cultivation, collection, possession, consumption, manufacture and sale of
Ganja in, and of smuggling thereof into, the State of Assam and to restrict cultivation, collection, possession,
consumption, manufacture and sale of Bhang with a view to effect its ultimate prohibition in the State of Assam.
It is hereby enacted in the Ninth year of the Republic of India as follows :
1.
Short title, extent and commencement.
(1)
This Act may be called the Assam Ganja and Bhang Prohibition Act, 1958.
(2)
it extends to such area or areas as may be notified in the official Gazette, by the State Government from time to time.
(3)
It shall come into force in the notified area or areas on such date as the State Government may, by notification in the
official Gazette, appoint:
Provided that the State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, restrict the operation of this Act or of any
provision thereof in any notified area.
2.
Definitions.
- In this Act unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context-
(1)
"buy", with all its grammatical variations, means receipt for price paid in cash or kind, and includes any receipt by gift,
loan or otherwise ;
(2)
"State Prohibition Council" means the body of a non-official residents of the State as may be constituted by the State
Government by notification in the Official Gazette ;
(2-i) "Prohibition Officer" means a person appointed under Section 18(3) of the Act;
(3)
"Ganja" means dried flowers, flowering or fruiting tops of the Indian Hemp Plant (Cannabis Sativa L.);
(4)
"Bhang" means leaves of the Indian Hemp plant (Cannabis Sativa L.) including such form known as Siddhi;
(5)
"Import" means to bring into any notified area otherwise than across a custom frontier defined by the Central
Government;
(6)
"Manufacture" means every process, whether natural or artificial by which any ganja is produced or prepared ;
(7)
"Notified area" means an area notified under sub-section (2) of Section 1 of this Act ;
(8)
"Prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this Act;
(9)
"Sell", with all its grammatical variations, means any transfer including transfer by a gift or a loan or otherwise ;
(10)
"Transports" means to move from one part to another of any notified area or from any notified area to another notified
area.
3.
Prohibition.
- No person shall-
(a)
cultivate, collect or sell the Indian Hemp plant (Cannabis Sativa L.) ; or
Page 2/6
----- PAGE 3 -----
Assam Ganja and Bhang Prohibition Act, 1958
(b)
collect ganja or bhang from the Indian Hemp plant (Cannabis Sativa L); or
(c)
import, transport, manufacture, sell and buy ganja or bhang ; or
(d)
possess or consume ganja or bhang ; or
(e)
use or keep implement or apparatus for the manufacture or consumption of ganja or bhang.
4.
Punishment for contravention.
- Whoever contravenes the provisions of Section 3 shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term
which may extend to two years and also with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees.
5.
Punishment for allowing premises to be used for the commission of an offence.
- Whoever, being the owner or occupier or having the use of any house, room, enclosure, space, vessel, vehicles or
place, knowingly permits it to be used for the commission, by any other person, of an offence punishable under this Act
or the rules made thereunder, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to
six months or with fine, which may extend to five hundred rupees or with both.
6.
Enhanced punishment.
- Whenever any person, having been convicted for an offence under clause, (a) or clause, (b) or clause, (c) of Section 3
is again convicted of an offence under any of the aforesaid clauses, the imprisonment with which he shall be punished
shall be rigorous imprisonment for a term which may extend to four years.
7.
Security for abstaining from commission of offences.
(1)
Whenever any person is convicted of an offence punishable under Section 4 or under Section 5, and the Court
convicting him is of opinion that it is necessary to require such person to execute a bond for abstaining from the
commission of such offence, the Court may, at the time of passing sentence on such person, order him to execute a
bond for a sum proportionate to his means, with or without sureties, for abstaining from the commission of such offence
during such period, not exceeding three years, as it thinks fit to fix.
(2)
The bond shall be in the prescribed form and the provision of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (Act 5 of 1898),
shall, in so far as they are applicable, apply to all matters connected with such bond as if it were a bond to keep the
peace ordered to be executed under Section 106 of that Code.
(3)
If the conviction is set aside on appeal or otherwise, the bond executed shall become void.
(4)
Any order under this section may also be made by an Appellate Court, or by the High Court when exercising its powers
of revision.
8.
Attempts.
-  Whoever attempts to commit an offence punishable under Section 4, or to cause such an offence to be committed,
and in such attempt does any act towards the commission of the offence or towards the causing of its commission, shall
be punished with the punishment provided for the offence.
9.
Abetments.
- Whoever abets an offence punishable under Section 4 or Section 5 shall, whether such offence be or be not committed
in consequence of such abetment, be punished with the punishment provided for the offence.
10.
Power to issue warrants.
Page 3/6
----- PAGE 4 -----
Assam Ganja and Bhang Prohibition Act, 1958
(1)
A District Magistrate or a sub-divisional Magistrate or a Magistrate of the first class, or an officer of the Excise
Department not below the rank of a Superintendent specially empowered by the State Government on this behalf, may
issue a warrant for the arrest of any persons whom he has reason to believe to have committed an offence punishable
under this Act or the rules made thereunder, or for the search, whether by day or by night, of any building, vessels or
place in which he has reason to believe any ganja, bhang, material, utensil, implement or apparatus, in respect of which
an offence punishable under this Act has been committed, is kept or concealed.
(2)
The officer to whom a search warrant under sub-section (1) is addressed shall have all the powers of an officer under
Section 11.
11.
Power of entry, search and seizures, etc.
(1)
Any officer of the Department of Excise not below the rank of Assistant Inspector of Excise, any officer of the
Department of Police not below the rank of Sub-Inspector of Police, any officer of the Department of Revenue not below
the rank of Sub-Deputy Collector, and any person authorised in this behalf by the State Government who has reason to
believe from personal knowledge or from information received from any person and taken down in writing and attested
by the informant, that any ganja, bhang, material, utensil, implement or apparatus in respect of which an offence
punishable under this Act or the rules made thereunder has been committed is kept or concealed in any building, vessel,
or enclosed place, may between sunrise and sunset-
(a)
enter into any such building, vessel or place ;
(b)
in case of resistance, break open any door and remove any other obstacle to such entry ;
(c)
seize such ganja, bhang, material, utensil, implement or apparatus, and any document or other article which may furnish
evidence of the commission of the offence ;
(d)
detain, search and arrest any person whom he has reason to believe to have committed an offence against this Act
relating to such ganja, bhang, material, utensil, implement or apparatus :
Provided that if such officer has reason to believe that search warrant cannot be obtained without affording opportunity
for concealment of evidence or facility for the escape of an offender he may, after recording the ground of his belief,
enter and search such building, vessel or enclosed place at any time between sunset and sunrise.
(2)
Where an officer takes down any information in writing under sub-section (1), or records grounds for his belief under the
proviso thereto, he shall forthwith send a copy thereof to his immediate official superior.
12.
Power of seizure and arrest in public places.
- Any officer of any of the Department referred to in Section 11 may within the prohibited area notified under this Act-
(a)
seize, in any public place or in transit, any ganja, bhang, material, utensil, implement or apparatus in respect of which he
has reason to believe an offence punishable under this Act or the rules made thereunder has been committed, and,
along with it any document or other article which may furnish evidence of the commission of the offence; and
(b)
detain, search and arrest any person whom he his reason to believe to have committed an offence against this Act
relating to such ganja, bhang, material, utensil, implement or apparatus.
13.
Mode of executing warrants, etc.
- The provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (Act 5 of 1898), shall, in so far as they are applicable, apply to
the execution of warrants and making of searches, arrests, and seizure under this Act.
14.
Page 4/6
----- PAGE 5 -----
Assam Ganja and Bhang Prohibition Act, 1958
Report of arrest and seizure.
- Any officer making an arrest or seizure under this Act shall, within twenty-four hours of such seizure and arrest, make a
full report of all the particulars of such arrest or seizure to his immediate official superior.
15.
Production of persons arrested.
- Every person arrested under any of the provisions of this Act shall be produced before the nearest Magistrate, within
twenty-four hours of such arrest, excluding the time necessary for the journey from the place of arrest to the Court of the
Magistrate.
16.
Power to invest Excise Officer.
- The State Government may invest any officer of the Excise Department, not below the rank of Inspector with the
powers of an officer-in-charge of a Police Station for the investigation of offences under this Act.
17.
Jurisdiction to try offences.
- The Provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (Act 5 of 1898), shall apply to the trial of offences against this
Act or the rules made thereunder,
18.
Prohibition Committees.
(1)
The State Government may, by notification in the official Gazette, constitute for the State and for such period as it may
deem fit a State Prohibition Council consisting of two or more non-official residents of the State as may be prescribed by
the State Government. The State Government may, by like notification dissolve or reconstitute any such Council.
(2)
The State Prohibition Council may, by notification in the official Gazette, constitute for any district or part thereof and for
such period as it may deem fit, "Prohibition Committees consisting of two or more non-official residents of the district.
The State Prohibition Council may, by like notification, dissolve or re-constitute any such Committee.
(3)
For the purposes of Sections 11 and 12 of the Act, the State Government may, by notification in the official Gazette,
appoint any member of a Prohibition Committee by virtue of office or otherwise to be a Prohibition Officer and the
relation of officers so appointed to the State Prohibition Council shall be such as may be prescribed.
(4)
The duties to be performed by the State Prohibition Council and the Prohibition Committees and the relation between
the Council and the Committees and the relation of such Committees to the Council shall be such as may be prescribed.
19.
Punishment for vexatious entry, etc.
- Any person acting under the powers given by Section 11 or 12 who-
(a)
without reasonable grounds of suspicion,enters or searches or causes to be entered or searched any building, vessels
or place ; or
(b)
vexatiously and unnecessarily seizes the property of any person on the pretense of seizing or searching for any ganja
and bhang or seizing any document or other article liable to seizure under Section 11 or 12 ; or
(c)
vexatiously and unnecessarily detains, searches or arrests any person or fails to produce, within the time specified in
Section 15, the person arrested or the article seized before the proper authority, shall be punished with imprisonment of
either description for a term which may extend to one year or with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees or with
both.
20.
Indemnity.
- No action shall lie against any officer for damages in any Civil Court for any act done bona fide or ordered to be done
in pursuance of this Act or the rules thereunder.
Page 5/6
----- PAGE 6 -----
Assam Ganja and Bhang Prohibition Act, 1958
21.
Permits.
- Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the State Government may prescribe the conditions under which
permits may be issued for-
(a)
cultivation, collection or sale of the Indian Hemp plant (Cannabis Sativa L.);
(b)
import, transport, manufacture, sale, possession or use of bhang; and
(c)
use or keeping of any implement or apparatus for the manufacture of Bhang for social, religious, medicinal and scientific
purposes.
22.
Repeal
(Act
1 of 1910
). - The provisions relating to ganja and bhang in the Assam Excise Act, 1910, shall stand repealed in respect of the
area or areas in which this Act may be enforced.
23.
Power to make rules.
(1)
The State Government may, subject to the condition of previous publication, make rules for carrying out the purposes of
this Act.
(2)
In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power such rules may prescribe-
(a)
the duties to be performed by a Prohibition Committee and its relation to the State Prohibition Council and other
Committees ;
(b)
any other matter as may, or requires to be prescribed.
(3)
In making rules under this section, the State Government may attach a penalty for the breach of any particular rule.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 6/6