
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Assam Autonomous Districts Administration of Justice Act, 1960
The Assam Autonomous Districts Administration of Justice Act, 1960
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/45415624/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
2
]
State of Assam - Act
The Assam Autonomous Districts Administration of Justice Act, 1960
ASSAM
India
The Assam Autonomous Districts Administration of Justice Act, 1960
Rule THE-ASSAM-AUTONOMOUS-DISTRICTS-ADMINISTRATION-OF-JUSTICE-ACT-1960 of 1960
Published on 20 April 1960
Commenced on 20 April 1960
[This is the version of this document from 20 April 1960.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Assam Autonomous Districts Administration of Justice Act, 1960
Last Updated 8th February, 2020
[As Passed by the Assembly]
Published in the Assam Gazette, Extraordinary, dated the 20th April, 1960.
[Received the assent of the Governor on the 15th April, 1960].
An Act to provide for the appointment of Additional Deputy Commissioners for Administration of Justice in the
autonomous districts
Preamble. - Whereas it is expedient to provide for the appointment of Additional Deputy Commissioner for administration
of justice in the autonomous districts;
It is hereby enacted in the Eleventh Year of the Republic of India as follows:
1.
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Assam Autonomous Districts Administration of Justice Act, 1960
Short title, extent and commencement.
(1)
This Act may be called the Assam Autonomous Districts Administration of Justice Act, 1960.
(2)
It shall extend to the autonomous districts of Assam.
(3)
It shall come into force at once.
2.
Appointed of Additional Deputy Commissioner.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in the rules for administration of justice and police in the autonomous districts as
adapted and modified by the Assam Autonomous Districts (Administration of Justice) Regulation, 1952 and as in force
for the time being; or in any other law in force, the State Government may, when it thinks fit, appoint one or more
Additional Deputy Commissioners for an autonomous district either generally, or for the trial of a particular case, or
particular cases, civil or criminal, and may direct that such Additional Deputy Commissioner shall, for the general or
special purposes aforesaid, exercise all or any of the powers of the Deputy Commissioner.
(2)
An Additional Deputy Commissioner, if and when appointed for the United District of Mikir and North Cachar Hills and
when so directed by the State Government, shall also exercise the powers mentioned in sub-section (1) in the tribal
areas of the North Cachar Hills specified in Part 'A' of the table appended to the Sixth Schedule to the Constitution.
(3)
An Additional Deputy Commissioner appointed for the United Khasi-jaintia Hills District if and when so directed by the
State Government shall also exercise the powers mentioned in sub-section (1) in the Jowai District constituted under
Government Notification No. TAD/R/50/64, dated the 23rd November, 1964.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2