
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Amended Assam Aided High and Higher Secondary Schools Employees Rules, 1965
The Amended Assam Aided High and Higher Secondary Schools
Employees Rules, 1965
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/186982558/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Assam - Act
The Amended Assam Aided High and Higher Secondary Schools Employees Rules, 1965
ASSAM
India
The Amended Assam Aided High and Higher Secondary Schools Employees Rules, 1965
Rule THE-AMENDED-ASSAM-AIDED-HIGH-AND-HIGHER-SECONDARY-SCHOOLS-EMPLOYEES-RULES-1965 of
1965
Published on 9 March 1961
Commenced on 9 March 1961
[This is the version of this document from 9 March 1961.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Amended Assam Aided High and Higher Secondary Schools Employees Rules, 1965
Published vide Notification No. ESS-58/64/11
Last Updated 10th February, 2020
No. ESS-58/64/11. - The Governor of Assam is pleased to make the amendments to the Assam Aided High and Higher
Secondary Employees Rules (1960) published under Notification No. ESS-140/59, dated 9th March, 1961 (vide Assam
Gazette, dated 29th March, 1961, which are incorporated below :
1.
The title of the Rule shall be "Amended Assam Aided High and Higher Secondary School Employees Rules, 1965".
Page 1/6
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Amended Assam Aided High and Higher Secondary Schools Employees Rules, 1965
These rules shall come into force at once.
2.
Extent of application.
- These rules shall apply to all persons already employed or shall be employed in a Government Aided High or Higher
Secondary School coming under these rules on the date of commencement of these rules.
3.
Definition.
- In these rules unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context-
(a)
"Appointing Authority" means the Appointing Authority under these rules ;
(b)
"Government" means Government of Assam in the Education Department;
(c)
"Managing Committee" means the Committee constituted under the Assam Education Department Rules and Orders ;
(d)
"Selection Board" means the Selection Board constituted under the provisions of Rr. 4(1) and 4(2);
(e)
"Year" means the calendar year ;
(f)
"Government Aided High or Higher Secondary Schools" means a High or Higher Secondary School receiving
maintenance grant from the State Government.
4.
Method of recruitment.
(1)
Headmasters/Headmistresses.-
(i)
There shall be a State Selection Board consisting of the following, viz :
(a)
Director of Public Instruction, Assam - Chairman ;
(b)
Additional Director of Public Instruction, Assam - Secretary.
(c)
Inspectors of Schools concerned - Members.
(d)
Two educationists to be nominated by the Government - Members.
(ii)
The Director of Public Instruction, Assam shall ascertain from various institutions concerned well ahead of each
academic year vacancies that are likely to occur during the year and advertise in at least two newspapers and also in
the Assam Gazette and forward to the Selection Board the applications received together with all relevant records
indicating at the same time the number of vacancies and the names of the institutions involved.
(iii)
The Selection Board shall after the interview prepare a list or candidates in order of preference and shall forward the list
so prepared to the managing committees of the Schools concerned.
(iv)
The managing committee shall make appointments after due verifications and with prior approval of the Inspectors of
Schools concerned.
Note. - Special Pay. - Appointment of Headmasters/Headmistresses already in service but not confirmed shall be
regularised in accordance with the conditions in Rule 5 Headmasters/Headmistresses not having the requisite
qualifications and experience as set forth in Rule 5 if retained or take on for non-availability or duly qualified persons
shall get their grade pay and a special pay of Rs. 60 per month.
The scale pay of Rs. 150-300 sanctioned in 1956 will be treated as grade pay for those Headmasters and
Page 2/6
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Amended Assam Aided High and Higher Secondary Schools Employees Rules, 1965
Headmistresses who are enjoining it on 1st April, 1959 and are not eligible for the new scale of pay.
Headmasters and Headmistresses on grade pay, shall, however, get a scale pay of Rs. 200-500 on attainment of the
requisite qualifications and experience. (This taken effect from 15th February, 1961).
(2)
Assistant Headmasters/Assistant Headmistresses of High and Higher Secondary Schools. -
(i)
There shall be a Divisional Selection Board in each Inspectorate consisting of the following :
(a)
Inspector of Schools - Chairman ;
(b)
An Assistant Inspector of Schools (to be nominated by the Inspector of Schools) - Secretary ;
(c)
One Headmaster (to be nominated by the Director of Public Instruction Assam) - Member;
(d)
One Headmistress (to be nominated by the Director of Public Instruction Assam) - Member ;
(e)
Two educationists (to be nominated by the Director of Public Instructions, Assam) - Members
(ii)
The Inspectors of Schools shall ascertain from various institutions concerned well ahead of each academic year
vacancies in at least two newspapers and also in the Assam Gazette, and forward to the Selection Board the
applications received together with all relevant records indicating at the same time the number of vacancies and the
names of the institutions involved.
(iii)
The Selection Board shall after interview prepare a list of candidates in order of preference and shall forward the list to
the managing committees of the Schools concerned.
(iv)
The managing committees of the Schools shall make appointment after due verification and subject to the approval of
the Inspector of Schools.
(v)
The managing committees shall have powers to fill up the vacancies for a period not exceeding three months subject to
the approval of the Inspector of Schools.
(vi)
The list of candidates shall ordinarily remain valid for one year from the date of selection.
(3)
Assistant Teachers. - The Assistant Teachers holding Bachelor's of Higher Degrees shall be selected through a test
and/or interview to be conducted either by the Director of Public Instruction or by the Board of Secondary Education as
may be decided by the Government from time to time. The Director of Public Instruction shall prepare a list of selected
candidates in order of preference and publish the list in the Assam Gazette and forward it to the managing committee.
The managing committee shall make appointments from a special list after due verification and with the prior approval of
the Inspector of Schools concerned. The list of candidates shall ordinarily remain valid for one year.
The managing committee shall have a powers to fill up vacancies even from outside this list for a period not exceeding
three months subject to the approval of the Inspector of Schools concerned.
(4)
Office Assistants. - The Managing Committee concerned shall after due advertisement in at least two newspapers make
the appointments of Office Assistants subject to the approval of the Inspectors of Schools concerned.
5.
Academic and other qualifications.
- (i) Headmasters/Headmistresses. -  A candidate shall hold a B.T. or Master's degree in Arts, Science or Commerce
and shall have at least ten years' teaching experience. The educational qualification may be relaxed to the Bachelor's
degree in Arts, Science or Commence, if-
(a)
Page 3/6
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Amended Assam Aided High and Higher Secondary Schools Employees Rules, 1965
the Headmasters and Headmistresses are already confirmed in their services with due approval of the Inspector of
Schools concerned on or before 1st October, 1956 : Provided that such Headmasters/Headmistresses have put in at
least ten years service as a teacher in a recognised Secondary' School;
(b)
the candidates have put in at least 15 years' service at teacher in recognised Secondary Schools including five years as
an Assistant Headmaster or Headmistress or in both the capacities or at least 20 years' experience as a teacher in
recognised Secondary Schools. In case of women candidates, however, the candidate may have only 10 years' total
teaching experience in Secondary Schools.
(ii)
Assistant Headmasters/Assistant Headmistresses. - A candidate shall hold at least 5 years' experience in teaching
which may be relaxed up to three years in exceptional cases of outstanding academic career.
(iii)
Other Assistant Teachers and Office Assistants. - The following shall be the minimum qualifications for the appointment
of other assistant teachers ;
(a)
A simple pass in the first part of the Degree Examination ;
(b)
A matriculate, Normal; or
(c)
Such other qualifications as may be prescribed by the Government from time to time.
And the following shall be minimum qualifications for the appointment of other Office Assistants;
A pass in the High of Higher Secondary School Leaving Certificate Examination, or other equivalent Examination.
The managing committee shall after due advertisement and verification make appointments subject to approval of the
Inspectors of Schools concerned.
6.
Disqualification for appointment.
- No person shall ordinarily be eligible for appointment unless he is a citizen of India.
7.
Probation.
- All persons other than menials appointed in High or Higher Secondary Schools shall be on probation for a period of two
years subject to the production of medical certificate as may be prescribed :
Provided that in the event of unsatisfactory works or conduct during the period of probation for which written warning
was given to a probationer or in the event of failure to pass an examination or training or test if so prescribed, the period
may be extended by another year.
8.
Discharge of probationer.
- A probationer will be liable to discharge from the service-
(a)
if he/she fails to give satisfaction during or at the end of the period of probation ;
(b)
if on any information received relating to his/her nationality, age, health, character and antecedents, the appointing
authority is satisfied that the probationer is ineligible or otherwise unfit for holding the appointment.
9.
Confirmation.
- (i) Where a probationer has completed his/her period of probation to the satisfaction of the appointing authority, he/she
shall be confirmed in the service on completion of two years' probation with the prior approval of the Inspector of
Schools concerned.
(ii)
Efficiency Bar. - The managing committee shall allow the employees to cross the Efficiency Bar of the character roll and
other service records with the prior approval of the Inspector of Schools concerned :
Provided that the Inspector of Schools may withhold the permission or allow the employees to cross the Efficiency Bar
Page 4/6
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Amended Assam Aided High and Higher Secondary Schools Employees Rules, 1965
from a date later than due date if he so considers necessary.
10.
Character rolls and service books.
- Character Rolls of Headmasters/Headmistresses shall be kept in the custody of the Director of Public Instruction and
the Character Rolls of Assistant Headmasters/Headmistresses and Assistant Teachers shall be kept in the custody of
the Inspector of Schools concerned. For Headmasters/Headmistresses, the Inspector of Schools shall initiate the entry
in their Character Rolls and the Director of Public Instruction shall be the reviewing and accepting authority. For
Assistant Headmasters/Assistant Headmistresses and Assistant Teachers the Headmasters/Headmistresses shall
initiate the entry in the Character Rolls and the Inspector of Schools concerned shall be the reviewing and accepting
authority. For Office Assistants the Headmasters/Headmistresses shall initiate their entry in the Character Rolls and the
Inspector of Schools shall, be the reviewing and accepting authority.
Service Book shall be maintained in the prescribed from for the Head masters/Head mistresses by the Inspector of
Schools concerned and in respect of all other employees excluding Grace IV by the Headmasters/Headmistresses
concerned.
11.
Superannuation.
- (i) An employee of Aided High And Higher Secondary School shall retire on attaining the age of 60 years :
Provided that the managing committee may, for any special reasons, recommend to the Director of Public Instruction for
extension of service to an employee beyond 60 years and the Director of Public Instruction may, on merits of the case
and subject to the employee being certified by a Medical Officer duly authorised for the purpose as physically and
mentally fit, grant extension up to 63 years only not exceeding one year as a time.
(ii)
In special circumstances the Government may allow extension of service beyond the age of 60 years subject to a
maximum period of one year only.
12.
Re-employment.
- (i) No person other than a retired teacher from a Government Educational Institution, who has already attained the age
of 55 years, shall ordinarily be re-employed as a High and Higher Secondary School Teacher, Retired teacher from
Government Educational Institution may, however, be re-employed on contract basis in Government Aided High and
Higher Secondary Schools ; provided that they are certified by a Medical Officer duly authorised for the purpose as
physically and mentally fit.
(ii)
Re-employment of persons under sub-rule (i) shall be subject to the provisions of Rule 11 (i) and such other terms and
conditions not inconsistent with these rules as may be mutually agreed upon between the Managing Committee and the
person concerned with the approval of the Inspector of Schools.
13.
Appeal by Managing Committee.
(1)
A managing committee aggrieved by an order passed by the Inspector of Schools under these rules may within thirty
days of such an order prefer an appeal to the Director of Public Instruction against the orders passed by the Inspector of
Schools. A copy of the order appealed against must invariably accompany such application. The order of the Director of
Public Instruction on appeal shall be final.
(2)
An employee aggrieved by any order of the managing committee may, within 15 days of receipt of such order, prefer an
appeal to the Inspector of Schools and to the Director of Public Instruction against the order of the Inspector of Schools
within 30 days of the receipt of Inspector of Schools' order through proper channel.
14.
Contributory Provident Fund.
- Every teacher who has been confirmed shall subscribe to the Contributory Provident Fund according to the rules
provided in the Education Department Rules and Orders.
15.
Page 5/6
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Amended Assam Aided High and Higher Secondary Schools Employees Rules, 1965
Savings.
(1)
Except appointments, not confirmed prior to 1st October, 1956, all things done or actions taken before the
commencement of these rules shall be construed as validly done or taken under the corresponding provisions of these
rules.
(2)
All appeals and other matters pending before an authority on the date of the commencement of these rules shall be
transferred to and the treated as pending before, the appropriate authority in these rules.
(3)
Notwithstanding anything contained in the forgoing rules in respect of appointment Government, may at any time call for
the records and pass necessary orders after examination thereof.
16.
On the basis of reports or inspection, the Inspector of Schools may direct the managing committee of a High or Higher
Secondary School to enquire into the conduct of any employee and also to take such action as is considered
appropriate by him.
17.
The Director of Public Instruction or Inspector of Schools may direct a managing committee to take disciplinary action
against any of its employees, and such direction shall be promptly carried out by the Committee. The managing
committee shall carry out the necessary formalities required for the purpose.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 6/6