
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Assam Board of Revenue Act, 1962
The Assam Board of Revenue Act, 1962
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/194451120/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
10
]
State of Assam - Act
The Assam Board of Revenue Act, 1962
ASSAM
India
The Assam Board of Revenue Act, 1962
Act 21 of 1962
Published on 1 January 1962
Commenced on 1 January 1962
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 1962.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Assam Board of Revenue Act, 1962
(Assam Act
No. 21 of 1962
)
Last Updated 10th February, 2020
An Act to provide for the constitution of a Board of Revenue for the State of Assam
Preamble. - Whereas it is expedient to provide for the constitution of a Board of Revenue for the State of Assam for the
purpose and in the manner hereinafter appearing:
It is hereby enacted in the Thirteenth Year of the Republic of India as follows :
Chapter I
Preliminary
Page 1/6
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Assam Board of Revenue Act, 1962
1.
Short title, extent and commencement.
(1)
This Act may be called the Assam Board of Revenue Act, 1962.
(2)
It extends to the whole of the State of Assam.
(3)
It comes into force on such date as the State Government may, by notification in the official Gazette, appoint.
2.
Definitions.
- In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context-
(1)
"Board" means the Assam Board of Revenue constituted under Section 3.
(2)
"Prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this Act.
(3)
"Schedule" means Schedule to this Act.
Chapter II
Constitution, Powers and Functions of the Assam Board of Revenue
3.
Constitution of the Board.
(1)
The State Government shall constitute for the State of Assam a Board to be known as the Assam Board of Revenue.
Membership of the Board. - (2) The Board shall consist of four members to be appointed by the State Government:
Provided, however, that in case of any vacancy in the membership of the Board, the Board shall not be deemed to be
not constituted for the purpose of this Act.
Qualification of the member. - (3) A member of the Board shall either be a person who, in the opinion of the State
Government, is by reason of his wide administrative or judicial experience fitted to serve on the Board or a person who
is qualified to be appointed as a Judge of a High Court.
Chairman of the Board. - (4) The State Government shall appoint one of the members of the Board to Act as the
Chairman thereof.
Constitution of Benches. - (5) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (2), the Chairman of the Board shall be
competent to constitute or reconstitute Benches consisting of one or two members of the Board or dispose of any case
or class of cases and the decisions of such Benches shall be deemed to be the decision of the Board.
Decision where appeal heard by two members. - (6) If there be any difference of opinion between the members
constituting a two-member Bench in disposing of a case, the matter shall be placed before the Chairman who may, in
his discretion, either refer the matter to the third member or refer it to the full Board for hearing and finally disposing of
the matter.
Age limit. - (7) No person shall be retained as a member of the Board after he has attained the age of sixty years.
Salary. - (8) The salary and allowances of the members of the Board shall be such as may be prescribed.
4.
Power and jurisdiction of the Board.
- The Board shall have the powers and jurisdiction to entertain appeals and petitions and revise decisions in revenue
cases arising under the provisions of the enactments specified in Schedule 'A' and shall also have such power and
jurisdiction as may be conferred on it by any other law for the time being in force.
5.
Power of State Government to assign additional duties and functions.
- Without prejudice to anything contained in Section 4, the State Government may, by notification, assign to the Board
such other duties and functions as it may deem fit.
6.
Board's decision final.
Page 2/6
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Assam Board of Revenue Act, 1962
- No appeal or revision shall lie against any order passed by the Board in the exercise of its powers of appeal or revision
under this Act.
7.
Board's power of review of its own judgement.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in Section 6 to the contrary, and subject to Section 8, the Board may, on the
application of any of the parties, review its own decision or order in any case and may pass such order as it thinks fit:
Provided that no such decision or order shall be reviewed unless notice has been given to the opposite parties to appear
and to show cause why such order or decision should not be reviewed.
(2)
An application for review under sub-section (1) by any party shall be made within ninety days from the date of the
decision or order of the Board.
(3)
In computing the period of limitation, the provision of the Indian Limitation Act, 1908 (Act IX of 1908) applicable to the
applications for review of a judgement or order of a Civil Court shall, so far as may be apply to applications for review
under this section.
8.
Amendment of decision or orders.
- Clerical or arithmetical mistakes in decision or orders or errors arising therein from any accidental slip or omission may
at any time be corrected by the Board either of its own motion or on the application of any of the parties.
9.
Costs.
- In any proceedings referred to in Section 4 or Section 7, the Board may award such costs as it thinks fit and determine
by whom such costs are to be paid and where there are several persons liable, the amount to be paid by each such
person. Any cost awarded by the Board shall be recoverable as if it were an arrear of land revenue.
10.
Board's place of sitting.
- Subject to the orders of the State Government the Board may hold its Court at any place within the State of Assam.
11.
Contempt.
- The Board shall have the same powers of dealing with contempt of the Board or in respect of any proceedings before
the Board as if the Board were a High Court referred to in Article 214 of the Constitution of India.
Chapter III
Miscellaneous
12.
Power to make rules.
(1)
The State Government may, by notification in the official Gazette, make rules consistent with the provisions of this Act,
for carrying out the purposes of this Act save in regard to the matters specified in Section 13.
(2)
All rules under this section shall be laid for not less than fourteen days before the Assam Legislature Assembly as soon
as possible after they are made and shall be subject to such modifications as the Legislative Assembly may make during
the session in which they are so laid or the session immediately following.
13.
Power to make regulation by the Board.
(1)
Subject to the previous sanction of the State Government, the Board shall, from time to time, frame regulations
consistent with the provisions of this Act and rules made under Section 12 for regulating its procedure and disposal of its
business.
(2)
The regulations made under sub-section (1) shall be published in the official Gazette.
Page 3/6
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Assam Board of Revenue Act, 1962
14.
Repeal and savings.
(1)
The Assam Board of Revenue Act, 1959 (Assam Act VIII of 1960) is hereby repealed.
(2)
The enactments specified in the third column of Schedule 'B' are hereby repealed or amended to the extent mentioned
in the fourth column thereof.
(3)
Notwithstanding such repeal under sub-sections (1) and (2), any decision taken, order made, anything done or any
proceeding commenced under any of the provisions of the Act repealed shall, in so far as they are not inconsistent with
the provisions of this Act continue in force and shall be deemed to have been taken, done or commenced under the
corresponding provisions of this Act.
'A'
[See Section 4]
Sl. No.
Act
Jurisdiction
1.
The Opium Act, 1878 (1 of 1878).
1. Appeal or revision under rules for the time being in force
made under Section 5.
2. Appeal or revision against an order passed under Sections
23, 24 and 25.
2.
The Assam Local Rates Regulation, 1879 (III of 1879)
Appeal under Section 8 against the order of any officer
appointed under Section 6 to assess or collect the rates.
3.
The Assam Forest Regulation, 1891 (VII of 1891).
1. Appeal in matters of Sections 11, 12, 13 and 14.
2. Revision under Section 20 of arrangements made under
Section 13 or 16.
4.
The Assam Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1936 (IX of 1936).
Revision of orders under Section 17.
5.
The Motor Vehicles Act, 1939 (IV of 1939).
Appeals against the order of the State Transport Authority in
any matter falling under Clauses (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f),
(g), (h) and (i) of Section 64.
'B'
[See Section 14]
Year
No.
Act
Extent of repeal or amendment
1
2
3
4
[Deleted by Act XXV
Page 4/6
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Assam Board of Revenue Act, 1962
of 1974]
1913
III
The Bengal Public Demands Recovery Act, 1913.
1.
In Section 3 of the Act, after sub-clause (7) the following
shall be inserted as sub-clause (8) namely:
"(8) 'Board' means the Assam Board of Revenue constituted
under the Assam Board of Revenue Act, 1962.
2.
In Section 51 of the Act, in Clause (b) of sub-section (1),
for the word "Commissioner" the word "Board"
shall be substituted.
3.
For Section 53 of the Act, the following shall be substituted,
namely:
"53. The Collector may revise any order passed by the
Certificate Officer, the Assistant Collector or the Deputy
Collector under this Act;
and the Board may revise any order passed by a Collector under
this Act."
1935
III
The Assam (Temporarily Settled Districts) Tenancy Act, 1935.
1.
In Section 3 of the Act, after Clause (17), the following
shall be inserted as Clause (18), namely:
"(18) 'Board' means the Assam Board of Revenue
constituted under the Assam Board of Revenue Act, 1962."
2.
In Section 98 of the Act-
(1) For the word "Commissioner" occurring in Clause
(a), the word "Board" shall be substituted ;
(2) the proviso at the end shall be deleted.
3.
In Section 99 of the Act, in sub-section (1), for the word
"Commissioner" occurring between the words "the"
and "after" the word "Board" shall be
substituted.
4.
In Section 102 of the Act, for the word "Commissioner"
occurring between the words "tire" and "of the
word "Board" shall be substituted.
1978
XVII
The Northern India Ferries Act, 1878
In Section 31 of the Act, in the second paragraph for the
words "Commissioner of the Division" occurring between
the words "the" and "may" the words "Assam
Board of Revenue" shall be substituted.
1939
Page 5/6
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Assam Board of Revenue Act, 1962
I
The Assam Commissioners Powers Distribution Act, 1939
The whole
1947
XII
The Assam Commissioners' (Transfer of Powers) Act, 1947
The whole
1948
IV
The Assam Revenue Tribunal (Transfer of Powers) Act, 1946
The whole
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 6/6