
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Assam Betterment Fee and Mooring Tax (Dibrugarh) Rules, 1962
The Assam Betterment Fee and Mooring Tax (Dibrugarh) Rules, 1962
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/187619516/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Assam - Act
The Assam Betterment Fee and Mooring Tax (Dibrugarh) Rules, 1962
ASSAM
India
The Assam Betterment Fee and Mooring Tax (Dibrugarh) Rules, 1962
Rule THE-ASSAM-BETTERMENT-FEE-AND-MOORING-TAX-DIBRUGARH-RULES-1962 of 1962
Published on 1 May 1962
Commenced on 1 May 1962
[This is the version of this document from 1 May 1962.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Assam Betterment Fee and Mooring Tax (Dibrugarh) Rules, 1962
Published vide Notification No. R.S.D. 9/59/18, dated 1st May, 1962, published in the Assam Gazette, Part 2-A, dated
9.5.1962 at page 1689
Last Updated 10th February, 2020
No. R.S.D. 9/59/18, dated the 1st May, 1962. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 15 of the Assam
Betterment Fee and Mooring Tax (Dibrugarh) Act, 1953 (Assam Act No. VIII of 1953), the Governor of Assam is pleased
to make the following rules for carrying out the purposes of the Act and to publish the same in the official Gazette for
general information :
1.
Short title.
- These rules may be called the Assam Betterment Fee and Mooring Tax (Dibrugarh) Rules, 1962, and shall come into
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Assam Betterment Fee and Mooring Tax (Dibrugarh) Rules, 1962
force at once.
2.
Definitions.
- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires-
(a)
'Act' means the Assam Betterment Fee and Mooring Tax (Dibrugarh) Act, 1953.
(b)
'Section' and 'sub-section' means respectively a section or a sub-section of the Act.
(c)
All words and expressions used in these rules and not defined herein but defined in the Act shall respectively have the
same meaning as assigned to them in the Act.
3.
Preparation and publication of the list of persons liable to pay the fee under Section 5 of the Act.
(1)
After determination of the valuation of the properties under sub-section (2) of Section 5, the the Collector shall pass an
order assessing the fee payable for every financial year by every person owning property within each belt. In assessing
the fees the belt as well as the valuation of the properties protected shall be taken into consideration.
(2)
The Collector shall then prepare a list, belt by belt, of all such persons showing therein-
(a)
the name of every such person ;
(b)
the property owned by him ;
(c)
the valuation of the property ; and
(d)
the annual fee assessed by the Collector.
(3)
The list shall be published by affixing a copy on the notice board of the office of the Collector and another copy in any
conspicuous place within the belt to which the list relates.
(4)
A copy of the assessment order passed under sub-rule (1) shall be served on such person liable to pay the fee by
tendering a copy thereof to him personally or to his duly authorised agent or if he or his agent be found absent to any
adult member of the house in which he ordinarily resides. The serving officer shall require the signature of recipient to be
given on the body of the returnable copy of the order.
(5)
If the person ordinarily resides outside the jurisdiction of the Collector, then the Collector may serve the copy of the
assessment order by sending a copy thereof by registered post arid such posting shall be deemed to be conclusive
evidence of service.
(6)
If the person or his agent, or any adult member of his house, be found unwilling to accept the copy of the assessment
order, or to sign acknowledgement, or avoid service, or if he resides ordinarily outside the Collector's jurisdiction i his
address is not known, then the copy of the assessment order may be served by affixing it in any conspicuous part of the
property to which it relates. A return by the serving officer stating the date of such service attested by two persons
present at the time of service shall be conclusive proof of such service.
4.
Manner of appeal under Section 5 against the assessment made by the Collector.
(1)
Any appeal against the assessment made by the Collector shall be filed in writing affixed with a Court-fee stamp of Rs.
400 only within clear 30 days from the date of service of the assessment order under sub-rules (3), (4), (5) or (6) or Rule
3, as the case may be. In computing the period of filing the appeal, the time taken in obtaining a copy of assessment
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Assam Betterment Fee and Mooring Tax (Dibrugarh) Rules, 1962
order shall be excluded.
(2)
The appeal shall be addressed to the Assam Board of Revenue.
(3)
The Assam Board of Revenue shall give the appellant an opportunity of being heard before disposing of the appeal. The
order of the Assam Board of Revenue shall be final.
(4)
The Collector shall modify the assessment according to the orders of the Assam Board of Revenue, where it does not
uphold his assessment.
5.
The number of instalments and the time and manner of payment of fee.
(1)
The annual fee shall be paid in two instalments,-
(a)
first half of the fee, by he 15th September, and
(b)
the remaining half, by the 15th February of each financial year.
(2)
The State Government may by order appoint any Officer or a Mouzadar or Mouzadars for collection of the fee, and it
shall be the duty of every person assessed to the fee to pay it to such Officer or Mouzadar or Mouzadars, as the case
may be, or to his duly authorised agent, who shall after furnishing the necessary receipt in acknowledgement of the fee
collected, deposit the same into the local treasury immediately.
6.
Time within which the notice of change in the valuation of the property shall be given under Section 9.
- The time within which the owner of the property shall be notice to the Collector, of any change affecting its valuation
whether by demolition, construction or reconstruction of any building or otherwise shall be 30 days from the date of
completion of such change.
7.
The manner of giving notice of transfer of property.
- Whenever a transfer of property takes place, the transferor and the transferee shall inform the Collector about it by a
petition in writing. Where only a part of the property is transferred, the proportionate value of the part transferred as well
as of the part left with the owner shall also be stated. A copy of the document evidencing the transfer shall accompany
the petition.
8.
Manner of giving notice calling for particulars about property under Section 11.
- The notice required to be served under Section 11(1) shall be served in the manner provided in sub-rules (4), (5) and
(6) of Rule 3.
9.
(1)
For the purposes of calculating the mooring tax a day shall be reckoned from midnight.
(2)
The rate of tax payable for a part of a day shall be the same as that payable for a full day.
(3)
The owner of a steamer or a flat or any agent thereof shall in every calendar month submit a return to the Collector
showing therein-
(a)
the number of steamers or flats mooring at any place on the river within 400 yards of the flood protection works during
the period to which the return relates and
(b)
the date and hour of arrival and departure of every such steamer or flat, and
(c)
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Assam Betterment Fee and Mooring Tax (Dibrugarh) Rules, 1962
the carrying capacity of every such steamer or flat; and
(d)
any other information which may be called for by the Collector for the purpose of this rule.
(4)
The Collector or any other Officer authorised by him shall have the right to inspect any books of account and papers in
the possession of the owner or his agent relating to the mooring of steamers and fiats with a view to verifying the truth of
the information furnished in the return.
(5)
On the basis of the information given in the return, and after proper verification and after any further enquiries which the
Collector may deem necessary, the Collector shall pass order assessing the mooring tax payable for the period under
return.
(6)
For the purpose of determining the tax, the Collector may, if he deems it necessary, call upon the owner or his
authorised agent to appear before him or to produce any document which my be in his possession, and it shall be the
duty of the owner or his agent to so appear or produce the document.
(7)
The Collector shall, after assessment of the tax, serve a copy of the assessment order on the owner or his agent in the
manner provided in sub-rules (4), (5) and (6) of Rule 2 and it shall be the duty of the owner or the agent to pay the tax in
one instalment within 14 days of the receipt of the order. It shall be paid into the treasury by challans in triplicate under
the head "XVII - Irrigation, Navigation, Embankment and Drainage Work (Non-commercial) - B Navigation, Embankment
and Drainage Work-Owners Rate."
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4