
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Assam Court-Fees (Amendment) Act, 1963
The Assam Court-Fees (Amendment) Act, 1963
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/193775360/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
1
]
State of Assam - Act
The Assam Court-Fees (Amendment) Act, 1963
ASSAM
India
The Assam Court-Fees (Amendment) Act, 1963
Act 8 of 1963
Published on 23 April 1963
Commenced on 23 April 1963
[This is the version of this document from 23 April 1963.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Assam Court-Fees (Amendment) Act, 1963
Assam Act
No. 8 of 1963
Last Updated 11th February, 2020
Received the assent of the Governor on the 23rd April, 1963, published in the Assam Gazette, Extraordinary, dated the
26th April, 1963.
An Act further to amend the Court-Fees Act, 1870 in its application to Assam.
Preamble. - Whereas it is expedient further to amend the Court-Fees Act, 1870 (Act 7 of 1870), hereinafter called the
Principal Act, in its application to Assam, in the manner hereinafter appearing;
It is hereby enacted in the Fourteenth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
1.
Page 1/7
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Assam Court-Fees (Amendment) Act, 1963
Short title, extent and commencement.
(1)
This Act may be called the Assam Court-Fees (Amendment) Act, 1963.
(2)
It extends to the whole of Assam.
(3)
It shall come into force with effect from the First day of April, 1963.
2.
Amendment of Schedules I and II of the Act 7 of 1870.
- In the Principal Act-
(1)
In Schedule I, for Article numbers, 6, 7, 8 and 9 the following shall be substituted, namely:-
Number
Proper Fee
"6.
Copy of translation of a judgment or order not
being, or having the force of, a decree
When such judgment or order is passed by any
Civil Court other than a High Court, or by the Presiding Officer
of any Revenue Court or Officer, or by any other Judicial or
executive Authority-
(a) If the amount or value of the
subject-matter is fifty or less than fifty rupees
One rupee
(b) If such amount or value exceeds fifty
rupees
Two rupees
When such judgment or order is passed by a High
Court
Four rupees.
7.
Copy of a decree or order having force of a decree
When such decree or order is made by any Civil
Court other than a High Court, or by any Revenue Court-
(a) If the amount or value of the
subject-matter of the suit wherein such decree or order is made
is fifty or less than fifty rupees
Two rupees
(b) If such amount or value exceeds fifty
rupees
Three rupees.
When such decree or order is made by a High
Court
Seven rupees and fifty naye paise.
8.
Copy of any document liable to stamp-duty under
the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 (Act 2 of 1899), when left by any
party to a suit or proceeding in place of the original withdrawn
(a) When the stamp-duty chargeable on the
original does not exceed one rupee
The amount of the duty chargeable on the
Page 2/7
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Assam Court-Fees (Amendment) Act, 1963
original.
(b) In any other case
One rupee.
9.
Copy of any revenue or judicial proceeding or
order not otherwise provided for by this Act, or copy of any
account, statement, report or the like, taken out of any Civil
or Criminal or Revenue Court or Office, or from the office of
any chief officer charged with the executive administration of a
Division
For every three hundred and sixty words or
fraction of three hundred and sixty words
One rupee."
(2)
For Schedule II, the following shall be substituted, namely:
"Schedule II
Fixed Fees
Number
Proper Fee
1.
Application or petition
(a) When presented to any officer of the Customs or Excise
Department or to any Magistrate by any person having dealings
with the Government, and when the subject-matter of such
application relates exclusively to those dealings; or
Fifty naye paise
when presented to any Municipal Board or other local
authority constituted under any Act for the time being in force
for the conservancy or improvement of any place, if the
application or petition relates solely to such conservancy or
improvement; or
when presented to any Civil Court other than a principal
Civil Court of original jurisdiction, or to any Court of Small
Causes constituted under Act No. 11 of 1865 or under Act No. 16
of 1868, Section 20 or to a Collector or other officer of
revenue in relation to any suit or case in which the amount or
value of the subject-matter is less than fifty rupees; or when
presented to any Civil, Criminal or Revenue Court, or to any
Board or executive officer for the purpose of obtaining a copy
or translation of any judgment, decree or order passed by such
Court, Board or officer, or of any other document on record in
such Court or Office.
(b) When presented in a Regional Transport Authority or State
Transport Authority containing a prayer for permit for Contract
Carriage, Stage Carriage, Private Carrier or Public Carrier or
for any other purpose.
Seven rupees and fifty naye paise
(c) When containing a complaint or charge of any offence
other than an offence for which police officer may, under the
Criminal Procedure Code, arrest without warrant and presented to
any Criminal Court; or
Page 3/7
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Assam Court-Fees (Amendment) Act, 1963
In the case of a complaint or charge of an offence
presented to a criminal court or in the case of an application
or petition presented to any officer of land revenue by any
person holding temporarily settled land under direct engagement
with Government, and when the subject-matter of the application
or petition relates exclusively to such engagement-one rupees
and fifty paise and in other case one rupee.
when presented to a Civil, Criminal or Revenue Court, or to a
Collector or any revenue officer having jurisdiction equal or
subordinate to a Collector, or to any Magistrate in his
executive capacity, and not otherwise provided for by the Act,
or to deposit in Court as revenue or rent; or for determination
by a Court of the amount of compensation to be paid by a
landlord to his tenant; or
when presented to a Collector or other officer making a
settlement of land revenue, or to a Board of Revenue, or a
Commissioner of Revenue, relating to matters connected with the
assessment of land or the ascertainment of rights thereto or
interest therein, if presented previous to the final
confirmation of such settlement; or
when presented to any officer of land revenue by any person
holding temporarily settled land under direct engagement with
Government, and when the subject-matter of the application or
petition relates exclusively to such engagement.
(d) When presented to a Chief Commissioner or other Chief
Controlling Revenue or Executive Authority, or to a Commissioner
of Revenue or Circuit, or to any chief officer charged with the
executive administration a Division and not otherwise provided
for by this Act.
Three rupees.
(e) When presented to a High Court.
Six rupees.
(f) When presented to any officer containing prayer for
settlement of fishery, ferry, forest produce, forest mahals,
elephant mahals, or an officer giving terms for acceptance of
Government for any construction or an application for a permit
or licence to deal in controlled commodities.
Seven rupees and fifty naye paise.
(g) When presented to an Appropriate Revenue Authority for
demarcation of land-
(i) when the area of such land does not exceed one hectare
Two rupees.
(ii) for each subsequent area of one hectare or part thereof
One rupee.
1-A.
Application to any Civil Court that records may be called for
from another Court
When the Court grants the application and is of opinion that
the transmission of such record involves the use of the post.
One rupee and fifty naye paise in addition to any
fee levied on the application under CT (a), Clause (c) or Clause
Page 4/7
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Assam Court-Fees (Amendment) Act, 1963
(e) of Article 1 of this Schedule.
2.
Application for leave sue as a pauper
One rupee.
3.
Application for leave to appeal as a pauper
(a) When presented to a District Court.
Two rupees.
(b) When presented to a Commissioner or a High Court.
Three rupees.
4.
.....
5.
Plaint or memorandum of appeal in a suit to establish or
disprove a right of occupancy
6.
Bail-bound or other instrument of obligation given in
pursuance of an order made by a Court or Magistrate under any
section of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (Act 5 of 1898)
or the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, (Act 5 of 1908) and not
otherwise provided for by this Act
One rupee.
7.
Undertaking under Section 49 of the Indian Divorce Act, 1869
(Act 4 of 1869)
8.
.....
9.
.....
10.
Mukhtarnama or Wakalatnama
When presented for the conduct of any one case-
(a) to any Civil or Criminal Court other than a High Court,
or to any Revenue Court, or to any Collector or Magistrate, or
other executive officer except such as are mentioned in Cls. (b)
and (c) of this number
One rupee.
(b) to a Commissioner of Revenue, Circuit or Customs Officer
or to any officer charged with the executive administration of a
Division, not being the Chief Revenue or Executive Authority
Two rupees and fifty naye paise.
(c) to a High Court, Chief Commissioner, Board of Revenue, or
other Chief Controlling Revenue or executive authority or an
appellate authority prescribed under the Motor Vehicles Act,
1939 (Act 4 of 1939) or to an appellate authority prescribed
under the Assam Sales Tax Act, 1947 (Assam Act 17 of 1947).
Five rupees.
11.
Memorandum of appeal when the appeal is not from a decree or
an order having the force of a decree, and is presented
(a) to any Civil Court other than a High Court, or to any
Page 5/7
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Assam Court-Fees (Amendment) Act, 1963
Revenue Court or executive officer other than the High Court or
Chief Controlling Revenue or Executive Authority except an
authority specified in Clause (b)
Three rupees.
(b) to an Excise Appellate Authority under Rule 340 of the
Assam Excise Rules
Fifteen rupees.
(c) to a High Court or Chief Commissioner, or other Chief
Controlling Executive or Revenue Authority except an authority
prescribed in Clause (b)
Ten rupees.
(d) to an Excise Appellate Authority under Rule 341 of the
Assam Excise Rules
Fifty rupees.
(e) to a High Court in Miscellaneous revenue matters except
(f) below or to an appellate authority prescribed under the
Motor Vehicles Act, 1939 (Act 4 of 1939)
Fifteen rupees.
(f) to a High Court in appeal and revision matters arising
out of settlement of fisheries-
(i) when the bid money is below ten thousand rupees
Fifteen rupees
(ii) when the bid money is above ten thousand rupees but
below twenty thousand rupees
Twenty-five rupees.
(iii) when the bid money is above twenty thousand rupees
Thirty rupees.
12.
Caveat
Ten rupees.
13.
Application under Act No. 10 of 1859, Section 26, or Bengal
Act No. 6 of 1862, Section 9, or Bengal Act No. 8 of 1869,
Section 37
Five rupees.
14.
Petition in suit under the Native Converts' Marriage
Dissolution Act, 1866 (Act 21 of 1866)
Five rupees.
15.
....
16.
....
17.
Plaint or memorandum of appeal in each of the following
suits:
(i)
to alter or set aside a summary decision or order of any of
the Civil Courts not established by Letters Patent or any
Revenue Court;
(ii)
Page 6/7
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Assam Court-Fees (Amendment) Act, 1963
to alter or cancel any entry in a register of the names of
proprietors of revenue-paying estates
Fifteen rupees.
(iii)
to obtain a declaratory decree where no consequential relief
is prayed
Twenty rupees
(iv)
to set aside an award
Fifteen rupees.
(v)
to set aside an adoption
Twenty rupees.
(vi)
every other suit where it is not possible to estimate at a
money-value the subject-matter in dispute, and which is not
otherwise provided for by this Act.
Fifteen rupees.
18.
Application under under Section 14 or Section 20 of the
Indian Arbitration Act, 1940 (Act 10 of 1940), for a direction
for filing an award or for an order for filing an agreement
When presented to a Munsif's Court
Fifteen rupees.
When presented to any other Court
Fifty rupees.
19.
Agreement in writing stating a question for the opinion of
the Court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Act 5 of
1908)
Fifteen rupees
20.
Every petition under the Indian Divorce Act, 1869 (Act 4 of
1869) except petitions under Section 44 of the same Act, and
every memorandum of appeal under Section 55 of the same Act.
Twenty rupees.
21.
Plaint or memorandum of appeal under the Parsi Marriage and
Divorce Act, 1865 (Act 15 of 1865).
Twenty rupees
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 7/7