
----- PAGE 1 -----
Assam Gur Dealers Licensing Order, 1963
Assam Gur Dealers Licensing Order, 1963
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/78770931/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Assam - Act
Assam Gur Dealers Licensing Order, 1963
ASSAM
India
Assam Gur Dealers Licensing Order, 1963
Rule ASSAM-GUR-DEALERS-LICENSING-ORDER-1963 of 1963
Published on 1 January 1963
Commenced on 1 January 1963
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 1963.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Assam Gur Dealers Licensing Order, 1963
Last Updated 12th February, 2020
1.
Short title, extent and commencement.
(1)
This Order may be called the Assam Gur Dealers Licensing Order, 1963.
(2)
It extends to the whole of the State of Assam.
(3)
It shall come into force at once.
2.
Page 1/6
----- PAGE 2 -----
Assam Gur Dealers Licensing Order, 1963
Definitions.
(a)
"Import" means to take or cause to be taken into any place within the State of Assam, the Tribal Areas specified in Part
'B' of the table appended to paragraph 20 of the Sixth Schedule to the Constitution and the Union Territories of Manipur
and Tripura, from any place outside it.
(b)
"Export" means to take or cause to be taken from any place within the region mentioned in Clause (a) above to any
place outside that region.
(c)
"Denier" means a person engaged in the business of purchase, sale or storage for sale of gur in quantities exceeding 50
quintals at any one time, but does not include an industrial undertaking which is registered or licensed under the
Industrial (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951.
(d)
"form" means a form set forth in the Schedule to this Order.
(e)
"Licensing Authority" means an officer appointed by the State Government to exercise the powers and perform the
duties of the licensing authority under this Order.
(f)
"State Government" means the Government of the State of Assam.
(g)
"Gur" means the article commonly known as Gur, Gul, Jaggery, Shakkar and Rab and includes uncrystallised Gur in any
other form comprising original and convertible molasses and other impurities inherent or foreign, prepared by boiling
sugarcane juice with or without admixture molasses or pure molasses.
3.
Licensing of dealers.
(1)
No person shall carry on business as a dealer of gur within the State of Assam except under and in accordance with the
terms and conditions of licence issued in this behalf by the Licensing Authority.
(2)
No person shall import or export gur except under and in accordance with the terms and conditions of permit issued in
this behalf by the Licensing Authority.
For the purpose of this clause, any person who stores gur in any quantity exceeding 25 quintals at any one time shall,
unless the contrary is proved, be deemed to store gur for the purposes of sale.
4.
Issue of licence.
(1)
Every application for a licence or renewal thereof shall be made to the Licensing Authority in Form 'A'.
(2)
Every licence issued or renewed under this Order shall be in Form 'B' and every permit issued or renewed shall be in
Form 'C' and shall be subject to the conditions specified therein.
5.
Period of licence sand fees chargeable.
(1)
Every licence issued under this Order shall be valid from the date of issue to the 31st December following and may
thereafter be renewed for a further period of one year at a time.
(2)
The fees specified below shall be chargeable in respect of each licence, namely :
For issue of dealer's licence-Rs. 5.
For issue of import or export permit-Rs. 5.
For renewal of licence-Rs. 2.
For issue of a duplicate licence/permit-Rs. 10.
Page 2/6
----- PAGE 3 -----
Assam Gur Dealers Licensing Order, 1963
6.
Power to refuse licence.
- The Licensing Authority may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, refuse to grant or renew a licence.
7.
Contravention of conditions of licence.
- Any contravention of any of the terms and conditions of the licence issued under this Order shall make the licence
liable to cancellation or suspension by orders in writing of the Licensing Authority without prejudice to any other action
that may be taken against the licensee :
Provided that no order shall be made under this clause unless the licensee has been given an opportunity of stating his
case in writing against the proposed cancellation or suspension.
8.
Appeal.
- Any person aggrieved by any order of the Licensing Authority refusing to issue or renew a licence or cancelling or
suspending a licence under the provisions of this Order may appeal to the State Government within 30 days of the date
of the receipt by him of such order.
9.
Powers of entry, seizure, etc.
(1)
The Licensing Authority or any other officer authorised by the State Government in the behalf may, with such
assistance, if any, as he thinks fit-
(a)
require the owner, occupier or any other person in charge of any place, premises, vehicle, or vessel in which he has
reason to believe that any contravention of the provision of this Order or of the conditions of any licence or permit issued
thereunder has been, is being or is about to be committed, to produce any book, account or other document showing
transactions relating to such contravention;
(b)
enter, inspect or break open and search any place or premises, vehicle or vessel in which he has reason to believe that
any contravention of the provisions of this Order or of the conditions of any licence or permit issued thereunder, has
been, is being or is about to be committed ;
(c)
take or cause to be taken extract from or copies of any document showing transactions relating to such contraventions ;
(d)
search, seize and remove stocks of gur and the animals, vehicles, vessel, or other conveyance used in carrying the said
gur in contravention of the provisions of this Order or of the condition of the licence or permit issued thereunder and
thereafter take or authorise the taking of all measures necessary for securing the production of stocks of gur and the
animals, vehicles, vessels or other conveyances so seized, in a Court and for their safe custody pending such
production.
(2)
The provisions of Sections 102 and 103 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898, relating to search and seizure shall,
so far as may be, apply to searches and seizures under this clause.
Schedule
Form 'A'
[See Clause 4 (1)]
Application for Licence/Permit
1. Applicant's name...........
2. Applicant's profession........
3. Applicant's residence.........
4. Situation of applicant's place or places of business with particulars as to number of houses, mohalla, town or village,
police station and district.......
5. [ The State, district, mohalla, town or village from/to which the applicant proposes to import/export gur and
quantity..............]
Page 3/6
----- PAGE 4 -----
Assam Gur Dealers Licensing Order, 1963
[Strike off the clauses and words not applicable.]
6. [ The route (rail, road or steamer) by which the applicant proposes to import/export gur.................]
[Strike off the clauses and words not applicable.]
7. How long the applicant has been trading in gur ?.........
8. Did the applicant hold gur licence on any previous occasion ? (If so, give particulars including its suspension or
cancellation, if any)..
9. Quantities of gur handled annually during the last three years (November-October)...........
10.
Income-tax paid in the two years pending the year of application (to be indicated separately)..........
(1)
...........
(2)
.............
11.
Quantity of gur in the possession of the applicant on the date of application and the places at which different quantities
are kept...........
I declare that the quantities of gur specified above are in my possession this day and are held at the places noted
against them.
I have carefully read the conditions of licence given in Form 'B' appended to the Assam Gur Dealers strike off Licencing
Order, 1963, and I agree to abide by them.
(a)
[ I have not previously applied for a licence in this District under this Order;]
[Strike off the clauses and words not applicable.]
(b)
I applied for such licence in this district for...............on.......and was/was not granted a licence on...........
(c)
[ I hereby apply for renewal of licence No dated issued to me on............]
[Strike off the clauses and words not applicable.]
Place............
Date.............
Signature of the Applicant
Form 'B'
[See Clause 4 (2)]
Licence for purchase, sale or storage of gur (or sale Licence No)
1. Subject to the provisions of the Assam Gur Dealers' Licensing Order, 1963 and the terms and conditions of this
Licence is/are hereby authorised to purchase, sale or storage gur for sale.
2. The licensee shall carry on the aforesaid business at the following place :
3. (i) The licensee shall maintain a register of daily accounts for gur showing correctly-
(a)
the opening stock on each day ;
(b)
the quantities received on each day showing the place from where and the source from which received ;
(c)
the quantities delivered or otherwise removed on each day showing places of destination ; and
(d)
the closing stock on each day.
(ii)
The licensee shall complete his accounts for each day on the day which they relate, unless prevented by reasonable
cause the burden of proving which shall be open to him.
(iii)
Separate register shall be maintained for import and export of gur.
Page 4/6
----- PAGE 5 -----
Assam Gur Dealers Licensing Order, 1963
4. The licensee shall submit to the licensing authority concerned a true return, in Form D, of the stocks, receipts and
deliveries of gur every fortnight (1st to 15th and 16th to end of the month) so as to reach him within five days after the
close of the fortnight.
5. The licensee shall issue to every customer a correct receipt or invoice, as the case may be, giving his own name,
address and licence number, the name, address, the licence number (if any) of the customer, the date of transaction,
the quantity sold, the price per quintal and the total amount charged and shall keep a duplicate of the same to be
available for inspection on demand by the licensing authority or any other officer authorised by him in this behalf.
6. The licensee shall give all facilities at all reasonable times to the licensing authority or any officer authorised by the
State Government for the inspection of his stocks and accounts at any shop, godown or other place used by him for the
storage, sale or purchase of gur and for the taking of samples of gur for examination.
7. The licensee shall comply with any direction that may be given to him by the State Government or the licensing
authority in regard to purchase, sale and storage for sale of gur in regard to the language in which the register, returns,
receipts or invoices mentioned in paragraphs 3, 4 or 5 shall be written and authentication and maintenance of the
register mentioned in paragraph 3.
8. This licence shall be attached to any application for renewal.
9. This licence shall be valid up to............
Place.........
Date..........
Signature of the Officer issuing the licence
Form 'C'
[See Clause 4 (2)]
Permit for import/export of gur
Permit No..........
Subject to the provisions of the Assam Gur Dealers' Licensing Order, 1963 and to the terms and conditions of this
Permit.......................is/are hereby authorised to export/import quintals of gur from/into................to/from.........
This permit will remain valid for thirty days with effect from the date of issuing as specified below.
Place.........
Date..........
Licensing Authority
Form 'D'
[See Condition 4 of Form B]
(for use by a Dealer)
Return of stocks, receipts and sales of gur for the fortnight ending 20....................................
Name................
No. of licence.
Address...........
Particulars of godowns where stock held and quantity in stock in each quality of gur in stock in bags/quintals.
Particulars of godowns
Quantity in stock bags/quintals
Remarks, if any
1.
2.
3.
1. Stock at the beginning of the fortnight-
(a)
actually with the licensee bags/quintals.
(b)
pledged with any person or institution such as a bank or a co-operative society bags/quintals.
Total...........bags/quintals
2. Quantity purchased and imported during the fortnight
Name of the State, Town and the factory from
Page 5/6
----- PAGE 6 -----
Assam Gur Dealers Licensing Order, 1963
which purchased
Quantity (in bags/quintals)
(i)(ii)(iii)(iv)
Total..............
3. Quantity received out of quantity purchased
From (name of the State, Town and the factory)
Quantity (in bags/quintals)
Date of purchase
(i)(ii)(iii)(iv)
Total.............
4. Quantity sold or exported :
(a)
Quantity sold/and delivered/removed/exported during the fortnight..............bags/quintals.
(b)
Name of the State, Town, Village to which exported.........
(c)
Quantity sold but not yet delivered/exported........
Total sold bags/quintals.
5. Stock at the end of the fortnight-
(a)
actually with the licensee-
(i)
unsold......
(ii)
sold but awaiting delivery............
(b)
pledged with any other person or institution such as a bank or a co-operative society.
Total.......
Licensing Authority
District
Place........
Date: Shillong
Signature
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 6/6