
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Assam Board of Revenue Rules, 1963
The Assam Board of Revenue Rules, 1963
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/36376648/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Assam - Act
The Assam Board of Revenue Rules, 1963
ASSAM
India
The Assam Board of Revenue Rules, 1963
Rule THE-ASSAM-BOARD-OF-REVENUE-RULES-1963 of 1963
Published on 19 August 1963
Commenced on 19 August 1963
[This is the version of this document from 19 August 1963.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Assam Board of Revenue Rules, 1963
Published vide, Government Notification No. SS 42/60/63, dated 19th August, 1963
Last Updated 10th February, 2020
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Assam Board of Revenue Rules, 1963.
(2)
They shall come into force at once.
2.
In these rules, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context-
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Assam Board of Revenue Rules, 1963
(a)
The 'Act' means the Assam Board of Revenue Act, 1962 (Assam Act No. XXI of 1962.
(b)
The 'Board' means the Board constituted under the Assam Board of Revenue Act, 1962
3.
Salary.
(1)
The salary of the Chairman of the Board shall be Rs. 2,250 per month and the salary of the other members shall be-
(a)
if they are appointed from the Indian Administrative Service or Assam Judicial Service or the Assam Legal Service, their
grade pay in the service plus a special pay as admissible to the Secretaries to the Government of Assam; provided that
the total employments of such member does not exceed Rs. 2,150 per month;
(b)
if they are or any of them is appointed from outside the Government to a maximum of Rs. 2,000 per month :
Provided that if a person is appointed as Chairman of the Board from the Indian Administrative Service and before such
appointment he was drawing a monthly salary exceeding Rs. 2,250 his salary as Chairman of the Board shall be fixed
by special orders of the Government.
(2)
The salary of a retired Government servant appointed as Chairman or member, shall be regulated in accordance with
Rule 60-A of the Assam Pension Manual. His pension shall be held in abeyance during the tenure of his office as such:
Provided, however, that a Government servant-
(a)
who has retired or retires under the old pension rules and whose pension is held in abeyance during re-employment as
Chairman or Members and who commutes a portion of his pension; or
(b)
who retires under the liberalised Pension Rules and apart of whose pension is paid to him as retirement gratuity and
who further commutes a portion of his pension either before or during re-employment as Chairman or Member and
whose pension is held in abeyance during re-employment; or
(c)
who belongs to All India Services and has retired or retires under the Superior Civil Service (Revision of Pay, Passage
and Pension) Rules, read with the liberalised Pension Rules of Central Government, as the case may be, and whose
pension is held in abeyance during re-employment as Chairman or Member and who commutes a portion of his pension;
shall receive a salary reduced by the amount of pension and/or the pension equivalent to the amount of the retirement
gratuity, as the case may be, with effect from the date on which the commutation becomes absolute or gratuity becomes
payable.
4.
Leave and travelling allowance.
- The Chairman and the Member of the Board appointed from Indian Administrative Service shall be entitled to leave
and travelling allowance according to the rules applicable to the member so the Indian Administrative Service (Senior
Scale) in the State of Assam. In case they are appointed other than from, the Indian Administrative Service their leave
and travelling allowance shall be governed by the provisions of the State Rules.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2