
----- PAGE 1 -----
Gauhati University Travelling Allowance Rules, 1966
Gauhati University Travelling Allowance Rules, 1966
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/32369323/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Assam - Act
Gauhati University Travelling Allowance Rules, 1966
ASSAM
India
Gauhati University Travelling Allowance Rules, 1966
Rule GAUHATI-UNIVERSITY-TRAVELLING-ALLOWANCE-RULES-1966 of 1966
Published on 1 January 1966
Commenced on 1 January 1966
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 1966.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Gauhati University Travelling Allowance Rules, 1966
Last Updated 11th February, 2020
(As amended up to date)
1.
These Rules may be called the Gauhati University Travelling Allowance Rules, 1966.
These shall come into force from such date as the Executive Council may by a resolution direct.
2.
Definitions.
- In these Rules unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context-
(i)
'University' means the Gauhati University.
Page 1/7
----- PAGE 2 -----
Gauhati University Travelling Allowance Rules, 1966
(ii)
'Court', 'Executive Council', 'Academic Council', 'Faculties' means respectively the 'Court', 'Executive Council', 'Academic
Council', and 'Faculties' of the Gauhati University.
(iii)
'Members' means members of the authorities and committees of the University other than employees of the University.
(iv)
'Employees' for the purposes of these Rules means officers, teachers, clerical staff and employees of similar cadres and
employees below the rank of office assistants of the University and includes a person temporarily appointed for a
specific purpose on a fixed remuneration.
(v)
'Heads of administrative Departments' means the Registrar, the treasurer, the Secretary, University Classes and the
Controller of Examinations.
(vi)
'Controlling Officer' means the Vice-Chancellor of the University.
(vii)
'Affiliated colleges' means colleges affiliated to the Gauhati University.
(viii)
'Usual place of residence or business' or 'headquarters' means the place where a person ordinarily resides or carries on
business for at least six months in a year.
(ix)
'Day' means a calendar day beginning and ending at mid-night; but absence from headquarters which does not exceed
twenty-four hours shall be reckoned for the purpose of daily allowance as one day at whatever hours the absence
begins or ends.
(x)
'Pay' means the monthly substantive pay of an employee.
(xi)
'Public conveyance' means a train, steamer, or other conveyance which plies regularly for the conveyance of
passengers.
(xii)
Words and expressions not defined in these Rules shall have the same meanings as in the Gauhati University Act,
1947.
3.
Different kinds of travelling allowance.
- The following are the different kinds of traveling allowance which may be drawn in different circumstances by the
members or employees :
(a)
Daily of allowance.
(b)
Mileage allowance.
(c)
Actual cost of travelling and halting outside headquarters.
4.
For the purpose of traveling allowance, member and employees are divided into the following grades :
Grade
Daily Allowance
(1) Senior grade :
Rs. 12.50
(i)
Members of the authorities of the University as defined under Section 7 of the Gauhati University Act, 1947 as amended
up to date and of any other committee appointed by any of the authorities of the University.
(ii)
Page 2/7
----- PAGE 3 -----
Gauhati University Travelling Allowance Rules, 1966
Distinguished educationists, visiting professors or other persons specially invited to address convocations.
(iii)
Employees of the University whose basic pay is Rs. 1,000 and above.
(2) First grade :
Rs. 10.50
(i)
Employees of the University whose basic pay is Rs. 700 and above but below Rs. 1,000.
(ii)
Members of Committees of Courses and Studies.
(iii)
Members of University Boards.
(iv)
Head Examiners, Zonal Officers, External Practical Examiners, Chairman of the Board of Examiners in Degree and
higher examinations, Officers deputed by the u to conduct or supervise examinations at centres, tabulators, moderators
and persons other than employees of the University and of the affiliated colleges temporarily engaged in connection with
University examinations on fixed remuneration.
(3) Second grade :
Rs. 7.00
Employees of the University whose basic pay is Rs. 300 and above but below Rs. 700.
(4) Third grade :
Rs. 5.00
Employees other than 4th grade employees of the u whose basic pay is Rs. 125 and above but below Rs. 500.
(5) Fourth grade :
Rs. 2.50
All employees of the University below the rank of assistants.
5.
(i)
No daily allowance will be admissible to a member or an employee unless he spends a night outside the headquarters.
(ii)
Daily allowance may not be drawn for any day on which a member or an employee does not reach a point outside a
radius of fifteen kilometers from his headquarters or return to his headquarters from a similar point.
(iii)
The rate so daily allowance shown in Section 4 are admissible in the State of Assam. A member or an employee while
on tour outside the State of Assam may draw daily allowance at double the rate admissible to him under Section 4.
Notwithstanding anything contained in Rule 5(i) and (ii) above, a member whose headquarters or place of residence is
at Gauhati shall he entitled to draw daily allowance admissible to him under the rules in lieu of mileage allowance for
attending meetings of the University at Jalukbari from Gauhati.
(iv)
No travelling allowance is admissible for journeys within a radius of 8 kilometers from residence or headquarters.
(v)
Principals and teachers of affiliated colleges and other persons within the State of Assam and Manipur temporarily
engaged as Head Examiner, Chairman of the Board of Examiners in Degree and higher examinations, officers to
conduct or to superise examinations at examination centres or external practical examiners shall be governed by the
rules applicable to University employees according to their substantive pay in the post held by them.
(vi)
Daily allowance may not be drawn for a continuous halt for more than ten days at one place :
Provided that the controlling officer may grant general or individual exemption from the operation of this rule on such
conditions as he thinks fit, if he is satisfied that such prolonged halfs are necessary in the interest of the University;
Provided also that daily allowance after the first thirty days shall be reduce to three-fourths of the rate admissible under
Section 4 and Section 5(iii).
(vii)
Page 3/7
----- PAGE 4 -----
Gauhati University Travelling Allowance Rules, 1966
In case of halt on tour half the daily allowance may be drawn in addition to mileage allowance on the day of arrival of the
member or employee at the place of halt and on the day of departure ; provided that no daily allowance will be
permissible in respect of a place of halt from which the member or employee departs on the same day on which he
arrived at it.
Note. - (1) The day of arrival and the day of departure shall he treated as one day and must be included within the limit
of ten days for the purpose of Section 5 (vi) :
Provided that if the return journey is made on the day next to the day of arrival and the total absence from headquarters
exceeds twenty-four hours it shall be considered as one day and a half for the purpose of daily allowance.
(2)
The expression place of halt in the above rules does not include a temporary halt at a railway or State Transport station
or airport in the course of a journey ; provided that if such halt at a railway or State Transport junction or airport exceeds
twelve hours due to unavoidable circumstances the member or employee shall be entitled to draw the usual daily
allowance.
(viii)
In the case of halt on tour if a person is required to travel to a place on duty beyond 8 kilometers from the place of halt
he will be entitled to mileage allowance in addition to usual daily allowance.
Mileage Allowance-General
6.
A mileage allowance is an allowance calculated on the distance travelled which is given to meet the cost of a particular
journey :
(a)
For the purpose of calculating mileage allowance, a journey between two places is held to have been performed by the
shortest of two or more practicable routes, or by the cheapest of such routes as may be equally short ; provided that
when there are alternative railway routes and the difference between them in point of time and cost is not great, mileage
allowance should be calculated on the route actually used.
(b)
The shortest route is that by which the traveller can most speedily reach his destination by the ordinary modes of
travelling. In case of doubt the controlling officer may decide which shall be regarded as the shortest of the two or more
routes.
* * * * * *  * *
8.
The controlling officer may for special reasons to be recorded, permit mileage allowance to be calculated on a route
other than the shortest and the cheapest, provided that the journey is actually performed by such route.
9.
The point in any station at which a journey is held to commence or end is the chief public office or the Post Office.
10.
Mileage allowance is differently calculated as shown in the following rules, according as the journey is or could be made
by railway, by river steamer, by regular road transport service, by road or by air.
11.
Travelling allowance and mileage allowance for journey by railway shall be admissible to the various grades of
employees as hereunder :
(i)
Vice-Chancellor : 1-½ of Air conditioned or 1st Class
(ii)
Senior grade : 1-½ of 1st Class
(iii)
First grade : 1-½ of 1st Class
(iv)
Second grade : 1-½ of 2nd Class
(v)
Third grade : 1-½ of 2nd Class
Page 4/7
----- PAGE 5 -----
Gauhati University Travelling Allowance Rules, 1966
(vi)
Fourth grade : 1-½ of 3rd Class
Provided that lecturers of the University Departments and Principals and teachers of affiliated colleges shall be granted
1-½ of 1st Class fare.
12.
(i)
The mileage allowance for journey by road shall be as hereunder :
Grade
State Transport
Public vehicles other than State Transport
(paise per kilometer)
(1)
Senior grade : 1-½ of 1st Class
10
(2)
First grade : 1-½ of 1st Class
10
(3)
Second grade : 1-½ of 2nd Class
8
(4)
Third grade : 1-½ of Upper Class
6
(5)
Fourth grade : 1-½ of Lower Class
4
Provided that where recognised class of accommodation is not available in State Transport buses in any road, members
and employee of the senior, first and second class grades shall be entitled to double the rate of upper class fare
inclusive of incidentals till such time as the respective classes of accommodation are provided in these routes.
The rates prescribed for journeys by public vehicle other than State Transport will be admissible for journeys performed
by road by taking a single seat in a taxi or motor omnibus which charges fixed rates.
(ii)
The above rule shall also be applicable to all river steamer service.
13.
When a member or an employee travels by air with the approval of the controlling officer instead of by train, by road
transport or by steamer in order to save time or for some other reasons, he may draw one and a fourth of the actual
airfare. Otherwise if a member or an employee travels by air of his own accord he may draw either the actual expenses
for his journey by air or fare and mileage allowance admissible to him by train, by road transport or by steamer as the
case may be whichever is lower.
14.
Whenever available return ticket should be purchased when a person expects to perform the return journey by air within
the period during which a return ticket is available.
15.
When a person belonging to the Senior or First grade travels by his own car or by a friends car including a hired taxi
exclusivelysed for the purpose instead of by a public conveyance he may draw a mileage allowance at the rate of 15
paise per kilometer.
16.
The Vice-Chancellor of the University when on tour may draw daily allowance of Rs. 16 within the State of Assam and
Rs. 32 outside the State of Assam. If he travels by his own car he may draw mileage allowance under Rule 15 and if by
train, by steamer or by air he may draw mileage allowance admissible to a senior grade employee.
17.
Page 5/7
----- PAGE 6 -----
Gauhati University Travelling Allowance Rules, 1966
A College Inspector appointed from outside the State of Assam and Nagaland, Manipur, Tripura or N.F.E.A. may draw
mileage allowance admissible to a senior grade employee ; but persons from the aforesaid States and territories shall be
entitled to mileage and daily allowance at the rates admissible to the employee of the University according to their basic
pay in the posts held by them.
18.
Persons deputed by the University to attend All India Conference and persons placed in charge of academic execution
or field work outside the headquarters shall be entitled to draw the actual fare by the class of accommodation to which
such person is entitled and a daily allowance of Rs. 10 per day of travel and halt including the day of return to the
headquarters.
19.
When an employee of a lower grade is deputed to act in place of an employee of a higher grade, the former may draw
the travelling allowance admissible to the latter during the acting period.
20.
Notwithstanding the provision of Rule 5(1), a person travelling free in a car provided at the expense of the University or
in a car of another person shall not be entitled to any mileage allowance, but any one full daily allowance for such day or
part of a day of travel and halt including the day of return to headquarters.
21.
(i)
Scrutinisers of examination scripts, examiners required to receive or to deliver examination scripts to the University or a
zonal office, shall be entitled to draw fare and mileage allowance according to Rules 11 and 12 but no daily allowance.
(ii)
Persons from outside the State of Assam and Nagaland and Manipur, Tripura and N.E.F.A. called for interview for
selection for candidates for posts of Professors, Readers and Senior grade officers of the University shall be paid the
actual first class fare by railway or upper class fare by recognised road transport or steamer service but no daily
allowance and those called for interview for posts of Lecturers and other officers of the University shall be paid actual
second class fare by railway or upper class fare by recognised road transport but no daily allowance. In absence of
recognised public conveyance they will be entitled to road mileage admissible to first or second grade employees as the
case may be under Rule 12.
22.
A University employee suffering or suspected to be suffering from tuberculosis, cance or leprosy shall be paid travelling
allowance admissible to such employee under the foregoing rules for his journey to and from a Clinic or Sanatorium
within India for treatment and/or diagnosis subject to the approval of the Executive Council but no daily allowance.
23.
When a person not covered under the purview of Rule 4 is engaged in an honorary capacity for any specific work in the
University, the controlling officer may grant him travelling allowance for the journey undertaken by him according to the
ordinary rules for the journey of a University employee on tour, and for this purpose the controlling officer may declare
by general or special order the grade to which such a person shall be considered to belong.
24.
The Executive Council may grant on such condition as it thinks fit a monthly or daily conveyance allowance to any
University employee who is required to travel on duty or to attend duty at or within the radius of fifteen kilometers from
his residence, headquarters or place of halt under conditions which do not render him eligible to mileage or daily
allowance under the foregoing rules.
25.
When a student of the University is out on tour for academic excursion or filed work or for participating in All India
extramural activities on deputation from the University he shall be entitled to third class fare by railway or road transport
and daily allowance of Rs. 5 per day of travel and halt ; provided that no daily allowance shall be admissible to students
going on academic exesions and field work ; provided also that whenever available the facility of concessional fare
should be availed of.
26.
When an employee is deputed by the University to undergo a course of training or study he shall be entitled to draw the
fare and mileage allowance at rates admissible to him for his journey to and from the place of training or study but no
Page 6/7
----- PAGE 7 -----
Gauhati University Travelling Allowance Rules, 1966
daily allowance. He shall, however, be entitled to a deputation allowance equivalent to twenty per cent of his basic pay
for the period of training or study.
27.
Persons coming from outside Gauhati for the purpose of attending University meetings or performing other University
duties shall be entitled to halt at Gauhati and to draw mileage allowance by road under Rule 12 from the to Jalukbari.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 7/7