
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Assam Food (Restrictions on Service of Meals by Catering Establishments) Order, 1966
The Assam Food (Restrictions on Service of Meals by Catering
Establishments) Order, 1966
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/76001904/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Assam - Act
The Assam Food (Restrictions on Service of Meals by Catering Establishments) Order, 1966
ASSAM
India
The Assam Food (Restrictions on Service of Meals by Catering Establishments) Order, 1966
Rule
THE-ASSAM-FOOD-RESTRICTIONS-ON-SERVICE-OF-MEALS-BY-CATERING-ESTABLISHMENTS-ORDER-1966 of
1966
Published on 1 January 1966
Commenced on 1 January 1966
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 1966.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Assam Food (Restrictions on Service of Meals by Catering Establishments) Order, 1966
Last Updated 12th February, 2020
1.
(1)
This Order may be called the Assam Food (Restrictions on Service of Meals by Catering Establishments) Order, 1966.
(2)
It extends to the whole of Assam.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Assam Food (Restrictions on Service of Meals by Catering Establishments) Order, 1966
(3)
It shall come into force with immediate effect.
2.
In this Order unless the context otherwise requires-
(a)
"catering establishment" includes a hotel, restaurant, eating house, cafe, tea-shop, coffee stall, free feeding centre club,
boarding house, canteen, railway refreshment room or restaurant car and any other place of refreshment open to the
public ;
(b)
"substantial dish" means a dish described as such in the Schedule to this Order ;
(c)
"subsidiary dish" means a dish described as such in the Schedule to this Order;
(d)
"cereal" means and includes rice, wheat, maize and Bajra and products thereof.
3.
(1)
No proprietor or other person-in-charge of a catering establishment shall supply for consumption or offer or attempt to
supply for consumption, and no person shall obtain or consumer or attempt to obtain or consumer, at a catering
establishment at or for the purposes of a meal more than two courses, whether served successively in European style or
together in Indian style. The two courses shall consist of-
(i)
one substantial dish and one subsidiary dish ; or
(ii)
two subsidiary dishes.
(2)
No proprietor or other person-in-charge of a catering establishment shall keep open such catering establishment for
supply of any foodstuffs containing cereal after 3 p.m. on every Monday.
4.
Notwithstanding anything contained in Clause 3, the following may be supplied by any proprietor or any person-in-
charge of a catering establishment as part of a meal in addition to two courses, namely :
soup, bread, biscuits, jam, marmalade, fruit, including iced fruit, or vegetable juices, bhajji, papad, chatni, pickles, raita
preserves, onions celery, ghee, butter, cream, curd, cheese, butter-milk, sauce, custard dressings, and such other
condiments.
5.
Power of entry, search, seizure, etc.
(1)
For the effective enforcement of the provisions of this Order, all supply officers not below the rank of the Sub-Inspector
or a Police Officer of or above the rank of Sub-Inspector may, when he has reason to believe that a contravention of this
Order has been, is being or is to be committed, enter and search any premises, interrogate any person and seize any
article including their coverings or containers in respect of which he has reason to believe that a contravention has been,
is being, or is about to be committed.
(2)
The provisions of Sections 102 and 103 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898)[Now Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974) shall, so far as may be, apply to searches and seizures under this clause.
The Schedule
I. European or Chinese type. - (a) A substantial dish shall be one consisting mainly of-(1) fish, or (2) meat or (3) poultry,
or (4) game, or (5) curry and rice, or (6) pulao, or (7) hors d'oever consisting of more than three items or of a
combination of any of them which in the normal practice is served at the same time as part of the same dish.
Note. - In all cases salad or not more than two vegetables may be served as part of the dish.
(b)
A subsidiary dish shall be any sweet dish or one consisting mainly of (1) vegetables, or (2) eggs, or (3) savouries, or (4)
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Assam Food (Restrictions on Service of Meals by Catering Establishments) Order, 1966
macaroni or spaphetti, or (5) porridge, grapenuts or any other breakfast cereal food, or (6) hors d'oever consisting of not
more than three items.
II. Indian non-vegetarian type. - (a) A substantial dish shall be one consisting mainly of either (1) meat, or (2) poultry, or
(3) fish, or (4) biriyani, or (5) curry or dal and rice, or (6) pulao, or of a combination of any of them which in the normal
practice is served at the same time as part of the same dish.
Note. - In all cases salad or not more than two vegetables may be served as part of the dish.
(b)
A subsidiary dish shall be any sweet dish or one consisting of either (1) chapatis, (2) parathas, (3) puris, or (4)
bhaktaries, or (5) eggs.
Note. - In all cases not more than two vegetables may be served as part of the dish.
III. Indian vegetarian type. - (a) A subsidiary dish shall be one consisting mainly of dal and rice.
(b)
A subsidiary dish shall be any sweet dish or one consisting of either (1) chapatis, or (2) puris, or (3) parathas, or (4)
bhakaris, or (5) thalipith.
Note. - In all cases not more than two vegetables may be served as part of dish.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3