
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Assam Civil Service (Class I) (Special Recruitment) Regulations, 1969
The Assam Civil Service (Class I) (Special Recruitment) Regulations,
1969
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/159089749/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Assam - Act
The Assam Civil Service (Class I) (Special Recruitment) Regulations, 1969
ASSAM
India
The Assam Civil Service (Class I) (Special Recruitment) Regulations, 1969
Rule THE-ASSAM-CIVIL-SERVICE-CLASS-I-SPECIAL-RECRUITMENT-REGULATIONS-1969 of 1969
Published on 14 November 1969
Commenced on 14 November 1969
[This is the version of this document from 14 November 1969.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Assam Civil Service (Class I) (Special Recruitment) Regulations, 1969
Published vide Notification No. AAP 135/68/49, dated the 14th November, 1969
Last Updated 11th February, 2020
Published in the Assam Gazette, Part II-A, dated the 19th November, 1969 at pp. 2847-49.
No. AAP 135/68/49, dated the 14th November, 1969. - In pursuance of sub-rule (2) of Rule 4 of the Assam Civil Service
(Class I) Rules, 1960, the Governor of Assam hereby makes the following regulations:
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Assam Civil Service (Class I) (Special Recruitment) Regulations, 1969
These regulations may be called The Assam Civil Service (Class I) (Special Recruitment) Regulation, 1969.
(2)
They shall come into force at once.
2.
Definitions.
(1)
In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires-
(a)
"Board" means the Special Selection Board constituted in accordance with regulation 3.
(b)
"Commission" means the Assam Public Service Commission.
(c)
"Government" means the Government of Assam.
(d)
"Governor" means the Governor of Assam.
(e)
"Service" means the Assam Civil Service (Class I).
(2)
All other words and expressions used in these regulations but not defined, shall have the meanings respectively
assigned to them in the Assam Civil Service (Class I) Rules, 1960.
3.
Constitution of the Special Selection Board.
- For the purpose of recruitment to the service under these regulations, there shall be a Special Selection Board
consisting of the following, namely:
Chairman
(a)
The Chairman of the Assam Public Service Commission or a Member appointed by him.
Members
(b)
The Chief Secretary to the Government.
(c)
Commissioner of Hills Division.
(d)
Commissioner of Lower Assam Division
(e)
Commissioner or Upper Assam Division.
(f)
Secretary to the Government, Revenue Department.
(g)
Secretary to the Government, Development (P. & C.D.) Department.
(h)
Secretary to the Government, Personnel Department or any other Officer of the Personal Department nominated by the
Chief Secretary to transact any business in a meeting of the Selection Board, there shall be present at least five
members including the Chairman which shall form a quorum.
4.
Method of selection etc.
(1)
The Government shall call upon the Board to select from amongst the members of the Assam Civil Service Class II who
on the first day of January of that year have completed not less than eight years of continuous service in the Assam Civil
Service Class II.
(2)
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Assam Civil Service (Class I) (Special Recruitment) Regulations, 1969
The Board shall examine the Character Rolls of all the eligible members of the Assam Civil Service Class II and shall
also interview them, if considered, necessary, and shall prepare a list of such members of the Assam Civil Service Class
II who in its opinion are suitable for being appointed to the service.
(3)
The number of members of the Assam Civil Service Class II included in the list shall not be more than twice the number
of vacancies to be filled up under these regulations.
(4)
The election or inclusion in such list be based on merit and suitability in all respects with due regard to seniority.
(5)
The names of members of the Assam Civil Services Class II included in the list shall be arranged in order of their
seniority in the Assam Civil Service Class II:
Provided that any junior officer who in the opinion of the Board is of exceptional merit and suitability may be assigned a
place in the list higher than that of officers senior to him.
(5)
If in the process o selection, it is proposed to supersede any member of the Assam Civil Service Class II, the Board shall
record its reasons for the proposed supersession.
5.
Consultation with the Commission.
- The list prepared in accordance with regulation 4 shall be forwarded to the Commission by the Commission and,
unless it considers any change necessary-
(i)
the Character Rolls and other relevant papers of the members of the Assam Civil Service Class II included in the list.
(ii)
the Character Rolls and other relevant papers of the members of the Assam Civil Service Class II who are proposed to
be superseded by the recommendation made in the list together with the reasons recorded by the Board for the
proposed supersession.
(iii)
the observation of the Governor, if any, on the recommendation of the Board.
6.
Selection List.
(1)
The Commission shall consider the list prepared by the Board along with other documents received from the Governor;
or on receipt of other documents as may be called by the Commission and, unless it considers any change necessary,
approve the list.
(2)
If the Commission considers it necessary to make any change in the list prepared by the Board, the Commission shall
inform the Governor of the changes proposed and after taking into account the comments of the Governor thereto, if any
may approve the list finally with such modification, if any, as may, in its opinion, be just and proper.
(3)
The list as finally approved by the Commission shall form the Select List of the members of the Assam Civil Service
Class II and shall be forwarded to the Governor along with all the papers received under regulation 5 and under
sub-regulation (1), if any.
7.
Appointment to the service.
- Appointment of the members of the Assam Civil Service Class II to the Service shall be made by the Governor in order
in which their names appear in the Select List.
8.
Inter se seniority of Special Recruits.
- The Seniority inter se of the members of the service recruited under those regulations shall be in the order in which
their names are arranged in the Select List.
9.
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Assam Civil Service (Class I) (Special Recruitment) Regulations, 1969
Miscellaneous provision.
- Except as provided under these regulations, all matters, relating to probation, confirmation, pay, allowances, leave and
other conditions of service shall be regulated by the provisions under the Assam Civil Service (Class I) Rules, 1960 and
by the general rules framed under Art. 309 of the Constitution or continued to be force under Art. 372 of the Constitution
governing such matter.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4