
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Assam Fishery Subsidy to Private Fish Farmers and Piscicultural Society Rules, 1971
The Assam Fishery Subsidy to Private Fish Farmers and Piscicultural
Society Rules, 1971
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/36003042/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Assam - Act
The Assam Fishery Subsidy to Private Fish Farmers and Piscicultural Society Rules, 1971
ASSAM
India
The Assam Fishery Subsidy to Private Fish Farmers and Piscicultural Society Rules, 1971
Act 15 of 1971
Published on 1 January 1971
Commenced on 1 January 1971
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 1971.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Assam Fishery Subsidy to Private Fish Farmers and Piscicultural Society Rules, 1971
Assam Rule 15 of 1971
Last Updated 12th February, 2020
Preamble. - Whereas it is considered expedient to assist Fish Farmers and Pisciculture Societies to implement schemes
for increasing fish production in the private tanks and fisheries in the State and to give subsidy therefor in cash or in
kind;
Now, therefore, the Governor of Assam is pleased to make the following rules, namely:,
1.
Short title, extent and commencement.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Assam Fishery Subsidy to Private Fish Farmers and Piscicultural Society Rules, 1971
(1)
These rules may be called the Assam Fishery Subsidy to Private Fish Farmers and Piscicultural Society Rules, 1971.
(2)
They extend to the State of Assam.
(3)
They shall come into force with immediate effect.
2.
Subsidy will be granted to fish farmers and piscicultural societies for improvement and extension of water area of their
existing farms with a view to increasing output from such farms. No subsidy will be granted for opening a new farm
unless the party invests one-third of the estimated cost of the farm. Subsidies in such cases will be granted only on
satisfactory completion of one-third of the estimated work.
3.
Subsidy will be granted in cash o in kind as follows :
(a)
Subsidy will be granted in cash to fish farmers and piscicultural societies with water area of not less than one-sixth of an
acre at the rate of Rs. 1,000 per acre of water area subject to a maximum of Rs. 1,500 to individual fish farmers and Rs.
3,000 to piscicultural societies.
(b)
(i)
Subsidy will be granted in kind in the form of fish seeds of size not exceeding 1½ inch at the rate of 3,000 numbers per
acre and at the rate of 2,000 numbers in respect of fish seeds of size exceeding 1½ inch per acre of water area suitable
for stocking. Fifty per cent of the price fixed will be realised from the party and the balance fifty per cent of the price will
be borne by the Government. The party shall have to bear the cost of tin container, plastic, bag, gas, transportation, etc.
No concessions on these items will be admissible. Ten per cent mortality allowance in cash of fish seeds will, however,
be allowed free of cost.
(ii)
Fish seeds to be supplied will be of the variety of major carp i.e. Satla, Rahu, Mrigal, Malia, Ganious and also of
common carp. Subsidy will be granted in the form of mixed seeds of major carp and common carp depending on
availability of stock.
4.
(1)
No subsidy shall be granted without a local enquiry being made by the Superintendent of Fisheries or an Officer
subordinate to him not below the rank of Fisheries Officer.
(2)
Subsidy will be granted in one instalment in case of existing projects. In case of new projects, subsidy will be granted in
two instalments, the first instalment amounting to half the admissible amount being paid after completion of one-third of
the estimated volume of work, and the second instalment after completion of remaining two-third of the estimated
volume of work of the project.
5.
(a)
Applications in prescribed forms for subsidy for improvement and extension of tanks duly supported by detailed scheme
must be made in writing to the Superintendent of Fisheries concerned. The Superintendent of Fisheries will make a
detailed local enquiry in the form prescribed by the Director of Fisheries in this regard himself of through his subordinate
officer not below the rank of Fishery Officer and after scrutiny will forward all applications with his recommendations to
the Director of Fisheries.
(b)
The Director of Fisheries will finalise the list of grantees in consultation with an Advisory Committee constituted by the
Government for this purpose.
The Advisory Committee shall consist of the following members :
1. Director of Fisheries, Assam.
2. Zonal Deputy Registrar of Co-operative Societies, Gauhati.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Assam Fishery Subsidy to Private Fish Farmers and Piscicultural Society Rules, 1971
3. Six non-official members.
6.
The grantees shall have to execute a bond in prescribed form before payment of subsidy in made.
7.
The Director of Fisheries shall issue sanction for the grant of subsidy to each of the grantees.
8.
Subsidy shall be utilised for the purpose for which it is granted and the Director of Fisheries shall ensure that the
utilisation certificate for the amount of subsidy granted to each party is obtained from the Superintendent of Fisheries
who in turn will obtain such certificates from the concerning Fishery Officers. The Fishery Officer shall be responsible for
watching the progress of the work and for the proper implementations of the schemes concerned. The Superintendent of
Fisheries shall verify at least 10 per cent of the certificated work before forwarding the certificates to the Director of
Fisheries, Assam. The utilisation certificates shall contain details of actual works and the expenditure incurred.
9.
It at any time, the Director of Fisheries is satisfied that the subsidy has not been used for the purpose for which it was
granted he shall realise the entire amount of subsidy with five per cent interest thereon as an arrear of land revenue
from the defaulting grantee who shall be debarred from getting any subsidy in future.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3