
----- PAGE 1 -----
Gauhati University Teachers Conduct Rules, 1975
Gauhati University Teachers Conduct Rules, 1975
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/86904732/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Assam - Act
Gauhati University Teachers Conduct Rules, 1975
ASSAM
India
Gauhati University Teachers Conduct Rules, 1975
Rule GAUHATI-UNIVERSITY-TEACHERS-CONDUCT-RULES-1975 of 1975
Published on 1 January 1975
Commenced on 1 January 1975
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 1975.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Gauhati University Teachers Conduct Rules, 1975
Last Updated 11th February, 2020
1.
These rules shall be called The Gauhati University Teachers Conduct Rules, 1975.
2.
These shall come into force immediately.
3.
Definitions.
- In these Rules-
(i)
'University' shall mean the Gauhati University.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Gauhati University Teachers Conduct Rules, 1975
(ii)
'Act' shall mean the Gauhati University Act, 1947 as amended up to date.
(iii)
A 'Teacher' shall mean a Professor, a Reader, a Lecturer or any other person appointed by the University either whole
time of part-time for imparting instruction or guiding research in the University or its constituent college.
(iv)
All other words and expressions used in these Rules shall have the same meaning as in the Act.
4.
A teacher shall at all times-
(i)
maintain absolute integrity,
(ii)
maintain devotion to duty,
(ill)
be present in the University at least for a period of not less than four hours on each working day of which a record shall
be kept by the Head of the Department. This will be applicable to a whole-time teacher only, and
(iv)
do nothing which is unbecoming of a University teacher.
5.
A teacher shall not, in any radio broadcast or in any document publish in his own name or enormously, pseudonymously
or in the name of any other person or in any communication to the press or in any public utterance, make any statement
of fact or opinion which has the effect of any adverse criticism of any policy or action of the University.
6.
A teacher shall not be a member of or be otherwise associated with any political party or any organisation which takes
part in politics, nor shall he take part in, subscribe in aid of or assist in any other manner any political activities for
election to a legislative body or to any local body without previous permission of the appointing authority and except in
accordance with the following rule-
A teacher desiring to seek election to the Parliament or the Legislative Assembly or any local body shall be on
compulsory leave without pay for one year fro the date of his filing nomination and, if elected, till the end of the term of
his office in the legislative or local body concerned.
7.
A teacher of the University shall neither accept any whole time appointment under any institution nor carry no any trade,
business, vocation, profession or calling in his own name or benami during the period he holds a wholetime post in the
University nor shall he hold any part-time employment elsewhere without prior permission of the University authority.
8.
A teacher of the University shall not be a member of any office bearer of any union association or organisation or
persons or employees other than that of teachers of the University except where the Executive Council otherwise directs
:
Provided that the rule shall not apply to a teacher to be a member or to hold office on being elected, nominated or
selected to cultural, academic, literary, scientific or sports association or organisation recognised by the University.
9.
The following lapses shall constitute improper conduct on the part of a teacher :
(i)
Failure to perform his academic duties such as preparation of lectures, demonstrations, assessments, guidance,
invigilation etc.
(ii)
Gross partiality and deliberate over-making or under-marking in the assessment of students.
(iii)
Inciting students against other students, teachers or the administration. (This will not interfere with the right of a teacher
to express his difference on principles in seminars or other acadmeic discussions where students are present).
(iv)
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Gauhati University Teachers Conduct Rules, 1975
Raising questions of caste, creed, religion, race or sex in matters relating to the affairs of the University or any of its
departments or colleges.
(v)
Refusal to carry out the decisions and orders of appropriate administrative/academic bodies and/or functionaries of the
University. This will not inhibit his right to express his differences with their policies or decision.
10.
The violation of any of these Rules shall be dealt with according to the appeal and Discipline Rules of the Government of
Assam until such time when the University makes necessary Rules in this behalf.
11.
In a case where the Executive Council is satisfied that continuance of a teacher in service is jeopardising smooth
functioning of the University drastic measures shall be taken against such teacher.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3