
----- PAGE 1 -----
Gauhati University Employees Conduct Rules, 1975
Gauhati University Employees Conduct Rules, 1975
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/65884592/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Assam - Act
Gauhati University Employees Conduct Rules, 1975
ASSAM
India
Gauhati University Employees Conduct Rules, 1975
Rule GAUHATI-UNIVERSITY-EMPLOYEES-CONDUCT-RULES-1975 of 1975
Published on 22 September 1975
Commenced on 22 September 1975
[This is the version of this document from 22 September 1975.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Gauhati University Employees Conduct Rules, 1975
Passed by the Executive Council vide Resolution No. 310/12/75, dated 22.9.1975
Last Updated 11th February, 2020
1.
These Rules shall be called the Gauhati University Employees Conduct Rules, 1975.
2.
These shall come into force immediately.
3.
Definitions.
- In these Rules-
(i)
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Gauhati University Employees Conduct Rules, 1975
'University' shall mean the Gauhati University ;
(ii)
'Act' shall mean the Gauhati University Act, 1947 as amended up to date ;
(iii)
An employee shall mean an officer or any person appointed by the University other than a teacher for whom a separate
set of rules has been framed.
(iv)
All other words and expressions used in these Rules shall have the same meaning as in the said Act.
4.
An employee shall at all times-
(i)
maintain absolute integrity,
(ii)
maintain devotion to duty,
(iii)
maintain cordial public relation, and
(iv)
do nothing which is unbecoming of a University employees.
5.
An employee shall not, in any radio broadcast or in any document publish in his own name or anonymously,
pseudonymously or in the name of any other person or any communication to the press or in any public utterance, make
any statement of fact or opinion which has the effect of any adverse criticism of any policy or action of the University.
6.
An employee shall not be a member of or be otherwise associated with any political party or any organisation which
takes part in politics, nor shall he take part in, subscribe in aid of, or assist in any other manner any political activities for
election to a legislative body or to any local body without previous permission of the University authority and except in
accordance with the following rule :
An employee desiring to seek election to the Parliament or the Legislative Assembly or any local body shall be on
compulsory leave without pay for one year from the date of his filing nomination and, if elected, till the end of the term of
his office in the legislative or local body concerned.
7.
An employee of the University shall neither accept any whole time appointment under any institution nor carry on any
trade, business, vocation, procession or calling in his own name or benami during the period he holds a whole time post
in the University nor shall be hold any part-time employment elsewhere without prior permission of the University
authority :
Provided that an employee may undertake honorary work of a special or charitable nature or occasional work of literary,
artistic or scientific character, subject to the condition that his official duties do not thereby suffer, but he shall not
undertake or shall discontinue such work if so directed by the University authority.
8.
An employee of the University shall not prosecute any course of study involving attendance at a school or a college for
preparing himself for any examination, without prior permission from the University authority :
Provided that he shall not undertake or shall discontinue his studies if so directed by the University authority :
Provided further that permission granted for the purposes of joining or attending any educational institution shall be
subject to the condition that the employee shall not seek election to or hold any elective office in Students' Union or
other association of students except association formed for purely literary, academic or athletic purposes.
9.
No employee shall, except in accordance with any general or special order of the University authority or in the
performance in good faith of the duties assigned to him, communicate, directly or indirectly any official document or any
part thereof or information to any other employee or any other person to whom he is not authorised to communicate
such document or information.
10.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Gauhati University Employees Conduct Rules, 1975
No employee shall, except with the previous sanction of the University authority own wholly or in part, the conduct or
participate in the editing or management of any newspaper or other periodical publication.
11.
No employee shall, except with the previous sanction of the University authority, give evidence in connection with any
enquiry conducted by any person, committee or authority.
12.
No employee shall be a member, representative or office bearer of any association, union or organisation representing
or purporting to represent University employees or any class of University employees unless such association satisfies
the following conditions :
(a)
membership of the association shall be confined to a distinct class or I classes of University employees and shall be
open to all University employees of that class or classes. Office-bearers including the President shall be selected or
elected from amongst its members :
(b)
the association shall not in any way be connected with or affiliated to any association which does not satisfy condition
(a);
Provided that this rule shall not apply to an employee to be a member or to hold office on being elected, nominated or
selected to a cultural academic, literary, scientific or sports association or organisation recognised by the University.
13.
The following lapses shall constitute improper conduct on the part of an employee :
(i)
Failure to perform his official duties,
(ii)
Deliberate violation of University rules,
(iii)
Habitual unpunctuality in attendance,
(iv)
Raising question of caste, creed, religion, race or sex in matters relating to the affairs of the University,
(v)
Refusal to carry out the decisions and order of appropriate authorities.
14.
The violation of any of these Rules shall be dealt with according to the Appeal and Discipline rules of the Government of
Assam until such time when the University makes necessary rule sin this behalf.
15.
In a case where the Executive Council is satisfied that continuance of an employee in service is jeopardising smooth
functioning of the University, drastic measures shall be taken against such an employee.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3