
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Assam Education Department Selection Rules, 1981
The Assam Education Department Selection Rules, 1981
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/106396319/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Assam - Act
The Assam Education Department Selection Rules, 1981
ASSAM
India
The Assam Education Department Selection Rules, 1981
Rule THE-ASSAM-EDUCATION-DEPARTMENT-SELECTION-RULES-1981 of 1981
Published on 3 June 1981
Commenced on 3 June 1981
[This is the version of this document from 3 June 1981.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Assam Education Department Selection Rules, 1981
Published vide Notification No. E.C.L. 1707/76/63, dated 3rd June, 1981
Last Updated 11th February, 2020
Notification No. E.C.L. 1707/76/63, dated 3rd June, 1981. - Whereas it is expedient to make rules regulating the method
of selection of teachers and principals of Aided Colleges, the Governor of Assam is pleased to make the following Rules,
namely :
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Assam Education Department Selection Rules, 1981.
(2)
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Assam Education Department Selection Rules, 1981
They shall come into force with immediate effect.
2.
Definitions.
- In these rules unless there is something repugnant in the subject or context-
(i)
"Chairman" means the Chairman of the Selection Board appointed under these rules ;
(ii)
"Member" means the member of the Selection Board appointed under these rules;
(iii)
"Board" means the Selection Board constituted under these rules ;
(iv)
"Appointing authority" means the Governing Body in respect of posts of Lecturer and Principals of Aided Colleges :
Provided that if the Governing Body stands dissolved or suspended, the authority shall vest in the Government;
(v)
"Aided College" means a college which is in respect of deficit grants-in-aid from the State Government;
(vi)
"Government" means the Government of Assam.
3.
Constitution of Selection Board.
(1)
There shall be constituted a Selection Board for selection of Lecturers and Principals of Aided Colleges.
(2)
The Selection Board shall consist of five members, both official and non-official to be appointed by the State
Government. One of the official members shall be Member-Secretary of the Board who will not be below the rank of
Deputy Director of Public Instruction under Education Department. The Chairman of the Board may be appointed by the
Government from either official or non-official members of the Board.
(3)
The non-official members shall be entitled to Sitting Fee and Travelling Allowance/Daily Allowances at such rates as
admissible under the Fundamental and Subsidiary Rules.
(4)
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions the State Government shall have the power to assign to the Selection Board
any other matter of selection which does not come within the purview of the Assam Public Service Commission
Regulation or any other Act, for the time being in force.
4.
Tenure of the non-official members.
(1)
The terms of non-official members of the selection board shall be for a period of two years only from the date of issue of
the Notification constituting the Board by the Government:
Provided that the State Government may, by a Notification in the official Gazette extend the terms of a Board for a
period not exceeding one year.
(2)
The vacancies caused by retirement/resignation/removal or death of any non-official member shall be filled up by the
fresh appointment of non-official member for the unexpired period of the term of office of the non-official member in
whose place he is appointed.
(3)
The Government may, if so considers necessary, dissolve or reconstitute the Board at any time, or remove any member
before the expiry of his term.
(4)
The Chairman of the Selection Board who shall be a whole-time officer of the Board shall be deemed to have vacated
the office as soon as he ceases to be a member of the said Board.
(5)
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Assam Education Department Selection Rules, 1981
If an official is appointed as Chairman of the Board his emoluments and terms of appointment will be decided by the
Government.
5.
The Staff of the Board.
- The non-Gazetted staff of the Board shall consist of Grades III and IV staff as may be determined by the Government
from time to time. The Director of Public Instruction Assam shall be the appointing authority of he Grades III and IV staff
and they will be governed by the service rules as applicable in case of Government employee in the said Directorate.
The non-Gazetted staff will draw their pay and allowance etc. from the establishment of the Director of Public Instruction,
Assam.
6.
Notification of vacancies.
- At the commencement of any academic year, the Director of Public Instruction will ascertain the number of existing and
probable vacancies for the posts mentioned in sub-rule (1) of Rule 3 for the current and next year and will notify
vacancies to the Selection Board by not later than September every year. While doing so the Director shall indicate
vacancies required to be filled up from candidates belonging to Scheduled Tribes (Plain), Scheduled Tribes (Hills),
Scheduled Caste in accordance with the provisions of the Assam Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Reservation
of Vacancies in Services and Posts) Act, 1978. Such communication specifying educational qualification, experience,
age nationality and any other particulars are as required.
7.
Publication of the advertisement.
- On receipt of the notification and the draft advertisement as mentioned in Rule 6, the Board shall advertise the posts in
the Official Gazette and at least in three local dailies having circulation throughout Assam. Such advertisement should
be published not later than 15 (Fifteen) days from the date of receipt of the Notification of the draft advertisement by the
Board. The advertisement should invariably be communicated to the Director of Employment and Craftsmen Training,
the Director of Public Instruction, all Universities in the State and the Education Department of the Government of
Assam.
8.
Receipt of applications.
- The Board shall receive the applications within the date fixed in the advertisement and no application received after the
due date should be considered on any ground. A register shall be maintained showing full particulars of each application
received and date of receipt of the same by the Board. The candidates will be furnished with an acknowledgement
receipt of application.
9.
Interview and written tests.
(1)
The Board shall normally hold an interview of the candidates but there will be no bar in holding written tests of
candidates if the Selection Board considers it necessary :
Provided that no interview shall be taken in the absence of the Chairman and three other members of the Board.
(2)
The Board may, as and when necessary associate subject specialists or experts in the interview for selection of
candidates and such specialists or experts, when associated shall be paid such Travelling Allowance/Daily Allowance as
admissible under rules and honorarium as may be determined by the State Government.
10.
Publication of selection list of Lecturers and Principles.
(1)
The Selection Board shall prepare lists of candidates for Lecturers and Principals numbering at least three times of the
existing vacancies, and shall forward the list so prepared to the Government. The Government may approve of the lists
so prepared by the Selection Board after proper verification of the character and antecedents, and publish these lists in
the official Gazette. The lists of Lecturers should be published subject-wise and the Director of Public Instruction, Assam
shall forward the lists of candidates for Principals and Lecturers approved by the Government to the Governing Bodies
of Aided College.
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Assam Education Department Selection Rules, 1981
Note. - Appointment of Principals already in service at the time of bringing the Colleges under deficit system of
grants-in-aid may be regularised provided they can fulfill the conditions as laid down in Rule 5 of the Assam Aided
College Employees Rules, 1960 as amended from time to time and other rules made on this regard.
(2)
Appointment of lecturers already in service will be subject to Regularisation of their services only when they fulfil the
conditions as laid down by the Government from time to time.
(3)
The Board shall maintain a separate list of unselected candidates and a record or reasons for not selecting the
candidater for particular post. The list published under this Rule shall be valid till next list is published.
11.
Appointment.
- On publication of the results the concerning appointing authorities shall make appointment only from among the
candidates included in the lists.
12.
Government power to issue direction to the Board.
- Notwithstanding anything contained in the above Rules, the Government shall have the authority to issue direction to
the Board on any matter as and when necessary may call for any record from the Board and inspect the records of the
Board through an officer duly authorised in this behalf.
13.
Repeal and savings.
- The Assam Education Department Selection Rules, 1977 is hereby repealed.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4