
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Assam Rules and Procedure for Grant of Stipend to Craft Trainees in the Community Cent...
The Assam Rules and Procedure for Grant of Stipend to Craft
Trainees in the Community Centres for Plantations Workers
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/18832961/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Assam - Act
The Assam Rules and Procedure for Grant of Stipend to Craft Trainees in the Community Centres for Plantations
Workers
ASSAM
India
The Assam Rules and Procedure for Grant of Stipend to Craft Trainees in the Community Centres for Plantations
Workers
Rule
THE-ASSAM-RULES-AND-PROCEDURE-FOR-GRANT-OF-STIPEND-TO-CRAFT-TRAINEES-IN-THE-COMMUNITY-C
ENTRES-FOR-PLANTATIONS-WORKERS of 1984
Published on 25 July 1984
Commenced on 25 July 1984
[This is the version of this document from 25 July 1984.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Assam Rules and Procedure for Grant of Stipend to Craft Trainees in the Community Centres for Plantations
Workers
Published vide Notification No. GLR.592/81/46, dated 25.7.1984., Published in the Assam Gazette, Part 2A dated
26.2.1986, page 293
Last Updated 12th February, 2020
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Assam Rules and Procedure for Grant of Stipend to Craft Trainees in the Community Cent...
Notification No.GLR.592/81/46, dated 25.7.1984 - The Governor of Assam is pleased to make the following rules for
grant of stipend to craft trainees in the Community Centres for Plantations Labour run by the Assam Tea Employees
Welfare Board, Gauhati:
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called "The Assam Rules and Procedure for grant of stipened to craft trainees in the Community
Centres for Plantations Workers".
(2)
They shall come into force at once.
2.
Eligibility.
(1)
The sptipend shall be awarded to selected candidates who shall be within the age group of 16 to 40 years;
(2)
The selected candidates shall be from among actual plantation Workers in Assam and shall include their sons or
daughters or dependants; and
(3)
The selected candidates shall be certified to be actual workers or their sons or daughters or dependants by the Tea
Garden Managers concerned.
3.
Submission of application.
- Application for stipend shall be made in the prescribed form obtainable in the Community Centres and through such
Community Centres.
4.
Name of trade for Training.
- Training shall be imparted in the following trades:-
(i)
Carpentry, (ii) Tailoring, and (iii) Such other crafts as may be introduced by the Governor from time to time.
5.
Purpose.
- The purpose for imparting such training is to encourage self-employment among as the Tea Plantation Workers.
6.
Rate and mode of payment of stipend.
(1)
Stipend shall be paid at the rate of Rs. 40 (Rupees forty) only per trainee per month or at any other rate that may be
determined by the Governor from time to time;
(2)
Such stipend shall be paid to a trainee for one trade only.
(3)
Such stipend shall be paid to a trainee monthly or quarterly or half yearly or yearly as may be convenient to the
Governor; and
(4)
Such stipend be non-transferable.
7.
Selection of candidates.
- On receipt of applications in prescribed form the Labour Welfare Organiser shall prepare a statement of eligible
candidates in order of preference and submit the same to the Welfare Commissioner with his recommendations. The
Welfare Commissioner shall in his turn make a final selection of candidates in consultation with the Secretary, Labour
and Employment if necessary.
8.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Assam Rules and Procedure for Grant of Stipend to Craft Trainees in the Community Cent...
Attendance.
- The stipend holders shall attend at least 75 (seventy five) per cent of the Classes held in a year in the craft concerned
and shall maintain good conduct in and outside the classes and shall show satisfactory progress in acquiring the skill.
9.
Examination.
- Quarterly or Half-yearly or Annual Examination as per procedure evolved for this purpose shall be held to determine
the standard of progress of a trainee.
10.
Duration of stipend.
- The tenure of stipend shall be for a maximum period of 2 (two) years subject to termination earlier if stipend holder
discontinues to attend the classes or shows poor progress or his conduct is found to be unsatisfactory.
11.
Appeal.
- Any trainee aggrieved by the decision of the Welfare Commissioner may make an appeal to the Secretary to the
Government of Assam Labour and Employment Department for a review of decision within 30 (thirty) days from the date
of the orders of the Welfare Commissioner.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3