
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Khasi Hills Autonomous District (Appointment and Succession of Chiefs and Headmen) (Si...
The Khasi Hills Autonomous District (Appointment and Succession of
Chiefs and Headmen) (Sixth Amendment) Act, 1991
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/101882346/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Assam - Act
The Khasi Hills Autonomous District (Appointment and Succession of Chiefs and Headmen) (Sixth Amendment) Act,
1991
ASSAM
India
The Khasi Hills Autonomous District (Appointment and Succession of Chiefs and Headmen) (Sixth Amendment) Act,
1991
Rule
THE-KHASI-HILLS-AUTONOMOUS-DISTRICT-APPOINTMENT-AND-SUCCESSION-OF-CHIEFS-AND-HEADMEN-SI
XTH-AMENDMENT-ACT-1991 of 1991
Published on 7 September 1995
Commenced on 7 September 1995
[This is the version of this document from 7 September 1995.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Khasi Hills Autonomous District (Appointment and Succession of Chiefs and Headmen) (Sixth Amendment) Act,
1991
Last Updated 8th February, 2020
Published in M.G. Part IV dated 7.9.1995 pages 57-59.
(Passed by the Khasi Hills Autonomous District Council on the 12th March, 1991)
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Khasi Hills Autonomous District (Appointment and Succession of Chiefs and Headmen) (Si...
(Received the assent of the Governor on 19th August, 1995)
An Act to further amend, the United Khasi Jaintia Hills Autonomous District (Appointment and Succession of Chief and
Headmen) Act 1959 as amended by Act I of 1969, Act II of 1971, Third Amendment Act of 1972, Forty Amendment Act
of 1979 and the Fifth Amendment Act of 1980, hereinafter referred to as the Principal Act.
It is hereby enacted by the Khasi Hills Autonomous District Council in the Forty-second year of the Republic of India as
follows :-
1.
Short Title, Extent and Commencement.
- (i) This Act may be called the Khasi Hills Autonomous District (Appointment and Succession of Chiefs and Headmen)
(Sixth Amendment) Act, 1991.
(ii)
It shall have the like extent as the Principal Act, as amended.
(iii)
It shall come into force at once.
2.
All words and expressions have the same meaning as defined in the Principal Act.
3.
Amendment of Section 2 of the Principal Act.
- In the Principal Act in clause (k) of Section 2 the words "a Sangot" and village elder occurring in between the words
"Pator" and "a Sordar Shnong" shall be deleted.
4.
Amendment of Section 6 of the Principal Act.
- In the Principal Act, in Section 6 :-
(a)
the existing Section 6 shall be renumbered as Section 6(1).
(b)
In Clause (a) of sub-section (1) so renumbered for the word "his occurring therein" the word the shall be substituted.
(c)
After sub-section (1) so renumbered a new sub- section as sub-section (2) shall be inserted, namely :-
(2)
Referendum. - If any dispute arises as to whether the Chief has or has not lost the confidence of the majority of the
electors or the people of the Elaka as provided in Clause (i) of sub-section (1) above, the Executive Committee may, if
deems necessary, hold and conduct a referendum consisting of the electors of the Elaka or of the people of the Elaka as
the case may be and take appropriate action on the basis of a simple majority of the result of such a referendum."
5.
Amendment of Section 7 of the Principal Act.
- In the Principal Act, in Section 7 :-
(a)
For the figure and words "Rs. 10 (Rupees ten)" occurring in sub-section (ii) the figure and words "Rs. 40 (Rupees Forty)"
shall be substituted.
(b)
for the figure and words "Rs. 25 (Rupees twenty five)" occurring in clause (b) of sub-section (ii) the figure and words "Rs.
100 (Rupees one hundred)" shall be substituted.
6.
Amendment of Section 8 of the Principal Act.
- In the Principal Act, in clause (b) of sub-section (2) of Section 8 for the figure and the words Rs. 25 (Rupees twenty
five)" occurring therein the figure and words "Rs. 100/- (Rupees one hundred) shall be substituted.
7.
Amendment of Section 9 of the Principal Act.
- In the Principal Act, in clause (b) of sub-section (2) of Section 9, for the figure and words "Rs. 25 (Rupees twenty five)"
occurring therein, the figure and words Rs. 100 (Rupees One hundred)" shall be substituted.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Khasi Hills Autonomous District (Appointment and Succession of Chiefs and Headmen) (Si...
8.
Amendment of Section 16 of the Principal Act.
- In the Principal Act for the existing Section 16 the following shall be substituted, namely :-
16.
Authorisation. - The Executive Committee may, by order in writing, Authorities two of its member to exercise on its
behalf any power or powers conferred upon it by this Act and anything heard, any act done or order passed as such by
such members of the Executive Committee shall be deemed to have been heard, done or passed by the Executive
Committee."
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3