
----- PAGE 1 -----
Assam Finance Commission (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 1995
Assam Finance Commission (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 1995
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/131165298/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Assam - Act
Assam Finance Commission (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 1995
ASSAM
India
Assam Finance Commission (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 1995
Act 6 of 1995
Published on 18 April 1995
Commenced on 18 April 1995
[This is the version of this document from 18 April 1995.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Assam Finance Commission (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 1995
Assam Act
No. 6 of 1995
Last Updated 12th February, 2020
Published in the Assam Gazette, Extraordinary No. 79, dated 18-4-1995, vide Notification No. LGL 112/94/24, dated
18-4-1995.
[Received the assent of the Governor on 18th April, 2995].
An Act to determine the qualifications requisite for appointment as Members of the Assam Finance Commission and the
manner in which they shall be selected and to prescribe their powers;
Preamble. - It is hereby enacted in the Forty-sixth Year of the Republic of India as follows :
1.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Assam Finance Commission (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 1995
Short title and commencement.
(1)
This Act may be called the Assam Finance Commission (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 1995.
(2)
It shall come into force on such date as the Government may, be notification, appoint.
2.
Definitions.
- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(1)
"Commission" means the Assam Finance Commission constituted by the Governor pursuant to sub-clause (1) of Article
243-I of the Constitution;
(2)
"Government" means the Government of Assam;
(3)
"Governor" means the Governor of Assam;
(4)
"Member" means the Member of the Assam Finance Commission;
(5)
"Chairman" means the Chairman of the Assam Finance Commission;
(6)
"Member Secretary" means a Member of the Assam Finance Commission, specially designated as Member Secretary.
3.
Qualification for appointment and the manner of selection of members of the Commission.
- The Chairman of the Commission shall be selected from among persons, who have wide experience in public affairs,
with special reference to economic and financial matters and four other members including the Member Secretary shall
be selected from among persons who-
(a)
are or have been or are qualified to be appointed as Judges of a High Court; or
(b)
have special knowledge of the finance and accounts of a Government; or
(c)
have had wide experience in financial matters and in administration; or
(d)
have special knowledge of economics; or
(e)
have had long experience as an administrator at senior levels with particular reference to financial and economic
matters.
4.
Personal interest to disqualify members.
- Before appointment of a person as a Chairman or a member of the Commission, the Governor shall satisfy himself that
the person shall have no such financial or other interest as is likely to affect prejudicially his functions as a member of
the Commission, and the Governor shall also satisfy himself from time to time with respect to every member that he has
no such interest and any person who is, or whom the Governor proposes to appoint to be a member shall, whenever
required by the Governor so to do, furnish to him such information as the Governor considers necessary to satisfy
himself in this regard as also for the performance by him of his duties as the Chairman or a Member of the Commission.
5.
Disqualification for being a member of the Commission.
- A person shall be disqualified for being appointed as, or for being a member,-
(a)
if he is of unsound mind;
(b)
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Assam Finance Commission (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 1995
if he is an undischarged insolvent;
(c)
if he has been convicted of an offence involving moral turpitude; and
(d)
if he has such financial or other interest as is likely to affect prejudicially his functions as a member of the Commission.
6.
Terms of office of members and eligibility for re-appointment.
- Every member shall hold office for such period as may be specified in the orders of the Governor appointing him but
shall be eligible for re-appointment:
Provided that he may, by letter addressed to Governor, resign his office.
7.
Conditions of service and other allowances of members.
(1)
The member shall render whole-time or part-time service to the Commission as the Governor may in each case specify.
(2)
Members shall be paid such fees or salaries and such allowances as the Governor may, by order made in this behalf,
determine.
8.
Procedure and powers of the Commission.
(1)
The Commission shall determine their procedure and in the performance of their functions shall have all the powers of a
Civil Court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 while trying a suit in respect of the following matters, namely:
(a)
summoning and enforcing the attendance of the witness;
(b)
requiring the production of any document;
(c)
the requisitioning of any public record from any court or office.
(2)
The Commission shall have the power to require any person to furnish information on such points or matters as in the
opinion of the Commission may be useful for, or relevant to any matter under the consideration of the Commission and
any person so required shall notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (2) of Section 54 of the Indian Income
Tax Act, 1922 now Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961) or in any other law for the time being in force, be deemed to be
legally bound to furnish such information within the meaning of Section 176 of the Indian Penal Code.
(3)
The Commission shall be deemed to be a Civil Court for the purposes of Sections 345 and 346 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973 (Act 2 of 1974).
Explanation. - For the purpose of enforcing attendance of witness, the legal limits of the Commission's jurisdiction shall
be the limits of the territory of India.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3