
----- PAGE 1 -----
Assam Taxation (Settlement of Disputes) Act, 2000
Assam Taxation (Settlement of Disputes) Act, 2000
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/98375545/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Assam - Act
Assam Taxation (Settlement of Disputes) Act, 2000
ASSAM
India
Assam Taxation (Settlement of Disputes) Act, 2000
Act 7 of 2000
Published on 17 May 2000
Commenced on 17 May 2000
[This is the version of this document from 17 May 2000.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Assam Taxation (Settlement of Disputes) Act, 2000
(Assam Act No. 7 of 2000)
Last Updated 12th June, 2020
[Dated 17.5.2000.]
An Act to provide for expeditious settlement of disputes in respect or arrear tax, penalty or interest and expeditious
payment thereof under the relevant Acts relating to sales tax, entertainment tax, tax on luxury, tax on specified land and
agricultural income by way or settlement of such disputes on a one time basis and the matters connected therewith or
incidental thereto.
Whereas it is expedient to provide for settlement of disputes and enforcement of payment of arrear tax, penalty or
interest, as the case may be under the Assam General of 1993, the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956, the Assam
Amusement and Betting Tax Act, 1939. The Assam Tax on Luxuries (Hotels and Lodging Houses) Act, 1989, the Assam
Page 1/6
----- PAGE 2 -----
Assam Taxation (Settlement of Disputes) Act, 2000
Taxation (on Luxuries) Act, 1997, the Assam Taxation (on Specified Lands) Act, 1997, the Assam Taxation (on
Specified Lands) Act, 1990, the Assam Agricultural Income Tax Act, 1939 and other repealed Acts referred to in
sub-section (1) of Section 74 of the Assam General Sales Tax Act, 1993
Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Assam in the Fifty first Year of the Republic of India as follows
:-
1.
Short title, extent and commencement.
(1)
This Act may be called the Assam Taxation (Settlement of Disputes) Act, 2000.
(2)
It extends to the whole of the State of Assam.
(3)
It shall come into force from the date of its publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
(1)
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, -
(a)
"applicant" means a dealer, a proprietor a hotelier, an owner, a stockist or an assessee as defined in the relevant Act
and includes legal heirs, successors, assignees or nominees of such dealer proprietor hotelier, owner, stockist or an
assessee ;
(b)
"arrear tax, penalty or interest in dispute" means, -
(i)
tax, by whatever name called, including additional tax, if any payable by an applicant upon assessment under the
relevant act, or
(ii)
penalty payable by an applicant under the relevant Act, or
(iii)
interest payable by an applicant under the relevant Act,
which, as the case may be, is in dispute in any appeal or revision pending before the appellate authority or revisional
authority including the Assam Board of Revenue, the Gauhati High Court and the Supreme Court of India on the 31st
day of March, 2000 under the relevant Act;
Explanation. - The amount of arrear tax, penalty or interest which, though included in the appeal petition or the revision
petition, is not actually in disputes shall be excluded for the purpose of calculating the arrear tax, penalty or interest in
dispute.
(c)
"designated authority" means the authority appointed under section 3 to receive the application for settlement of dispute
and to dispose of the same ;
(d)
"notified authority" means the authority appointed under section 3 to perform the functions under sub-section (3) and
sub-section (4) of section 8 ;
(e)
"prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this Act ;
(f)
"relevant Act" means any one or more of the following Acts :-
(i)
the Assam General Sales Tax Act, 1993 (Assam Act No. XII of 1993).
(ii)
the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 (Central Act 74 of 1956).
(iii)
Page 2/6
----- PAGE 3 -----
Assam Taxation (Settlement of Disputes) Act, 2000
the Assam Amusements and Betting Tax Act, 1939 (Assam Act No. VI of 1939),
(iv)
the Assam Tax on Luxuries (Hotels a1i6 Lodging Houses) Act, 1989 (Assam Act No. V of 1989),
(v)
the Assam Taxation (on Luxuries) Act, 1997 (Assam Act No. VIIT of 1997),
(vi)
the Assam Taxation (on Specified Lands) Act, 1990 (Assam Act No. XII of 1990),
(vii)
the Assam Agricultural Income Tax Act, 1939 (Assam Act No. IX of 1939),
(viii)
the repealed Acts as mentioned in sub-section (1) of section 74 of the Assam General Sales Tax Act, 1993 (Assam Act
No. XII of 1993) and
includes the rules made, or notifications issued under the Acts referred to in sub-clauses (i), (ii) , (iii), (iv), (v), (vi), (vii)
and (viii) above.
(2)
Unless there is anything repungnant in the subject or contexts, all expressions used in this Act, which are not defined in
this Act but defined in the relevant Act, or used in the relevant Act. shall have the same meaning as in the relevant Act.
3.
Designated authority and notified authority.
- For carrying out the purposes of this Act, the State Government may , by notification published in the Official Gazette
appoint one or more authorities, referred to section 3 of the Assam General Sales Tax Act, 1993 to be the designated
authority and the notified Assam Art authority and such authorities shall exercise jurisdiction over such area or areas as
the State Government may specify in the notification.
4.
Eligibility for settlement.
(1)
Subject to the other provisions of this Act, an applicant shall be eligible to make an application for settlement or arrear
tax, penalty or interest in dispute in respect of any period for which an assessment has been made under the relevant
Act and an appeal or revision relating thereto is pending on the 31st March, 2000, before any appellate authority or
revisional authority or any other authority as the case may be :
Provided that where an applicant has filed a writ petition or appeal or reference or revision before the Assam Board of
Revenue, the Gauhati High Court or the Supreme Court against any order in respect of the arrear tax, penalty or interest
in dispute, the applicant shall file an application before such Board, High Court or Supreme Court, as the case may be
for withdrawing such writ petition appeal, reference or revision and after withdrawal of such writ petition, appeal,
reference or revision, as the case may be. with the leave of the Court, the applicant shall be eligible to make an
application for settlement under this Act by furnishing proof of such withdrawal.
(2)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), an applicant shall not be eligible to make an application for
settlement of arrear tax, penalty or interest in dispute in respect of any period under the relevant Act for which the
appeal or revision has been finally heard by the appellate authority or the revisional authority, as the case may be.
Explanation. - For the purpose of this sub-section, no appeal or revision shall be deemed to have been heard only by
reason of any stay order having been passed by any appellate authority or revisional authority in connection with such
appeal or revision.
(3)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), an applicant shall not be eligible to make an application for
settlement where prosecution for any offence punishable under any provision of the relevant Act has been instituted in
respect of any arrear tax, penalty or interest in dispute.
Explanation. - The prosecution has been instituted implies that the prosecution is pending before the Court. A mere
show-cause notice shall not debar an applicant from making an application for settlement under this Act.
5.
Application for settlement.
Page 3/6
----- PAGE 4 -----
Assam Taxation (Settlement of Disputes) Act, 2000
(1)
An application for the purpose of Section 4 shall be made to the designated authority by an applicant in such form, and
in such manner, as may be prescribed on or before the 31st day of July, 2000 or by such later date as the State
Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette; specify from time to time:
(2)
Separate applications shall he made by an applicant for different periods under each of the relevant Acts.
(3)
The applicant shall send a copy of the application made under sub-section (1) to the appellate authority or the revisional
authority before whom the appeal or revision, as the case may he, is pending, within seven days from the date of
making such application before the designated authority.
6.
Determination of amount payable by the applicant.
(1)
The designated authority shall, ordinarily within sixty clays from the date or receipt or an application referred to in
Section 5, verify the correctness or the particulars furnished in such an application with reference to the connected
records available with the assessing authority, appellate authority or any other authority, as the case may be.
(2)
Where the designated authority is satisfied about the correctness of the particulars set forth in the application made by
an applicant, he shall determine, by an order in writing, the amount payable by the applicant for the purpose of
settlement of arrear tax, penalty or interest in dispute at the rate specified in section 7 :
Provided that while determining the amount payable by the applicant for the purpose of settlement of arrear tax, penalty
or interest in dispute, the designated authority shall take into account any amount of arrear tax, penalty or interest in
dispute paid by the applicant before making an application under Section 5 and deduct the amount so paid by him from
the amount determined as payable by the applicant under this sub-section :
Provided further that the amount payable by an applicant as determined under this sub-section shall be rounded off to
the nearest rupee and, for this purpose, where such amount contains a part of a rupee, then, if such part is fifty paise or
more, it shall be rounded off to a rupee, and if such part is less than fifty paise, it shall be ignored.
(3)
After the amount payable by an applicant is determined under sub-section (2), the designated authority shall, subject to
such conditions and restrictions as may be prescribed, require the applicant, by a notice in such form as may be
prescribed, to pay the amount so determined under sub-section (2) within thirty days from the date of receipt of such
notice by the applicant or within such further time as may be prescribed.
(4)
The applicant shall pay in one instalment, the sum determined by the designated authority as per the terms of the notice
and intimate the fact of such payment to the designated authority within fifteen days of making such payment together
with a copy or duly receipted challan showing payment of the amount specified in the not ice issued under sub-section
(3).
(5)
The amount required to be paid in terms or the notice issued under sub-section (3) shall be paid in such manner as is
specified in the relevant Act or the rules framed thereunder.
7.
Rate applicable in determining the amount payable.
(1)
The amount payable by an applicant for settlement of dispute under this Act shall be,
(a)
where the dispute relates to any arrear tax at the rate of fifty percentum of the arrear tax in dispute or
(b)
where the dispute relates to any arrear interest at the rate of twenty five percentum of the arrear interest in dispute.
(2)
The arrear penalty in dispute if any, shall he waived.
8.
Page 4/6
----- PAGE 5 -----
Assam Taxation (Settlement of Disputes) Act, 2000
Settlement of dispute and issue of certificate of settlement.
(1)
The designated authority on being satisfied about the payment of the amount which the applicant is required to pay by
virtue or the notice under sub-section (3) or section 6, shall settle the dispute in respect of which an application has been
made under sub-section (1) of section 5 and issue a certificate of settlement for such dispute in such form as may be
prescribed, to the applicant, ordinarily within thirty days or receipt or the copy or duly receipted challan in support of
payment made by the applicant and thereupon, such applicant shall be discharged from his liability to make payment of
the balance amount of such arrear tax, penalty or interest in dispute :
Provided that where no payment is required to he made by an applicant by reason of an adjustment as referred to in the
first proviso to sub-section (2) or section 6 and no notice is issued to him under sub-section 3, or section 6 the
designated authority shall settle the dispute and issue a certificate for such dispute to such applicant :
Provided further that a certificate or settlement shall be issued by the designated authority separately in respect of every
application made under section 5.
(2)
The designated authority for reasons to be recorded in writing may refuse to settle a dispute :
Provided that no order refusing to settle a dispute shall be passed without allowing the applicant a reasonable
opportunity or being heard.
(3)
The designated authority may at any time within ninety days from the date or issue of the certificate under sub-section
(1), rectify any error apparent on the race or the record:
Provided that no such rectification adversely affecting the applicant shall be passed without allowing the applicant a
reasonable opportunity of being heard.
(4)
(a)
the notified authority within ninety days or the order passed by the designated authority may, either or his own motion or
on an application by the applicant, call for and examine the records or any proceeding under this Act and may pass such
order thereon as it deems fit :
Provided that no such order shall be passed without allowing a reasonable opportunity or being heard to the applicant as
well as to the designated authority.
(b)
The order passed by the notified authority under this sub-section shall be final and binding on the designated authority
as well as on the applicant.
9.
Bar on re-opening of settled cases.
- Subject to the provisions of sub-section (3) and sub-section (4) of section 8, a certificate or settlement issued under
sub-section (1) of section 8 shall he conclusive as to the dispute to which it relates and no matter covered by such
certificate or settlement shall he re-opended in any proceeding or appeal or revision, or any other proceeding under the
relevant Act.
10.
Withdrawal of appeal and revision.
- Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any provision in the relevant Act, the appeal or revision for any
period pending before tl1e appellate authority or the revisional authority, as the case may be other than the Assam
Board or Revenue the Gauhati High Court and the Supreme Court, in respect of which a ccrtific1tc or settlement is
issued under sub-section (1) or section 8, shall be deemed to have been withdrawn by the applicant from the date or
making or the application by the applicant under sub-section (1) or section 5.
11.
Appellate authority and revisional authority not to proceed in certain cases.
- No appellate authority or rcvisional authority other than the Assam Board or Revenue, the Gauhati High Court and the
Supreme Court shall proceed to decide any appeal or revision under the relevant Act relating to any period in respect or
which an application has been made by an applicant under section 5 :
Provided that such authority shall proceed to decide such appeal or revision for such period in accordance with the
Page 5/6
----- PAGE 6 -----
Assam Taxation (Settlement of Disputes) Act, 2000
provisions of the relevant Act, if a certificate of settlement referred to in sub-section (1) of section 8 is refused to the
applicant by an order passed by the designated authority in writing under sub-section (2) of section 8 or by the notified
authority under sub-section (4) of section 8.
12.
Revocation of certificate of settlement.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in Section 9 or section 10, where it appears to the designated authority that an
applicant has obtained the benefit of settlement under this Act by suppressing any material information or particulars or
by furnishing any incorrect or false information or particulars, such designated authority may, for reasons to be recorded
in writing and after giving the applicant a reasonable opportunity or being heard, revoke the certificate of settlement
issued under sub-section (1) of section 8.
(2)
If a certificate of settlement is revoked under sub-section (1), the appeal or revision, as the case may be, under the
relevant Act, covered by such certificate or settlement, shall, notwithstanding the provisions of section 9 or section 10
stand revived or reinstated immediately upon such revocation, and such appeal or revision shall be decided in
accordance with the provisions of the relevant Act, as if no settlement of the arrear tax penalty or interest in dispute in
such appeal or revision has ever been made under this Act :
Provided that this sub-section shall not apply in respect of any case already withdrawn under the proviso to sub-section
(I) of section 4 with the leave of the Assam Board of Revenue or the Gauhati High Court or the Supreme Court, as the
case may be.
13.
Information to be sent to the authorities under the relevant.
- The designated authority shall keep the assessing authority, the appellate authority or the revisional authority. who, for
the time being has jurisdiction over the applicant under the relevant Act, informed, inter alia of the fact of -
(a)
making of an application by an applicant under section 5.
(b)
passing of any order by the designated authority under section 8 and
(c)
revocation of any certificate of settlement under section 12,
in such form and manner, and within such time, as may be prescribed.
14.
No refund of amount paid under the Act.
- Any amount paid by an applicant under section 6 shall not he refundable under any circumstances :
Provided that in the case of revocation of a settlement in accordance with section 12, the amount paid by the applicant'
under section 6 shall be treated to have been paid under the relevant Act for the period for which the certificate of
settlement has been revoked.
15.
Power of the State Government to make rules.
- The State Government may, by notification published in the Official Gazette, make rules with prospective or
retrospective effect, for carrying out the purposes of this Act, and such rules may provide for all or any of the matters
which, under any provision of this Act, is required to be prescribed or to be provided for by rules.
16.
Power to remove difficulties.
- If any difficulty arises in giving effect to any of the provisions of this Act, the State Government may, by order, not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, remove the difficulty.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 6/6