
----- PAGE 1 -----
Assam Authoritative Texts (State Laws) Act, 2018
Assam Authoritative Texts (State Laws) Act, 2018
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/75090579/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Assam - Act
Assam Authoritative Texts (State Laws) Act, 2018
ASSAM
India
Assam Authoritative Texts (State Laws) Act, 2018
Act 11 of 2018
Published on 18 April 2018
Commenced on 18 April 2018
[This is the version of this document from 18 April 2018.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Assam Authoritative Texts (State Laws) Act, 2018
(Assam Act
No. 11 of 2018
)
Last Updated 12th February, 2020
(Received the assent of the Governor on 18th April, 2018)
(Published in the Assam Gazette, Extraordinary dated 7.5.2018, pp 1087-89)
An Act to provide for authoritative texts of State Laws in Assamese Language in the State of Assam.
Preamble
Whereas it is extremely useful to the general public of Assam and also for official purposes of the State to translate into,
authenticate and publish the State Laws of Assam in Assamese Language under the authority of the Governor and it is
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
Assam Authoritative Texts (State Laws) Act, 2018
expedient to provide for authoritative texts of State Laws in Assamese Language in the State of Assam;
It is hereby enacted in the Sixty-ninth Year of the Republic of India as follows:
1.
Short title, extent and commencement.
(1)
This Act may be called the Assam Authoritative Texts (State Laws) Act, 2018.
(2)
It extends to the whole of Assam.
(3)
It shall come into force at once.
2.
Definitions.
- In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context, -
(a)
"State Laws" means and includes any State Act, any Ordinance promulgated by the Governor, any order, rule,
regulation or bye-law issued under the Constitution or under any State Act;
(b)
"Governor" means the Governor of Assam;
(c)
"State Government" means the State Government of Assam ;
(d)
"prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this Act.
3.
Authoritative Texts of State Laws in Assamese Language.
- Translation in Assamese Language of any State Law(s) published under the authority of the Governor in the Official
Gazette, shall be deemed to be the authoritative texts thereof in Assamese Language.
4.
Power to make rules.
(1)
The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act.
(2)
Every rule made by the State Government under this Act shall, as soon as may be after they are made, be laid before
the Assam Legislative Assembly while it is in session, for a total period of not less than fourteen days which may be
comprised in one session or two or more successive sessions and shall, unless some later date is appointed, take effect
from the date of their publication in the Official Gazette subject to such modifications or annulments as the Legislative
Assembly may, during the said period agree to make, so however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done thereunder.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2