
----- PAGE 1 -----
The GUWAHATI MUNICIPAL CORPORATION (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2019
The GUWAHATI MUNICIPAL CORPORATION (AMENDMENT) ACT,
2019
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/157403800/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
3
]
State of Assam - Act
The GUWAHATI MUNICIPAL CORPORATION (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2019
ASSAM
India
The GUWAHATI MUNICIPAL CORPORATION (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2019
Act 14 of 2019
Published in Assam Gazette on 4 September 2019
Commenced on 4 September 2019
[This is the version of this document from 4 September 2019.]
AN
ACT
further to amend the Guwahati Municipal Corporation Act, 1969.
Whereas it is expedient further to amend the Guwahati Municipal Corporation Act, 1969, hereinafter referred to as the
principal Act, for laying down certain provisions for disqualifications for councilorship of the Corporation and providing for
provisions for non-application of the provisions of the Assam Nagara Raj Act, 2007, in respect of the areas covered
under Guwahati Municipal Corporation Act, 1969, in the manner hereinafter appearing, It is hereby enacted in the
Seventieth Year of the Republic oflndia, as follows :-
1.
Short title, extent and commencement:
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The GUWAHATI MUNICIPAL CORPORATION (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2019
(1)
This Act may be called the Guwahati Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2019.
(2)
It shall have the like extent as the principal Act.
(3)
It shall come into force at once.
2.
In the principal Act, section 20A shall be deleted.
3.
Amendment of section 47:
In the principal Act, in section 47, in sub-section (1), after clause (k), for the punctuation mark ":" appearing at the end,
the punctuation mark";" shall be substituted and thereafter the following new clauses (L), (m), (n) and (o) shall be
inserted, namely:-
"(I) if he/she has more than two living children from a single or multiple partners:
Provided that this provision shall not be applicable in respect of those persons, who have more than two children prior to
the date of commencement of this Act;
(m)
if he/she has not passed Bachelor's degree or equivalent examination from any University recognized by the State or the
Central Government, as the case may be:
Provided that in case of candidates belonging to Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, Other Backward Classes (OBC)
and More Other Backward Classes (MOBC), the minimum educational qualification shall be H.S.S.L.C or passed
equivalent examination under any Board or Council recognized by the State or the Central Government, as the case
may be;
(n)
if he/she does not have a functional sanitary toilet in his/her residence premises for the use of the family members;( o) if
he/she had been disqualified previously for corruption or if he/she had been convicted for any act under any provision of
Law.'' ?
4.
In the principal Act, after section 444, the following new section 445 shall be inserted, namely :-
"445. Notwithstanding anything contained in the Assam Nagara Raj Act, 2007, the provisions of the said Act shall not
apply in respect of the areas covered under the Guwahati Municipal Corporation Act, 1969, and the relevant provisions
of the Assam Nagara Raj Act, 2007, shall be deemed to have been amended accordingly."
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2