
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Bengal Inheritance Regulation, 1793
The Bengal Inheritance Regulation, 1793
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/37680650/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Bihar - Act
The Bengal Inheritance Regulation, 1793
BIHAR
India
The Bengal Inheritance Regulation, 1793
Act 11 of 1793
Published on 1 May 1793
Commenced on 1 May 1793
[This is the version of this document from 1 May 1793.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Bengal Inheritance Regulation, 1793
(Bengal Regulation 11 of 1793)
[Dated 1st May, 1793]
A Regulation for removing certain restrictions to the operation of the Hindu and Muhammadan laws with regard to the
inheritance of landed property subject to the payment of Revenue to Government.
1.
Preamble.
- A custom, originating in considerations of financial convenience, was established in these Provinces under the Native
Administrations, according to which some of the most extensive zamindaris are not liable to division.
Upon the death of the proprietor of one of these estates it devolves entirely to the eldest son, or next heir of the
deceased, to exclusion of all other sons or relations.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Bengal Inheritance Regulation, 1793
This custom is repugnant both to the Hindu and Muhammadan laws, which annexed to primogeniture no exclusive right
of succession to landed property, and consequently subversive of the rights of those individuals who would be entitled to
a share of the estates in question were the established laws of inheritance allowed to operate with regard to them as
well as all other estates.
It likewise tends to prevent the general improvement of the country, from the proprietors of these large estates not
having the means, or being unable to bestow the attention, requisite for bringing into cultivation the extensive tracts of
waste land comprised in them.
For the above reasons, and as the limitation of the public demand upon the estates of individuals as they now exist, and
the Rules prescribed for apportioning the amount of it on the several shares of any estates which may be divided,
obviate the objections and inconveniences that might have arisen from such divisions when the public demand was
liable to annual or frequent variation, the Governor-General in Council has enacted the following Rules:
2.
Descent of landed property after 1st 4uly, 1794.
- [* * *]
[Words and figures as to dates repealed by Act 16 of 1874.]
If any zamindar, independent talukdar or other actual proprietor of land, shall die without a will, or without having
declared by a writing, or verbally, to whom and in what manner his or her landed property is to devolve after his or her
demise, and shall leave two or more heirs, who by the Muhammadan or Hindu law, (according as the parties may be of
the former or latter persuasion) may be respectively entitled to succeed to a portion of the landed property of the
deceased, such persons shall succeed to the shares to which they may be entitled.
3.
Estate how held on death of actual proprietor.
- If any zamindar, independent talukdar or other actual proprietor of land, shall die [* * *]
['Subsequent to the period specified in Section 2,' repealed by Act 16 of 1874.]
without a will, or without having declared by a writing, or verbally, to whom and in what manner his or her landed
property is to devolve after his or her demise, and shall leave two or more heirs, who by the Muhammadan or Hindu law
(according as the parties may be of the former or latter persuasion) shall be respectively entitled to succeed to a portion
of the landed property of the deceased, under the Rule contained in [Section 2]
[Substituted by Act 12 of 1891, Schedule II for 'that section'.]
such persons shall be at liberty, if they shall prefer so doing, to hold the property as a joint undivided estate.
If one or more, or all of the sharers shall be desirous of having separate possession of their respective shares, a division
of the estate shall be made in the manner directed in [the Estates Partition Act, 1876]
[Substituted by 'Regulation 25, 1793,' by Act 12 of 1891, Schedule II. Bengal Act 8 of 1876 has been repealed and
re-enacted by the Estates Partition Act, 1897 (Bengal Act
5 of 1897
), and this reference should now be construed as a reference to the latter Act-see Section 2(2) thereof.]
, and such sharer or sharers shall have the separate possession of such share or shares accordingly.
If there shall be three or more sharers, and any two or more of them shall be desirous of holding their shares as a joint
undivided estate, they shall be permitted to keep their shares united accordingly.
4.
Shares held separate how assessed.
- [* * *]
[The reference to Regulation 8 of 1793, in Section 4, repealed by Act 16 of 1874.]
If any one or more of such sharers shall apply to have the separate possession of his or their share or shares, the
proportion of the public jama charged upon the whole estate which is to be assessed upon such share or shares is to be
adjusted according to the Rules prescribed in Section 10, Regulation 1, 1793.
If the estate is held khas or let in farm, the provisions contained in Section 11, Regulation 1, 1793, regarding estates so
circumstanced which may be divided, will be applicable to it.
5.
Saving of bequests and transfers.
- Nothing contained in this Regulation is to be construed to [* * *]
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Bengal Inheritance Regulation, 1793
[Portions of Sections 5 and 6 which were repealed by Act 16 of 1874, with the effect of running the two Sections into
one, have been omitted.]
prohibit any actual proprietor of land bequeathing or transferring by will, or by a declaration in writing, or verbally, either
prior or subsequent to the 1st July, 1794, his or her landed estate entire to his or her eldest son or next heir, or other son
or heir, in exclusion of all other sons or heirs, or to any person or persons, or to two or more of his or her heirs in
exclusion of all other persons or heirs, in the proportions, and to be held in the manner, which such proprietor may think
proper:
Provided that the bequest or transfer be not repugnant to any [laws for the time being in force]
[Substituted by A.O. for 'Regulations that have been or may be passed by the Governor-General in Council'.]
, nor contrary to the Hindu or Muhammadan law; and that the bequest or transfer, whether made by a will or other
writing, or verbally, be authenticated by, or made before, such witnesses, and in such manner, as those Laws [* * *]
['and Regulations' repealed by by A.O.]
respectively do or may require.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3