
----- PAGE 1 -----
Rules for the use of Motor Vehicles of the Health Department
Rules for the use of Motor Vehicles of the Health Department
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/60136903/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Bihar - Act
Rules for the use of Motor Vehicles of the Health Department
BIHAR
India
Rules for the use of Motor Vehicles of the Health Department
Rule RULES-FOR-THE-USE-OF-MOTOR-VEHICLES-OF-THE-HEALTH-DEPARTMENT of 1800
Published on 1 January 1800
Commenced on 1 January 1800
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 1800.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Rules for the use of Motor Vehicles of the Health Department
1.
The motor vehicles of the Health Department, either provided under different health schemes or allotted to medical
institutions, should not, except as provided hereunder, be used for purposes other than those for which they are meant.
2.
On rare occasions, in the event of a temporary break-down of their own conveyance, the Gazetted Officers of the Health
Department may, with the previous permission of the Controlling Officer of the motor vehicle, use a motor vehicle of the
Health Department for journeys on duty outside their own headquarters stations on payment of the charges prescribed
in clause (a) of Rule 5; provided the vehicle is free and will not be required for Government work during the period the
journeys would last.
3.
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
Rules for the use of Motor Vehicles of the Health Department
In very exceptional and urgent cases the motor vehicles when not required for Government work, may at the discretion
of the Controlling Officer, be used beyond legitimate Government work by the officers of the Health Department on
payment of the charges prescribed in clause (b) of Rule 5.
4.
Visiting officials of the 1st grade or of equivalent status and distinguished non-official visitors (guests from outside) may
also use the motor vehicles on the conditions set forth in Rules 2 and 3 above.
5.
Charges for the motor vehicles-
(a)
Official Journeys.-(i) At the rate of annas 6 per mile for light vehicles (jeeps, station wagons and austin cars, etc).
(ii)
At the rate of annas 8 per mile for heavy vehicles (e.g. pick-up vans, weapon carriers, trucks and power wagons).
(b)
Private journeys.-
By light vehicles.-
(i)
6 A.M. to 10 P.M. at the rate of annas 6 per mile.
(ii)
10 P.M. to 12 P.M. at the rate of Re. 1 per mile.
(iii)
12 P.M. to 6 A.M. at the rate of Rs. 2 per mile.
By heavy vehicles.-
(iv)
6 A.M. to 10 P.M. at the rate of annas 8 per mile.
(v)
10 P.M. to 12 P.M. at the rate of Rs. 1-4-0 per mile.
(vi)
12 P.M. to 6 A.M. at the rate of Rs. 2-8-0 per mile.
(c)
Detention charges-No detention charge will be made when the vehicle is used on official duty but when in private use
the following charges will be levied :-
Annas 8 per hour or part of an hour except for the first two hours of detention. Detention will be reckoned from the time a
motor vehicle is required or from the time a motor vehicle arrives at the place where it is required and detention will
cease when the car is released for return to garage.
6.
Calculation of mileage.
- Mileage will be calculated on the distance from the garage to the point where the motor vehicle is released. Where the
point of release is outside a radius of 5 miles from the garage of the vehicle concerned, the journey back to the garage
will also be charged for.
7.
Check of mileage.
- A diary will be maintained by the driver of each motor vehicle in the form attached and officers and persons using the
vehicle will be required to fill in columns 4, 6, 8 and 9 sign in column 16. Before signing the diary, particular attention
should be paid to see that the entries regarding period of detention and distance travelled have been correctly recorded.
8.
Method of payment.
- Payment for the use of the motor vehicles should usually be made in cash to the driver who will grant a printed receipt.
No payment shall be made for the motor vehicles out of contingent grants of the department or office for any journey
performed in the motor vehicle of the Department. In exceptional cases, payment may also be made, within one month
of the use of the vehicle, in the office of the Controlling Officer of that vehicle, for which a printed receipt shall be
granted.
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
Rules for the use of Motor Vehicles of the Health Department
9.
Credit of receipts.
- Mileage and detention charges when recovered by the driver will after the vehicle returns to the garage be deposited
with the Accountant, or the Cashier or the Head Clerk, as the case may be, of the office of the Controlling Officer, who
will credit the receipt along with any such receipt received direct in office under the head "XXVII-Medical-Miscellaneous
receipts/XXVIII-Public Health-Miscellaneous receipts" as the case may be.
10.
Checking of mileage diary, etc.
- The Controlling Officer of the vehicle or an officer authorised by him, in writing, shall make verification with reference to
mileage diaries and cash-books, etc., at the end of each quarter, to ensure that the charges have been correctly
recorded, that the accounts have been properly maintained and that the receipts have been regularly deposited in the
treasury. He will make suitable endorsement in the cash-book about the result of each verification.
11.
Nothing in these Rules shall authorise the use of ambulance cars, X-Ray vans, and motor vehicles of mobile
dispensaries in the manner prescribed in rules 2 to 4 either for official or private journeys.
12.
These Rules will come into force immediately.
Driver's Diary Book
Date.
Mileometer reading on leaving.
Time of reporting to the officer at whose
disposal motor vehicle is placed.
Mileometer reading on reporting to officer.
Date and time when vehicle is released.
Mileometer reading when motor vehicle is
released.
Mileometer reading on return to garage.
Whether the vehicle used for official duty or
private work
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Whether light or heavy vehicle used.
Charge paid for journey performed on official
duty.
Charge paid for private journey between 6 A.M.
and 10 P.M.
Charge paid for private journey between 12 P.M.
and 6 A.M.
Detention charge paid at annas 8 per hours.
Signature of the officer using the vehicle
Receipts of petrol, oil etc.
Signature of the driver
9
10
11
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
Rules for the use of Motor Vehicles of the Health Department
12
13
14
15
16
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4