
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Bengal Land-Revenue Settlement Regulation, 1822
The Bengal Land-Revenue Settlement Regulation, 1822
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/71328824/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Bihar - Act
The Bengal Land-Revenue Settlement Regulation, 1822
BIHAR
India
The Bengal Land-Revenue Settlement Regulation, 1822
Act 7 of 1822
Published on 8 August 1822
Commenced on 8 August 1822
[This is the version of this document from 8 August 1822.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Bengal Land-Revenue Settlement Regulation, 1822
(Bengal Regulation 7 of 1822)
[Dated 8th August, 1822]
A Regulation for declaring the principle according to which the settlement of the land-revenue in Cuttack, Pataspur and
its dependencies is to be hereafter made and the powers and duties belonging to Collectors or other officers employed
in making, revising or superintending settlements; for defining, settling and recording the rights and obligations of
various classes and persons possessing an interest in the land, or in the rest or produce thereof; and for vesting the
Revenue-authority with judicial cognizances in certain cases of suits and claims relating to land, the rent and produce of
land.
1.
Preamble.
Page 1/22
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Bengal Land-Revenue Settlement Regulation, 1822
- Whereas the existing settlement of the revenue in the [ceded]
[The words 'Provinces' shall stand undefined, see para 3 and Schedule VI of the ALO.]
Provinces will expire with the present Fasli [year]
[i.e., the 1st September, 1822.]
and it has therefore become necessary to declare and enact the principles and rules according to which the demand of
the State is thereafter to be regulated, and the manner in which future settlements and revisions of settlements are to be
conducted;
And whereas a moderate assessment being equally conducive to the true interests of Government and to the well-being
of its subjects, it is the wish and intention of Government that in revising the existing settlement of efforts of the
Revenue-officers should be chiefly directed not to any general and extensive enhancement of the jama but to the
objects of equalizing the public [burthens,]
[Burthen : Archac from of Burden.]
and of ascertaining, settling and recording the rights, interests, privileges and properties of all persons and classes
owning, occupying, managing or cultivating the land, or gathering or disposing of its produce, or collecting or
appropriating the rent of revenue payable on account of land, or the produce of land, or paying or receiving any cesses,
contributions or perquisites to or from any persons resident in, or owning, occupying or holding parcel of, any village or
mahal;
And whereas, with these views and intention, the Governor-General in-Council has considered it to be expedient and
proper, with the exception hereinafter specified, to continue the existing assessment in all cases in which the settlement
has been formed with zamindar or other persons acknowledged as proprietors or possessors of a permanent interest in
the mahals for which they may have engaged, until a new settlement can be made, combining, with the revision of the
Government jama and the deliberate investigation of the facts by the determination of which its amount must be
regulated, a full inquiry into, and a careful settlement of, the rights and interests of all classes connected with the land;
And whereas the same principles are applicable to the district of Cuttack the pargana Pataspur and it dependencies of
which the settlement will expire with the present "Amli" [year]
[i. e., the 2nd September, 1822.]
;
And whereas it has appeared expedient to make special provision for the early settlement of [* * *]
[The Words 'the district of Gorakhpur, the chakla of Azamgarh, Repealed by Act 1 of 1903.]
the pargana of Pataspur and its dependencies:
[* * * * *]
[Portion relating to 'the Conquered Provinces' and the Provice of Bundelkhand Repealed by Act 1 of 1903.]
And whereas it is the desire of Government that the proceeding held, and the records, by the Collectors when making
settlements or otherwise specially employed in conducting inquires of the above nature should be such as that all
demands, claims and suits may be adjudged and determined according to the facts therein stated until the same shall
have been formally altered, or it shall be shown, by the result of a full investigation in a regular suit, that the proceeding
or record of the Collector was erroneous or incomplete;
And whereas it is necessary to declare and define the powers and authority to be vested in Collectors in the conduct of
the said inquiries, and the adjustment of the differences arising out of or made known by them;
And whereas it further appears advisable that the revenue-officers should in certain cases be vested with authority
judicially to receive, here, investigate and determine suits, claims and demands of the above description;
And whereas it appears to be expedient to declare and explain the views and intentions of Government relative to the
rights to be enjoyed and exercised by the sadar malguzars or persons admitted to engage for the payment of the
Government revenue, and by persons collecting the rents of the land or revenue of Government, without being subject
to the payment of any portion of it to the public treasury, such as jagirdars and other owners or managers of lakhiraj
lands; and it is particularly necessary, in the case of estates held in pattidars or bhaiya chara tenure, to make further
provision for protecting the sharers who have not been admitted to engagement with Government against the
encroachments of the sadar malguzar, and likewise to secure the latter against the consequences of the embezzlement
or misappropriation by the former of the funds whence the Government revenue ought to be discharged;
For the purposes and objects above specified the following Rules have been enacted, to be in force [* * *]
[The words 'from the date of their promulgation, throughout the ceded and Conquered Provinces, Repealed by Act 1 of
Page 2/22
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Bengal Land-Revenue Settlement Regulation, 1822
1903.]
in the district of Cuttack, the pargana Pataspur and its dependencies.
2.
[* * * * * *]
[Repealed by Act 16 of 1874.]
General rule relative to zamindars holding on after expiration of their leases. - Sixth [* * *]
[Formal words repealed by Act 16 of 1874 are omitted.]
if any zamindar or other malguzar [acknowledged as the proprietor or possessor of a permanent interest in the mahal for
which he has engaged]
[Substituted by Schedule II of Act 1 of 1903 for as 'aforesaid'.]
who may now or hereafter be under engagement for the payment of the revenue demandable by Government on
account of any mahal, shall be allowed by the Revenue authorities to continue in the management of such mahal after
the expiration of such engagement, and shall do or direct any act relative to the cultivation or management of such
mahal, or the settlement assessment or collection of the rents of such mahal, in or on account of any year subsequent to
the term of such engagement, such zamindar or other malguzar aforesaid shall be held to be responsible on account of
such year for the same revenue as may have been demandable form him for the year preceding, unless otherwise
specially agreed upon:
Provided further that it shall be competent for Collectors or other officers exercising the power of Collector with the
sanction of the [Board]
[For the present constitutions and powers of the Board of Revenue, see B. & O. Act of 1913.]
or Commissioner to whom they may be subordinate, at any time, not being more than six months previous to the
expiration of a settlement, to call upon the zamindars or other malguzars as aforesaid to declare whether or not they are
willing to continue their engagements for the ensuing year, and, if such zamindars or other malguzars shall not forthwith
notify their refusal to do so, they shall be held to have agreed to such an extension of their leases at the existing
assessment, and so on, from year to year, as aforesaid.
Zamindars or other malguzars who may be allowed to hold on from year to year shall not be chargeable with any
additional revenue on account of any year, unless the Collector or other officer exercising the powers of [Collector]
[For the excise of the functions of Collectors by other officers, see Section 35.]
shall notify his intention to revise the assessment on or before the commencement of such year, unless where otherwise
specially provided.
3.
Settlement how made.
- With respect to estates which are at present let to farm, a settlement thereof shall be made on the expiration of the
existing leases for such a period as the [State]
[Substituted by ALO.]
Government may direct.
A preference shall be give to the zamindars or other persons possessing a permanent property in the mahals, if willing
to engage for the payment of the public revenue on reasonable terms:
Provided also that, in cases wherein such mahals, may be let in farm the term of the lease granted to the farmers shall
not exceed twelve years.
The above Rules shall likewise be applicable to estate now held khas.
So in any case wherein the zamindars and other proprietors may refuse to continue their existing engagements, or to
enter into new engagements, on equitable terms, it shall be competent to the Revenue-authorities to let the lands in farm
for such period, not exceeding twelve years, as the [State]
[Substituted by ALO.]
Government shall appoint, or to assume the direct management of them, and to retain them under khas management
during the period aforesaid or such shorter period as may be judged proper:
Provided further that, if in any case it shall appear to the Revenue authority that the continuance or admission of any
Raja, zamindar, talukdar or other person who may have engaged, or may claim to engage, for any mahal or mahals in or
to the management of such mahal or mahals, would endanger the public tranquillity or otherwise be seriously
detrimental, it shall be their duty to report the circumstances to the [State]
Page 3/22
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Bengal Land-Revenue Settlement Regulation, 1822
[Substituted by ALO.]
Government, and it shall be competent to the [State]
[Substituted by ALO.]
Government, [by notification in the [Official Gazette]
[The words 'by an Order in Council, in the original text, are to be read as if the words 'by Notification in the Local Official
Gazette' were substituted therefor - see Act 1 of 1903, Schedule II.]
, to cause such mahal or mahals or let in farm, for such term as may appear expedient and proper, not exceeding the
period above specified.
4.
Admission of particular persons to engage for payment of revenue, not to bar Revenue officers from interfering to adjust
rights of other persons or classes.
- In admitting particular parties to engage it was in no degree the intention of Government to compromise private rights
or privileges, or to vest the sadar malguzars with any rights not previously possessed by them, excepting in so far as
their interest in the land for which they may have engaged might be improved by the limitation of the Government
demand, or otherwise by the resignation in their favour of rights previously vested in Government itself, or as it may
have been found necessary, with a view to the punctual realization of the public dues, to vest the sadar malguzar, by
special Regulation, with authority of distraint, or other powers of coercion over the under-tenants.
On the contrary, it is the anxious desire of Government, and the bounden duty of its officers, to secure every one in the
possession of the rights and privileges which he may lawfully possess or be entitled to possess.
In pursuance of this principle, it is hereby declared and enacted that nothing in the above provisions for extending the
existing leases, or in the stipulations of the existing settlements, do or shall be construed to bar the Revenue-Officers,
duly empowered in that behalf, from interfering to adjust the respective rights of the sadar malguzars and their
under-tenants; nor shall any claims to a remission or abatement of revenue be admitted on the ground of any decision or
order passed in that behalf; but, if such decision or order shall operate materially to reduce the profits derived by any
zamindar or malguzar from the mahal owned or managed by him, it shall be competent for such zamindar or malguzar
to relinquish his engagements, and the Revenue Officers shall in such case proceed to make a settlement of the mahal
de novo.
5.
[* * * *]
[Clause First Repealed by Act 1 of 1903.]
Malikana to be allowed to proprietors of estate farmed or held khas. - [Second.]
[For an explanation of the rules in Section 5 as to malikana, see Bengal Reg. 9 of 1833.]
- The proprietors of estates let in farm or held khas shall be entitled to receive an allowance of malikana, at such rate as
the Board or other authority exercising the powers of that Board may determine, anything in the existing Regulation
notwithstanding; the said malikana to be apportioned in cases in which several proprietors may have heretofore held an
estate under one common assessment, whether in joint tenancy or otherwise, according to the shares of each
respectively:
Provided also that the malikana allowance granted to the proprietor or proprietors of any mahal shall not in any case be
less than five per cent, on the net amount realized by the [State]
[Substituted by ALO.]
Government from the lands; nor shall it exceed ten per cent, on the amount with the special sanction of the [State]
[Substituted by ALO.]
Government:
Provided further that, if the said proprietors shall in any case be in the receipt of any perquisite or the profits of any lands
in lieu of the naukar formerly granted to them [* *]
[The words 'by the Native Governments or otherwise' Repealed by ALO.]
in consideration of their proprietary tenure, the amount of such allowance shall be deducted from the malikana to which
they are by this Section declared to be entitled:
Provided also that this Rule shall not apply to such zamindars as may continue in the occupancy of their tenures whilst
the mahal in which they are included is held khas or farmed, or of any part of them, that is to say, zamindars who may
cultivate or lease their lands and pay the revenue to the farmer or Government Officer; nor, without the special sanction
Page 4/22
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Bengal Land-Revenue Settlement Regulation, 1822
of the [State]
[Substituted by ALO.]
Government, to any malguzar, zamindar or other, proprietor or holder of land who may directly or indirectly continue to
draw any allowance from the raiyats of the lands farmed or held khas:
Provided also that malguzars, not being actual proprietors of the land included in the estates for which they may have
formerly been under engagements though recorded in the accounts of past settlements as zamindars, talukdars or other
like, or being proprietors of a part only of such land, shall not receive the above allowance on the jama of the estate,but
shall receive such allowance in lieu of their title of management as it may appear to the [State]
[Substituted by ALO.]
Government to be equitable to assign, in addition to the malikana to which they may be entitled on account of any lands
held by them in actual property, and of which they may not retain the occupancy; and no malikana shall be granted to
any sadar malguzar on account of lands the occupants of which may deny his right of property, until he shall have
established his right by a regular suit in a Court of Justice, or to the satisfaction of the [Board.]
[For the present constitution and powers of the Board of Revenue, see B. and O. Act 1 of 1903.]
But in such cases such provision will be made for the intermediate support of the party as the [State]
[Substituted by ALO.]
Government may on the recommendation of the Board, see fit to direct.
Zamindars may be called non to state jamas for which they are willing to engage. - Third. - Provided also that, if any
zamindar or sadar malguzar shall have been called upon by a Collector or other officer exercising the powers of a
Collector to state the highest amount of jama for the payment of which he may be willing to engage, and shall have
stated the same accordingly, the sum so stated by such zamindar or sadar malguzar and not the jama ultimately
realized by the [State]
[Substituted by ALO.]
Government shall form the basis on which his malikana allowance shall be adjusted; and in such case it shall and may
be lawful for the Revenue Authorities to limit the said allowance to five per cent on the said sum, or to a portion thereof,
according to the extent of the proprietary interest possessed by the said zamindar or sadar malguzar:
Provided also that, if a zamindar or sadar malguzar, when so called upon, shall fail to specify or tender any sum as
aforesaid, then and in that case the net revenue derived by the [State]
[Substituted by ALO.]
Government from the mahal, on account of the year preceding that in which the Collector or other officer aforesaid may
make the said requisition, shall be taken as the sum by which the amount of malikana (not being less than five, nor more
than ten, per cent on the same) shall be adjusted.
6.
Revenue Officers may revise settlement of which existing lease shall be extended under Section 2, during continuance
of such extended lease.
- First. - In cases wherein the existing engagements may be continued in Section 2 of this Regulation, it shall and may
be lawful for the Collectors with the sanction of the [Board.]
[For the present constitution and powers of the Board of Revenue, see B. and O. Act 1 of 1903.]
[* * *]
[The words 'of Commissioners' Repealed by Act 16 of 1874.]
to enter at any time in the course thereof on a revision of the settlement notwithstanding such continuance of the
existing leases, and to adopt such measures as may be requisite for ascertaining and determining the extent and
produce of the lands, and the amount jama properly demandable therefrom, and for procuring and recording the fullest
possible information in regard to the rights, interest, privileges and properties of the agricultural community, and to
determine the same, with the same powers and authority as they now are or may hereafter be entitled to exercise in
forming the settlement of estates open to reassessment.
Revision of settlement how made. - Second. - The said revision of the settlement shall be made village by village and
mahal by mahal; and such number of mahals shall be revised in each year, as the [Board]
[For the present constitution and powers of the Board of Revenue, see B. and O. Act
1 of 1913
.]
Page 5/22
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Bengal Land-Revenue Settlement Regulation, 1822
under the orders of the [State]
[Substituted by ALO.]
Government may direct.
Revision of settlement not to operate to alter jama payable on account of lands included in existing engagement. - Third.
- Such revision of the settlement shall not operate to disturb the existing engagements during the period for which they
may be continued under the provisions of Section 2 of this Regulation in so far as such engagements relate to the
amount of jama demandable by Government; but the said engagements shall be held considered to include only such
villages and lands as may be specified in the proceedings or accounts of the settlement last concluded; and, if on the
revision of the settlement of any mahal it shall be found that there has been any material error or concealment of lands
belonging to such mahal the Collector shall be authorized, subject to the orders of the [Board,]
[For the present constitution and powers of the Board of Revenue, see B. and O. Act
1 of 1913
.]
separately to assess the lands so withheld from the knowledge of the Revenue-Authorities, in the same manner and with
the same powers as he would assess an unsettled mahal:
Provided also that nothing in this or the preceding sections shall be construed to prevent the Revenue-Officers from
passing and enforcing such orders in regard to the rights and interests to be I enjoyed by the different classes of
persons connected with any mahal during the period for which the existing settlement has been extended, as they may
or shall be authorized to pass or enforce when adjusting the assessment of an unsettled mahal.
[* * * *]
[Clause Fourth Repealed by Act 1 of 1903.]
7.
Leases to be granted on revision of settlement.
- First. - When a [Collector]
[For the exercise of the functions of Collectors by other officers see Section 35.]
[* * *]
[The words 'in the Ceded Provinces or,' Repealed by Act 1 of 1903.]
[in the province]
[The words 'Provinces' shall stand unmodified, see para 3 and Schedule VI of the ALO.]
of Cuttack shall have completed the revision of the settlement of any mahal under the Rules contained in the preceding
section it shall and may be lawful for him, subject to the orders of the Board [* * * *]
[The Words 'of Commissioner' Repealed by Act 16 of 1874.]
and [of the [State]
[Substituted by AO for Government]
Government], to grant to the proprietors, if willing to engage on adequate terms renewed lease for such further term of
years subsequent to the [year 1234]
[i.e., A.D. 1826.]
Fasli or Amli as the State Government may direct.
Jama for years subsequent to 1234, how adjusted - Second. - The assessment to be demanded on account of the years
subsequent to the year 1234 fasli to which lease renewed as above may extend, shall be fixed with reference to the
produce and capabilities of the lands as ascertained at the time when the revision of the settlement shall be made
unless under special circumstances justifying a prospective enhancement of the Government demand:
Provided also that the amount of such assessment shall not be raised above that of the present jama 9 unless it shall
clearly appear that the net profits to be derived from the land by the zamindars and others who may be entitled to share
in the profits arising out of the limitation of the Government demand will exceed one-fifth of that amount; and in, case
wherein any increase may be demanded, the assessment shall be so regulated as to leave the zamindars and others
aforesaid a net profit of twenty per cent on the amount of the jama payable by or through them respectively: no
abatement on the existing jama will be allowed unless on the clearest ground of necessity.
Pattas granted on revised settlement to cover only lands specified - Third. - The pattas granted on such revised
settlements shall be held only to secure the malguzars from further demand during the term of their respective leases,
on account of the lands specified in it, or described in the settlement rubakari of the [Collector]
Page 6/22
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Bengal Land-Revenue Settlement Regulation, 1822
[The Words 'of Commissioner' Repealed by Act 16 of 1874.]
with such allowance for error as may be distinctly declared at the time of settlement.
Zamindars and other persons entering into engagements will be required therefore to afford the fullest and most correct
information in regard to the raqba of the mahals for which they may engage.
[* * * * *]
[Clause Fourth Repealed by Act 1 of 1903.]
Power to postpone final settlement until expiration of current leases - Fifth. - If any zamindars or other sadar malguzar,
the settlement of whose estate may be revised under the above Rules, shall refuse to enter into suitable engagements
for a further period beyond the term of the then current lease, or if after such revision the Revenue Authorities shall
under any other circumstances deem it expedient to postpone taking further engagement of the revenue of any mahal
until the expiration of the current leases, it shall be competent to them to do so; and in such case the several Rules
contained in Section 3 of this Regulation relative to estates of which the settlement will expire with the present year,
shall on the expiration of the said lease be and be held applicable to such mahals.
Rules applied to estates in Pataspur, etc. - Sixth. - The same rules shall also be applicable to the several mahals within
[* * *]
[The words 'the district of Gorakhpur, the chakia Azamgarh' Repealed by Act 1 of 1903.]
pargana Pataspur and its dependencies, as they may respectively become, or be declared, open for resettlement.
8.
Letting of excess waste-lands. Allowance to zamindars.
- Where the waste-land belonging to or adjoining any mahal is very extensive, so as considerably to exceed the quantity
required for pasturage, or otherwise usefully appropriated, it shall be competent to the Revenue-Officers to grant leases
for the same to any persons who may be willing to undertake the cultivation in perpetuity, or for such periods as the
[State]
[Substituted by ALO.]
Government shall determine; and to assign to the zamindar or others who may establish a right of property in the lands
so granted an allowance equivalent to ten per cent, on the amount payable to Government by the lessees, in lieu and
bar of all claims to or in the waste-lands, so granted, or such other perquisites or privileges as by the custom of the
country they may appear in such cases entitled to receive.
9.
Investigations by Collectors making or revising settlements.
- First. - It shall be the duty of Collectors and other Officers exercising the powers of Collectors, on the occasion of
making or revising settlements of the land-revenue, to unite, with the adjustment of the assessment and the investigation
of the extent and produce of the lands, the object of ascertaining and recording the fullest possible information in regard
to landed tenures, the rights, interests and privileges of the various classes of the agricultural community.
For the this purpose their proceeding shall embrace the formation of as accurate a record as possible of all local usages
connected with landed tenures, as full as practicable a specification of all persons enjoying the possession and property
of the soil, or vested with any heritable or transferable interest in the land or the rents of it, care being taken to
distinguish the different modes of possession and property, and the real nature and extent of the interests held, more
especially where several persons may hold interests in the same subject-matter of different kinds of degrees.
This record shall, in pattidari or bhaiya chara villages or the like, include an accurate register of all the coparceners not
merely the heads of divisions, such as the pattis, thoks or behris, but also as far as possible of every person who
occupies land, dispossess of its produce or receives rent as proprietor or as agent for one or more proprietors holding
land and disposing of its produce, or receiving the rents of it in common, with a detailed statement of the interior
arrangements adopted by the brotherhood for the distribution of the profits derived from sources common to the
coparcency where any such exist, and for determining the share of the Government jama and of the village-expenses
which each parcener is to contribute, or the other modes in which the engaging parcener or intermediate pattidars and
behridars collect from the cultivators.
A record shall likewise be formed of the rates per bigha of each description of land or kind of produce demandable from
the resident cultivators not claiming any transferable property in the soil, whether possessing the right of hereditary
occupancy or not, and the respective shares of the sadar malguzar or other manager, and the cultivator in lands
cultivated under kankut batai or similar engagements, with a distinct specification of all cases or extra collections made
Page 7/22
----- PAGE 8 -----
The Bengal Land-Revenue Settlement Regulation, 1822
by the malguzar or village manager, or other.
The names of all the village-patwaris and village watchmen shall also be registered, with a statement of the amount and
nature of the allowance assigned to them.
And all lakhiraj tenures shall be carefully recorded, with a specification of the nature of the tenure.
The information collected on the above points shall be so arranged and recorded as to admit of an immediate reference
hereafter by the Courts of Judicature, it being understood and declared that all decisions on the demands of the
zamindars shall hereafter be regulated by the rates of rent and modes of payment avowed and ascertained at the
settlement, and recorded in the Collector's proceedings until distinctly altered by mutual agreement, or after full
investigation in a regular suit and all cesses or collections not avowed and sanctioned, nor taken into account in fixing
the Government jama, shall be held illegal and unauthorized, unless now or after specially [sanctioned by the [State]
[Substituted by the AO for the words 'sanctioned by Government'.]
Government.]
Collectors, etc., may grant pattas to mufassal zamindars and raiyats. - Second - Provided also that it shall be competent
to Collectors and other officer as aforesaid subject to the orders of the Board [* * *]
[The words 'of Commissioners' Repealed by Act 16 of 1874.]
to grant pattas to the several mufassal zamindars and raiyats or other owners or occupants of land, for the land owned
or occupied by them specifying the amount to be paid by them, and all the conditions attaching to their tenure, and a
register of all pattas so granted shall form a part of rubakari of settlement.
Power to take engagements for revenue with completing detailed inquiry. - Third - Provided, however, that, if from the
number of estates of which the leases may at once expire in any district, from any other special cause, it shall be found
necessary, for the security of the Government revenue, to take engagements from any zamindar, malguzar or farmer
without completing the detailed inquires above directed, it shall be competent to the [Board]
[Substituted by Schedule II of Act 1 of 1903 for 'Boards'.]
of Revenue or other authority exercising the powers of [that Board]
[Substituted by Act 1 of 1903, for the words 'such a Board'.]
to cause engagements for the revenue to be taken in the manner heretofore in use, reporting the circumstances to the
[State]
[Substituted by ALO.]
Government, but the term of the engagements so taken shall not exceed five years, and the rules relative to the revision
of the settlements of mahals of which the existing leases have been extended under the provisions of Section 2 of this
Regulation shall be equally applicable to estates for which such engagements shall be taken.
10.
Power to determine which of several holders of differing interests having separate properties in same land, shall be
admitted to engage, and to prescribe distribution of profit resulting from limitation of jama.
- First. - Of several parties possessing separate heritable and transferable properties in any parcel of land or in the
produce or rent thereof, such properties consisting of interests of different kinds, it shall be competent to the [State]
[Substituted by ALO.]
Government to determine and direct which of such parties shall be admitted to engage for the payment of the
Government revenue, due provision being made for securing the right of the remaining parties.
It is further hereby declared and enacted that it is and [shall]
[Substituted by Section 2, Schedule, Part I, of B and O. Act 3 of 1916, for the words 'shall be competent to the Governor
General-in-Council'.]
be competent to the [State]
[Substituted by ALO.]
Government or such other authority to whom the power to confirm settlements may be delegated by the [State]
[Substituted by ALO.]
Government by notification in the [Official Gazette]
[Substituted by AO for the words 'local Official Gazette'.]
in confirming the settlement of any mahal in perpetuity or for a term of years, to determine and prescribe the manner and
proportion in which the net rent or profit arising out of the limitation of Government demand shall be distributed among
the different parties possessing, an interest in the lands appertaining to such mahal or in the rent or produce of such
Page 8/22
----- PAGE 9 -----
The Bengal Land-Revenue Settlement Regulation, 1822
lands or mahal.
Mufassal settlements in cases where title of intermediate manager between the Government and proprietors or
hereditary occupants of soil are maintained. - Second. - In cases wherein any land appertaining to a mahal hitherto
recognized as the taluk, zamindari or the like, of one or more sadar mulguzars, may be owned or occupied by other
persons holding under the sadar malguzar and possessing an heritable and transferable property therein or an
hereditary right of occupancy subject to the payment of a fixed rent, or of a rent determinable by a fixed principle, if the
title of the said sadar malguzar to engage for the revenue be upheld, and generally in case wherein the tenure of an
intermediate malguzar or manager between [the Government]
[Substituted by ALO for the word 'Crown'.]
and the proprietors or hereditary occupants of the soil may be maintained, whether the Government revenue be
collected from the zamindar, talukdar or other hereditary intermediate malguzar or the mahal be farmed or held khas, it
shall be competent to the Collectors or other Officers who may be employed in adjusting the jama to be assessed on
such mahal with the sanction of the Board previously obtained and subject to the orders and directions of that authority,
to make a mufassal settlement with each of the proprietors or occupants aforesaid for the land possessed by him, and to
grant such proprietors or occupants pattas defining the conditions on which they are to hold their land, whether
subordinate to the sadar malguzar or to the farmer or officer of [the Government]
[Substituted by ALO for the word 'Crown'.]
employed in the khas management; and in all such cases, if engagements for the Government revenue of the mahal be
taken from the intermediate hereditary malguzar, the particulars of the mufassal settlement, when approved by the
Board, shall be endorsed on the patta to be granted to the sadar malguzar or shall be so incorporated with the
engagement taken from him as to form part of the same.
Settlement where several persons hold common property subject to common obligation. - Third. - In cases in which two
or more persons may possess a joint property in the village, mahal or parcel or land, or in the rent or produce of any
village, mahal, or land, or in any part of such village, mahal, land, rent or produce, the property of such persons
consisting of interests of the same kind, whether of the same extent or otherwise as well as in cases wherein such
property in any mahal, village, land, produce or rent may be separately possessed by parties subject by prescriptive
usage to common obligations, whether existing or contingent, it shall be competent to the Collector or other officer
exercising the powers of Collector, subject to the orders and directions of the Board and of the [State]
[Substituted by ALO.]
Government, either to make a joint settlement with the parties collectively or a majority of them, or with an agent
appointed by them or a majority of them, or to select one or more of them to undertake the management of the mahal as
sadar malguzars, due advertence being had to the wishes of all the coparceners, and to the past custom of the village or
villages comprised in the mahal.
When joint settlement to be made, parties how summoned - Fourth. - When it shall be determined to make a joint
settlement for any village, mahal or parcel of land with the parties possessing therein a joint property as aforesaid, the
Collector or other officer making the settlement shall give notice of his intention, by a written proclamation to be struck
up in some public place within the village, mahal or land, and shall require all persons possessing therein a property as
aforesaid to attend, either in person or by representative duly authorized in the matter, within a reasonable period, at a
stated place and time, and to declare their agreement or non-agreement to the jama proposed to be assessed on the
village or land.
Persons wilfully failing to attend when summoned to be bound by decision of majority present. - Fifth. - If any person or
persons, when summoned as above, shall refuse, neglect or omit to attend, either in person or by representative, such
person or persons shall be held to be bound by the decision of the majority of those who may attend, in agreeing or
disagreeing to the jama, and his or their interest and estate shall, unless otherwise specially allowed be held responsible
for the Government revenue, and be liable to sale in the event of any arrear accruing on account of the settlement.
Treatment of parceners not joining in settlement. - Sixth. - If any person or persons shall attend and shall object to the
jama proposed to be assessed, then, should a settlement be made with the other parties present, the objecting parties
shall be left in the enjoyment of the same rights and interests as they would enjoy in the event of the mahal being
farmed or held khas; and, in so far as regards the lands to which such rights and interests attach, the other parceners, if
their engagements be extended thereto, shall be considered farmers of the Government revenue to hold the same under
leases of such term as may be determined and agreed upon under the general rules applicable to lands for which the
Page 9/22
----- PAGE 10 -----
The Bengal Land-Revenue Settlement Regulation, 1822
proprietors may refuse to engage.
Rates of rent of cultivating proprietors of lands of which revenue collected khas or farmed. - Seventh. - When any mahal
or portion of a mahal, held by a number of cultivating proprietors in pattidari or bhaiya chara tenure or the like, shall be
let in farm or held khas, the rent demandable from the proprietors of such mahal or portion of mahal on account of the
land occupied and cultivated by themselves, shall be adjusted by the rates payable by raiyats or other resident
cultivators not having an heritable and transferable property in the soil, for lands of a similar description in the same or in
the adjoining villages, with a deduction of five per cent, on account of malikana, or such other rate, not being less than
five per cent., as the [State]
[Substituted by ALO.]
Government determine.
Liability for default of non-engaging parceners when settlement of mahal made with one or more of them as sadar
malguzar - Eighth. - When it shall be determined to make a settlement of a mahal of the above description with one or
more of the parceners selected to manage, collect and account for the public revenue as sadar malguzar, then and in
that case the interests of the non-engaging parceners shall not be held answerable for the default of the sadar
malguzars, save and except in so far as may be specifically provided.
Such parceners shall, until regularly separated, continue to hold their lands as subordinate proprietors, subject to the
payment of rent or revenue to the sadar malguzar at the rates and in the mode heretofore in use, excepting in so far as
that usage may be affected by the determination of the [State]
[Substituted by ALO.]
Government in regard to the distribution of the net rent or profit derived from the limitation of the Government demand or
by the Rules now in force or hereafter to be enacted, for vesting the sadar malguzars with specific powers over the
subordinate tenants in the collection of the rent or revenue demandable from them.
The responsibility attaching to the persons selected as sadar malguzars anti the conditions under which they are to hold
that title of management will in each case be specifically declared at or after the time when the settlement is confirmed.
The conditions and limitations under which the subordinate proprietors shall be admitted to separate engagements will
also be similarly declared.
Parcels owned and occupied may be separately settled. - Ninth - Provided further that, in all cases wherein different
parcels of land belonging to any mahal may be separately owned and occupied by different proprietors or by different
bodies of proprietors, it shall be competent to the [Board]
[Substituted by Schedule II of Act 1 of 1903, for 'Boards'.]
of Revenue or other authority exercising the powers of [Board]
[For the present constitution and powers of the Board of Revenue, see B. & O. Act
1 of 1913
.]
to cause a separate settlement to be made for the land owned and occupied by each proprietor or by each body of
proprietors and each parcel of land for which a separate settlement may be so made shall be held exclusively
responsible for the revenue assessed upon it.
Power to partition and to settle separately with each proprietor. - Provided also that, if the several parties possessing to
joint property or separate properties subject to a common obligation as aforesaid, or any of them, shall apply to a
Collector or other [officer]
[For the exercise of the functions of Collectors by other officers, see Section 35.]
making or revising a settlement to have separate possession of their several share or shares in such joint property, or to
be admitted to separate engagements, it shall be competent to such Collector or other [officer,]
[For the exercise of the functions of Collectors by other officers, see Section 35.]
with the sanction of the [Board]
[Substituted by Schedule II of Act 1 of 1903, for 'Boards'.]
or other authority to which he may be subordinate, to make a partition of the property among the different parties
according to their respective interests, and to make a separate settlement with each of them or with such parties as may
desire to enter into separate engagements.
Proprietors excluded from engagements may have their names registered. - Tenth. - In all cases wherein any proprietor
may be excluded from engagements the [Collector]
Page 10/22
----- PAGE 11 -----
The Bengal Land-Revenue Settlement Regulation, 1822
[For the exercise of the functions of Collectors by other officers, see Section 35.]
shall be careful to let it be known that all persons possessing a property in the mahal are entitled to have there names
recorded in the rubakari of settlement, with the amount or rate of the assessment demandable from each.
11.
Collectors forming such registry to proceed on basis of actual possession - First.
- The [Collector's]
[For the exercise of the functions of Collectors by other officers, see Section 35.]
proceedings in forming the registry above directed shall be founded on the basis of actual possession, and that officer
shall, in every instance, be careful to record the precise nature of the authority on which the entries in his books may be
made.
In conformity with the above principle it shall be competent to the Collectors or other [Officers]
[For the exercise of the functions of Collectors by other officers, see Section 35.]
when making or revising settlements, or otherwise deputed to investigate and determine the circumstances of any
mahal, and the tenures connected with it, to correct the errors or omissions of former settlements by admitting to
engagements or entering on the public records the names of the persons found in the bona fide possession of land or in
the receipt of rent under a proprietary title; and in such cases the [Collector]
[For the exercise of the functions of Collectors by other officers, see Section 35.]
will hold an official proceeding, explaining fully the grounds on which he may act.
12.
In estates held under pattidari, bhaiya-chara or like tenure, Collectors may re-allot revenue and charges payable by
several parceners.
- First. - In cases in which the proportion of the Government jama and village expenses payable by each proprietor and
by each body of proprietors comprised in several pattis, behris and other division of an estate held under pattidari or
bhaiya-chara tenure or the like may have been originally fixed on a measurement of the lands occupied by each, with
reference to the quantity in cultivation, and may be liable by the usage of the country to periodical adjustment on the
same principle, if the Collector or other officer making or revising the settlement shall be satisfied, by examination of the
patwaris accounts or otherwise, that the contributions paid by any proprietor, or body of proprietors as aforesaid, are
materially in excess of the amount justly demandable from them, it shall be competent to him, with the previous sanction
of the [Board]
[Substituted by Schedule II of Act 1 of 1903, for the word 'Boards'.]
to cause a new distribution to be made of the revenue and charges payable by each, with reference to the above
principle, and to such resolutions as the [State]
[Substituted by ALO.]
Government may have passed to the apportionment of the net rent or profits arising out of the limitation to the
Government demand, and in the performance of this duty to employ the kanungo and such person as he may judge it
advisable to appoint, and to settle the jama payable by the different parties according to the award of such person or
persons, or otherwise as shall appear to be just and equitable.
And in certain cases may make fresh partition of land. - Second. - In like manner, in cases in which the several
proprietors shall be entitled not only to an adjustment from time to time of the jama payable on account of the lands
occupied by them, but likewise to a periodical partition of the land of the village, with reference to the share recorded as
belonging to each, it shall be competent to the Collector or cause fresh partition of the lands and adjustment of the jama
to be made as above prescribed, and at the same time to fix and declare the period from which the arrangement as
finally settled is to have effect, and to adjust the claims of the parties relative to the revenue intermediately paid by them,
as may appear equitable:
Provided, however, that no such partition or adjustment shall be final until confirmed by the Board [* * *]
[The word 'of Commissioners' Repealed by Act 16 of 1874.]
or other authority exercising the powers of that Board.
Cases in which parties affected by Collector's decision may contest it in Court. - Provided also, that, if any parties shall
dispute the existence of the usage under which the partition of the lands shall have been made, and shall claim to be
restored to possession of the lands which the Collectors may have transferred to another, or shall consider himself
entitled to the benefit of a new partition of the lands comprised in the mahal to which he may belong, in any case in
Page 11/22
----- PAGE 12 -----
The Bengal Land-Revenue Settlement Regulation, 1822
which the Collector may have refused to order it, shall be competent to the said party to bring a regular suit in the Zila
Court against the person or persons to whom the land may have been transferred, or the person or persons who may
resist the partition, to try the justness of the Collector's decision; but, if the existence of the usage shall be admitted or
established, it shall not be competent to the courts of Judicature to question the accuracy of the partition of the land or
adjustment of the jama.
On what points Revenue Officer's decision conclusive. - And, whenever the decision of a Collector for the partition of
any land shall be set aside, it will of course belong to Revenue Authorities to re-adjust the jama with reference to the
interests of the parties as defined and settled by the final decision of the Courts of Judicature, and to the conditions of
the tenure, and to any general or special resolution of the [State]
[Substituted by ALO.]
Government relative to the distribution of the rent or profit arising out of the limitation of the public assessment.
13.
Collectors not to disturb possession unless specially authorized.
- Collectors and other officers exercising the powers of Collectors shall not, unless where specially authorized in the
manner prescribed in this or some other [law]
[Substituted by Schedule II of Act 1 of 1903, for 'Regulation'.]
, do any act tending to disturb possession, but shall leave the Adalat to investigate in a regular suit all claims of persons
not in possession but deeming themselves entitled to be so.
14.
[ Collectors making or revising settlements may declare nature and extent of interests of persons occupying land.
[For the partial repeal of Section 14 by Bengal Reg. 9 of 1833, Section 3.]
- First. - Collectors making or revising settlements shall, in cases in which any dispute may exist in regard to the nature
of the tenure of any persons occupying the soil, be competent to declare in an official proceeding, to be incorporated in
the rubakari of settlement, the nature and extent of the interests actually possessed by such occupant, referring to the
denominations heretofore applied to him only as one means of proof in regard to the nature of the interest, but stating at
length,with specification of any examination he may take for his satisfaction, the grounds of his determination;]
so also in cases of dispute regarding the extent of the interest belonging to any sharer in a village or villages held under
pattidar bhaiyar or the like tenure, such sharer having actual possession of a portion of such village or villages, or being
in the actual receipt as proprietor of a share of the joint profits of the land, it shall be competent to the Collectors to
decide the point in the first instance in the rubakari of settlement, and to enforce his decision, leaving the party who may
deem himself aggrieved to seek redress by a regular suit in the Courts to try the right;
but nothing herein contained shall be construed to authorize the Courts to interfere with the decision of the Collector in
regard to the amount or proportion of jama to be assessed on any parcel of land, or in respect to the quantity and
description of land, to be assigned in partition to the holder of any specific share of a joint estate.
Cognizance of claims to larger profits or larger shares of village, than hitherto. - Second. - The above Rule shall not be
construed to empower Collectors, unless otherwise authorized, to take cognizance of any claim to receive a larger
portion, of the common profits than the claimant has hitherto enjoyed, or to hold a larger portion of the village or villages
than he has hitherto occupied.
Maintenance by Courts of decisions, of Revenue Officers-Bar to interference by Courts. - Third. - The decisions passed
by the Collectors under the above powers if not altered or annulled by the Board or by the [State]
[Substituted by ALO.]
Government, shall be maintained by the Courts, unless on investigation in a regular suit it shall appear that the
possession held under such a decision is wrongful, and nothing herein contained shall be understood to authorize any
Court to interfere with the decision of the Revenue-authorities relative to the jama to be assessed on any mahal or
portion of a mahal or to the extent and description of lands belonging to any mahal that may be assigned on the partition
of the same to the several parceners concerned.
Cognizance by Collectors of complaints of wrongful dispossession. - Fourth. - If any person shall complain to a Collector
or other officer making or revising the settlement of any mahal that he has been wrongfully disposed from any lands,
premises, crops, orchards, pasture-grounds, fisheries, wells watercourses, tanks, reservoirs or the like, within such
mahal, or of the rents, produce or profits of such lands, premises, etc., the like as aforesaid, or that he has been
wrongfully disturbed in the possession thereof, it shall be competent to the Collector or other officer aforesaid to inquire
Page 12/22
----- PAGE 13 -----
The Bengal Land-Revenue Settlement Regulation, 1822
into the matter, and if the party so complaining shall appear to have been in possession in the year preceding that in
which the complaint is brought, and there shall otherwise be reason to believe that he has been violently or wrongfully
dispossessed or disturbed, it shall be competent to the Collector to restore or confirm him, recording the grounds of his
determination in a rubakari; and the opposite party shall in such case be left to bring a regular suit in Court to try the
question of right.
Adjustment of disputes as to possession. - In like manner, should a Collector or other officer as aforesaid find that there
exist in any mahal of which he may be making or revising the settlement any disputes, relative to the possession of
lands, premises or the like which it may be expedient to adjust, it shall be competent to the Collector or other officer
aforesaid to pass a decision determining the point of possession, leaving the question of right, if further disputed, to be
settled by the result of a regular suit in the Adalat.
Cases to which foregoing provisions apply. - Fifth. - The above provisions will be held to apply to all cases in which a
zamindar or under-tenant, whether farmer or raiyat having by special deed or prescriptive title a right of occupancy, shall
have been wrongfully ousted from the occupancy of lands held and cultivated by him in the preceding year, or in which
the rents and profits of any land which were received by such dispossessed party in the preceding year shall be withheld
that from him without a legal award, or a voluntary act of the party involving the transfer, renunciation or relinquishment
of such rents and profits.
But the above Rule shall not apply to any case in which the complaining party may have executed any deed purporting
to be a relinquishment of possession, unless it shall have been established by some judicial proceeding that such deed
was extorted by force and terror, nor to any cases wherein the complainant shall have in any way lost or relinquished
possession previously to the commencement of the year preceding that in which the complaint may be preferred.
15.
In setting resumed mahals Collectors may take cognizance of claims to property therein, and may give possession to
parties appearing to have best title.
- In the settlement of any resumed mahal held or pretended to be held under sanads from the ruling power, or from the a
mils or [Officers of the [Government]
[Substituted by AO for the words 'officers of the Government'.]
, whether such lands shall have been heretofore subject to the payment of revenue or otherwise, it shall be competent to
the Collector or other officer making the settlement to hear, try and determine all claims to the property and possession
of the land comprising such mahal or the rents or produce thereof, anything in the existing Regulations notwithstanding,
and subject to the orders and direction of the Board of Revenue or other authority exercising the powers of that Board to
give possession to, and conclude a settlement with, the party who may appear to have the best title, leaving other
claimants to establish their claims by a regular suit in the zila [* * *]
[The words 'or Provincial' Repealed by Act 16 of 1874.]
Court, by which [* * *]
[The words 'according to the value of the interest at stake' Repealed by Act 16 of 1874.]
all decisions passed by Revenue-authorities under this section may, on such suit being fully heard, sued and
determined, and not otherwise, be revised, annulled or altered.
Limitation of Rule. - The above rule shall not extend to land free of assessment under grants made by or at the request
of the proprietors themselves or their representatives, the settlement of which shall ordinarily be made with the parties in
possession, if willing to engage on adequate terms.
16.
Power to grant to Collectors making or revising settlement special authority to take cognizance of claims to property and
possession of land.
-  It shall be competent to the [State]
[Substituted by ALO.]
Government to grant to a Collector making or revising the settlement of any mahal whether the same may have been
held by a lakhiraj tenure resumed, or malguzari may have become open to re-settlement in ordinary course, special
authority to hear, try and determine as above all claims to the property and possession of the lands lying within such
mahals or the rent or produce thereof, and to give possession to the party who may appear to have the best title subject
to the orders and direction of the Board and further subject, as above, to the revision of the zila [* * *]
[The words 'or Provincial' Repealed by Act 16 of 1874.]
Page 13/22
----- PAGE 14 -----
The Bengal Land-Revenue Settlement Regulation, 1822
Court on a regular suit:
Provided also that, whenever special authority may be given to any Collector as aforesaid, notice of the order of
Government shall be published by a proclamation within the mahals to which the authority so given may extend, and it
shall be the duty of the Collectors and the [Board]
[Substituted by Schedule II of Act 1 of 1903, for the word 'Boards'.]
to see that such proclamation is duly made.
But no decision passed by a Collector under this or any other Section whereby such notification is required shall be
disturbed by any Court of Judicature, otherwise than after a full and regular investigation of merits, on the plea that
proclamation was not made.
17.
Power to take cognizance of claims to property in lands held lakhiraj, or at a Mukarrari Jama and valid tenures, and to
settle with proprietors on behalf of lakhirajdar or mukarraridar.
- It shall be competent to Collectors5 and officers engaged in making or revising settlement of any parganas, mauza or
other local division, on the application of persons claiming a right of property in lands held free of assessment, or at a
mukarrari jama, under unquestioned grants from the ruling powers, or from the amils or other [officers of the
[Government]
[Substituted by ALO for the words 'officers of Government'.]
, and situate within or adjoining to such pargana, mauza or other local division to receive, try and determine the claim,
and it satisfied that the applicants do possess or are entitled to possess any hereditary and transferable property in the
land or the produce or rent thereof, the [Collector]
[For the exercise of the functions of Collectors by other officers, see Section 35.]
or other officer, with the [sanction of the [State]
[Substituted by AO for the words 'sanction of Government'.]
Government] previously obtained, shall be authorized to conclude a settlement with them on behalf of the lakhirajdar or
mukarraridar for such period as the [State]
[Substituted by Para. 4 (1) of the ALO for the word 'Provincial'.]
Government may direct, and shall grant to each of the said proprietors pattas defining the conditions on which they are
to hold their lands subordinate to the lakhirajdar or mukarraridar.
It shall further be competent to the [Collector]
[For the exercise of the functions of Collectors by other officers, see Section 35.]
under the orders of the [Board]
[For the present constitution and powers of the Board of Revenue, see B. and O. Act
1 of 1913
.]
[* * *]
[The words 'of Commissioners,' Repealed by Act 16 of 1874.]
to fix and declare the amount of malikana or other proprietary allowance to be paid by such lakhirajdars or mukarraridars
to the said proprietors, in the event of their being divested of the occupancy and management of their lands:
Provided, however, that either party who may be dissatisfied with the decision of the [Collector]
[For the exercise of the functions of Collectors by other officers, see Section 35.]
as to the question of the right of property shall be at liberty to contest the same in a regular suit in the Adalat; but the
Court shall not interfere to alter the terms on which this settlement may have been made by [Collector]
[For the exercise of the functions of Collectors by other officers, see Section 35.]
with proprietors, or the amount of malikana granted to such persons.
18.
Collectors to be judges of question of jurisdiction.
- The [Collector]
[For the exercise of the functions of Collectors by other officers, see Section 35.]
shall in cases of doubt be judge of the question, subject to the orders of the [Board]
[For the present constitution and powers of the Board of Revenue, see B. and O. Act
1 of 1913
Page 14/22
----- PAGE 15 -----
The Bengal Land-Revenue Settlement Regulation, 1822
.]
and [of the [State]
[Substituted by AO for the words 'of Government'.]
Government]; and the Courts of Judicature shall not disturb possession given by the [Collector]
[For the exercise of the functions of Collectors by other officers, see Section 35.]
except on a regular suit, and on a decision as to the right.
19.
Collectors authorized to summon witnesses and require production of account.
- First. - It shall be competent to [Collectors]
[For the exercise of the functions of Collectors by other officers, see Section 35.]
when prosecuting the above enquiries or hearing and trying the above suits, or otherwise when may be subordinate, to
require, all sadar malguzars and other person owning, occupying managing or cultivating any lands within or in the
vicinity of the mahal to which their inquires may extend, or gathering or disposing of the produce thereof, or collecting,
enjoying or appropriating any rent or revenue derived therefrom, as well as the gumashtas or other agents employed by
such person in the management or cultivation of the land, or in the collection of the rent, produce or revenue thereof to
attend and produce all accounts or other papers which they may respectively possess relative to such lands, produce,
rent or revenue, and to examine the said persons on oath, or halafnama to the truth of the accounts produced, or any
other matter relating to such accounts, or regarding the lands, produce, rent or revenue of the mahal or the rights and
interests attaching to such lands, produce, rent or [revenue]
[For penalty on landholders for not attending when summoned by the Collectors, see Act 20 of 1818.]
:
Provided, however, that no person shall be compelled to answer on oath or solemn declaration any interrogation
regarding matters wherein he may have an immediate personal interest in concealing the truth, or in uttering what is
false, not being an interest arising out of fear, favour or reward, or any corrupt bargain or agreement with another party.
Rules of Regulation 2, 1819, applied to process issued by Collectors. - Second. - The Rules contained in Section 11,
Regulation 2, 1819, relative to the mode of serving process on persons who may be required to attend and produce
accounts under the provisions of that Regulation shall be held applicable to process issued by [Collector]
[For the exercise of the functions of Collectors by other officers, see Section 35.]
or other officers under the rules contained in this Regulation.
also to patwaris and others summoned or examined. - In like manner the provisions of Section 12 of the said Regulation
shall be applicable to all patawaris, gumashtas or other persons by whom the account of any lands, regarding which the
said inquiries may have been instituted, may be kept, and who, after being duly summoned as aforesaid, may neglect or
omit to produce any of the accounts required from them, or to give their evidence regarding them, or who may
deliberately give a false deposition on oath or solemn declaration, when summoned and examined as aforesaid, or
whom may alter, fabricate, falsify or mutilate the accounts which they may be required to produce.
Powers of Collectors. Rules applied to other persons upon whom process may be issued. - Provided further that
[Collectors]
[For the exercise of the functions of Collectors by other officers, see Section 35.]
and other officers employed in the settlement of the land-revenue, or in any of the inquires specified in this Regulation,
shall be vested with all powers and authority which are or may be lawfully exercised by Collectors in cases depending
before them under Regulation 2, 1819 and the rules contained in clause third, Sections 13, 14 and 19 of the said
Regulation shall be and be held applicable to all persons who may be summoned by any [Collector]
[For the exercise of the functions of Collectors by other officers, see Section 35.]
or other officer aforesaid, or who may resist the process of a Collector issued under the rules of this Regulation, or who
may refuse to take an oath or subscribe a solemn declaration when required, or who may deliberately give a false
deposition on oath or under a solemn declaration taken instead of an oath, or may cause or procure another to do so.
20.
Powers ordinarily vested in Collectors making or revising settlements.
- First. - The powers specified in Sections 11, 12, 14, 15, 17, 18 and 19 of this Regulation shall be ordinarily exercised
by Collectors when employed in making or revising settlements of the land-revenue and shall extend to all the lands
comprised in the pargana in which he may be so employed; but it shall be competent to [the [State]
Page 15/22
----- PAGE 16 -----
The Bengal Land-Revenue Settlement Regulation, 1822
[The words 'the Government, by an Order in Council, in the original text, are to be read as if the words 'the Local
Government, by notification in the local Official Gazette', were substituted therefor - see Act 1 of 1903, Schedule II.]
Government] by notification in the [Official Gazette]
[Substituted by AO for 'Local Official Gazette'.]
, to be publicly proclaimed in the district to restrict the authority of [Collectors]
[For the exercise of the functions of Collectors by other officers, see Section 35.]
and other officers making settlement in such manner and to such extent as [it]
[The Word 'he' in the original text is to be read as if the word 'it' were substituted therefor - see Act 1 of 1903, Schedule
II.]
may from time to time judge expedient.
In like manner it shall be competent to [the [State]
[The words 'the Government, by an Order in Council, in the original text, are to be read as if the words 'the Local
Government, by Notification in the Local Official Gazette', were substituted therefor - see Act 1 of 1903, Schedule II.]
Government] to vest such [Collectors]
[For the exercise of the functions of Collectors by other officers, see Section 35.]
as may from time to time be judged fit with a special authority to receive, try and determine in the first instance, subject
to a regular suit in the Adalat as above provided, all or any of the questions of the nature specified in the aforesaid
section, though the said [Collectors]
[For the exercise of the functions of Collectors by other officers, see Section 35.]
may not be engaged in making or revising a settlement of the land-revenue;
and to vest in such of the Collectors as may be thought proper authority (either generally or within such limits as may be
from time to time determined) to receive, try and determined by summary process all suits for rent which may be
preferred by zamindars, talukdars or other sadar malguzars or farmers of land, or by any person in their behalf, against
any dependent tatukdar, zamindar, under-renter, raiyats or other under-tenant of whatever denomination, as well as all
applications by raiyat and the under-tenants contesting the demand of a sadar malguzar or farmer;
and all complaints preferred by raiyats or other under-tenants of whatever description, against landholders or farmers of
land, or their respective agents or representatives on account of excessive demand or undue exaction of rent, whether
levied by distraint or otherwise, as well as all suits relative to the adjustment of accounts between landholders and
farmers of land or under-tenants of whatever description, with their sureties, or with any agent or persons employed by
them in the management of land, or the collection or payment of the rent of land, and to all other matters immediately
connected with the demand, receipt or payment of the rent of land, whether malguzari or lakhiraj, or with the rent of
orchards, pasture-ground, and fisheries, commonly denominated phalkar, bankar and jalkar with any other asset of the
land-revenue not included in the sair abolished, together with all complaints of the non-delivery of pattas when
demandable under the Regulations, or complaints of the prescribed receipts not being given for actual payment of rent,
and generally complaints of any deviation from the Regulations, or from the established usage of the country, relative to
the matters aforesaid, or any violation of subsisting engagements in disputes respecting the rent and occupancy of land
between landholders or farmers of land and their under-tenants of whatever denomination.
Appointment of Collector to discharge above duties, how notified. - Second. - The appointment of the [Collector]
[For the exercise of the functions of Collectors by other officers, see Section 35.]
to the discharge of the above duties, and the extent of the jurisdiction to be assigned to him, shall be notified by
proclamation in the district, after such manner as the [State]
[Substituted by ALO.]
Government may direct;
and after the publication of notice, all summary suits, actions, applications and complaints of the above nature, and
referring to lands or the rents, produce or accessions of land lying within the jurisdiction assigned to the Collector as
above, which may be preferred in the Zila [* * *]
[The words 'or City' Repealed by Act 16 of 1874.]
Adalat by any sadar malguzar, zamindar, talukdar, farmer, raiyat or other proprietor or under-tenant of land, shall
immediately, on being received, be referred, for trial to the Collector to whom also all such summary suits depending at
the time shall be transferred:
Provided also that in such cases parties having suits or complaints to prefer, of which the cognizance may be vested as
Page 16/22
----- PAGE 17 -----
The Bengal Land-Revenue Settlement Regulation, 1822
above in the Collector shall be at liberty to prefer them to that officer in the first instance.
It shall in like manner be competent to the [State]
[Substituted by ALO.]
Government to fix by notification in the [Official Gazette]
[Substituted by AO for the words 'Local Official Gazette'.]
the period at which the special powers given as above to a Collector, and the authority to be ordinarily exercised by
those officers on the occasion of making settlements shall cease and determine.
Limitation of times for preferring complaints specified. - Third. - No complaint or application of the nature specified in the
preceding clauses shall be received by a Collector under the rules of this Regulation, unless this plaint or application
shall have been preferred within the period of one year after the cause of action shall have arisen.
21.
Rules for guidance of Collector; their power.
- In summary suit for rent and the like, wherein special rules have been prescribed for regulating the process of the
Courts, the Collectors shall be guided by the same rules, and shall exercise the same powers and authority as are or
may be lawfully exercised by the Zila and City Judges.
In other cases falling under their cognizance according to the provisions of this Regulation, the ordinary process for
securing the attendance of the defendant or party otherwise impleaded shall be to issue a notice reciting the matter, and
requiring the defendant or other party to attend in person, or by representative, at such time and place as may be made
choice of by the Collector for conducting the investigation;
should any party fail to attend after being served with a notice of the above description, or should the return of the nazir
or person employed to serve the notice be, that after diligent search the partly or parties cannot be found, proclamation
shall be made in writing, to be stuck up at or near the ordinary residence of the party, stating that, after 15 days from the
date of publishing the same, the case will be liable to be brought up for trial and Judgement; and any party implicated
who, having been served with the notice above described, shall fail to attend or who shall continue to absent himself, will
be as much bound by the judgement that may be passed as if he or they had been in attendance to plead.
22.
[* * * *]
[Repealed by Act 10 of 1859.]
23.
Collector's cutcherry held a Civil Court.
- First. - It is hereby declared and enacted that, in so far as concerns the summoning and examination of witnesses,
penalties for false testimony, for resistance of process, contempt and all other similar matters connected with cases
under cognizance before the Collectors of land-revenue, or other officers, by virtue of the powers vested in them by this
Regulation or any [other law]
[Substituted by Act 1 of 1903, Schedule II for 'other Regulation.']
whereby Collectors are vested with judicial powers, their cutcherry or office for the time being shall be deemed and held
to be a Court of Civil Judicature.
Suits to contest Collector's decisions held to be appeals from summary awards. - Second. - Provided also that the
regular suits which may be brought to contest decisions passed by Collector under the powers vested in them by
Sections 11, 12, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, and 20 shall be of the nature of an appeal to Court in its regular jurisdiction from
a summary award. It shall not therefore be necessary for the Collector or other officer of Government to be a party in the
action.
Collectors authorized to execute their awards. - Third. - Collectors of the land-revenue are hereby empowered to
execute all awards made by them under the rules of this Regulation, in cases wherein a specific sum of money shall be
adjudged to be due, or any costs or damages be awarded; the Collector decreeing the same shall proceed to levy the
amount for the party in whose favour it may be adjudged by the process in use for the recovery of arrears of the
Government revenue:
Provided, however, that he shall not sell any lands, houses or other real property in satisfaction of any judgement
passed in favour of any individual on a summary inquiry.
In cases wherein possession of lands, houses, water-course or the like may be adjudged, it may and shall be lawful for
the Collector making the award to deliver over possession in the same manner and with the same powers in regard to all
Page 17/22
----- PAGE 18 -----
The Bengal Land-Revenue Settlement Regulation, 1822
contempt, resistance and the like as are or may be lawfully exercised by the Courts in giving possession to an
auction-purchaser; and the Zila [* * *]
[The words 'or City' Repealed by Act 16 of 1874.]
adalat shall support the [Collectors]
[For the exercise of the functions of Collectors by other officers, see Section 35.]
in the exercise of the above power, and shall give effect to any orders passed by them in pursuance of it in the like
manner as if the same had been passed by themselves.
[Collectors]
[For the exercise of the functions of Collectors by other officers, see Section 35.]
are further hereby employed to place one or more peons, mirdahas, sawars, or the like to aid in the maintenance of
possession for the party to whom it may be awarded, in case of his deeming such a measure necessary or expedient.
24.
Collectors authorized to depute officers to make inquiries preparatory to statement.
- First. - It shall and may be lawful for a Collector or other officer exercising the powers of [Collector]
[For the exercise of the functions of Collectors by other officers, see Section 35.]
preparatory to making or revising
a statement as aforesaid, depute any tahsildar, kanungo, amin or other fixed or temporary officer to any village or mahal,
whether the same be managed by a zamindar or farmer or be held khas, to inqure into the various matter which such
[Collector]
[For the exercise of the functions of Collectors by other officers, see Section 35.]
or other officer is required or empowered to investigate, in order to form settlement in the mode prescribed by this
Regulation.
Any such [* ' *]
[Words 'Native' Repealed by ALO.]
officer so deputed as above shall be deemed to be vested with the power of summoning and examining patwaris,
gumashtas or other persons by whom the accounts of the village or mahal may be kept, in the same manner and with
the same powers, as is provided for officer deputed under Section 25, Regulation 12, 1817.
Furthermore, in case the [Collector]
[For the exercise of the functions of Collectors by other officers, see Section 35.]
or other officer may so prescribe, the said tahsildar or other person shall be empowered to make a measurement of the
village or mahal into which they may be deputed, and to summon any mukaddams, pardhans, raiyats, or other residents,
and to call upon them to point out the boundaries of such village or mahal, and to furnish information as to all matters
relating to the land and the rights and interest attaching thereto; and any person contumaciously withholding information
from an officer deputed as aforesaid shall be liable, on the same being established to the Collectors satisfaction to the
same penalty as is prescribed for patwaris refusing to attend or give evidence.
Punishment of resistance or obstruction of process or order of Collector. - Second. - Provided also that any person who
may by force or threat obstruct or resist the execution of any legal process, requisition or order of a [Collector]
[For the exercise of the functions of Collectors by other officers, see Section 35.]
or other Revenue Officer shall, in addition to the penalties prescribed by [any other law]
[Substituted by Act 1 of 1903, Schedule II, for 'the existing Regulations'.]
for such act, be liable to a fine exceeding two hundred rupees, or to imprisonment in the Diwani jail for period not
exceeding two months; the said fine or other penalty to be adjudged by the [Collector]
[For the exercise of the functions of Collectors by other officers, see Section 35.]
after proceeding duly held and recorded and sentence to be immediately reported to the [Board]
[For the present constitution and powers of the Board of Revenue, see B. and O. Act
1 of 1913
.]
which he may be subject.
Police officers to aid execution of process and orders of Collector. -  Third. - Provided further that all police-officers shall
aid and support the execution of all process and orders issued by a Collector or other Officer aforesaid, on the
responsibility of the officer issuing or executing the same; and if any affray or breach of the peace shall occur in
Page 18/22
----- PAGE 19 -----
The Bengal Land-Revenue Settlement Regulation, 1822
consequence of any resistance or obstruction behind made, or attempted to be made, to the legal process or order of a
[Collector]
[For the exercise of the functions of Collectors by other officers, see Section 35.]
or other Revenue-officer, the parties resisting or obstructing such process or order shall be punishable for the affray or
breach of the peace, and the Revenue-Officers shall not be liable to any criminal prosecution on that account.
25.
[Repealed by Act 20 of 1866].
26.
Pleadings required.
- No. other pleadings shall be required from the parties in [suits the cognizance of which is hereby vested in Collectors]
[Substituted by Act 1 of 1903, Schedule II for 'such suits'.]
other than a plaint and answer:
Provided that, if the parties should at any time wish to file an amended plaint or an amended answer, or any explanatory
motion, such subsidiary pleadings shall be received.
27.
[Repealed by Act 12 of 1876].
28.
Collectors may try and determine suits in any part of their districts.
- It shall be competent to the Collectors to hear and determine such suits in whatever part of the district they may
occasionally be or reside:
Provided that every hearing and decision be in public cutcherry or in some other place open to the public, and in the
presence of the parties or of their constituted agents or vakils if in attendance.
29.
Appeal to Board.
- First - The decisions of the Collectors on all such suits shall be appealable to the Board of Revenue or other authority
exercising the powers of that Board.
Procedure on such appeal. - The petition of appeal shall be presented either to the Collector or to the Board, at the
option of the party, [x x x x x]
[The words 'and shall be written on stamped paper of the value of two rupees' Repealed by Act 12 of 1876.]
the Board shall not be required in ordinary cases to go into a regular investigation of the merits, but shall be authorized
to dismiss the appeal without further investigation, in all cases in which, on a consideration of the final rubakari of the
Collector, they may not see ground to consider the decision of that officer to be unjust, erroneous or doubtful, or his
proceedings in the case irregular or imperfect.
When Board may direct new trial or interpose to correct neglect or delay. - [x x x x]
[The words 'as to limitation' which were repealed by Act 1 of 1903, are omitted.]
in all cases in which the Collector may dismiss the suits for non-attendance; or on some other ground of default, without
an investigation of the merits of the case, it shall be competent to the Board to direct a new trial, and, in cases in which
he may neglect or delay the investigation or decision of a suit without sufficient cause, it shall be competent to the Board
to interfere, and to cause the Collector to proceed upon the inquiry into and determination of it.
Pleadings required in appeals to Board. - Second. - No pleadings, except the petition of appeal, shall be required in such
appeals, nor shall any fees be taken by the [Board]
[For the present constitution and powers of the Board of Revenue, see B. and O. Act
1 of 1913
.]
on the exhibits originally filed, or on any further documents which the Board may think it necessary to call for.
No mukhtarnama required for same agents re-employed. - Third. - If the parties choose to employ in the pleadings of
such appeals the same agent or vakils who were previously employed by them in the original suits no further
mukhtarnama or vakalatnama shall be required of them.
Respondent to receive notice, but not required to appear. - Fourth - The respondent shall receive notice of the appeal,
but shall not be compelled to appear in person or by vakil; and the appeal shall be decided on the merits of the case,
notwithstanding his absence in the same manner as if he has attended.
Page 19/22
----- PAGE 20 -----
The Bengal Land-Revenue Settlement Regulation, 1822
Board's decision how far final. - Fifth. - The decision of the Board shall be final in as far as concerns the result of the
summary inquiry of the [Collector]
[For the exercise of functions of Collectors by other officers, see Section 35.]
[* * *]
[The words 'and shall be rendered in a persian rubakari, written on stamped paper of the value of two rupees, have been
omitted: the words 'Persian' was repealed by Act 16 of 1874, and the remaining words were repealed by Act 12 of 1876.]
.
But decision of Board and Collectors may be contested by regular suit. - Sixth. - Any person, however, dissatisfied with
the summary judgement of the Collector or the Board and desirous of a more full and formal decision shall be at liberty
to prefer a regular suit to try the merits of the cases in the Zila or other similar or superior Court in which it may be
cognizable.
In such cases the summary judgement of the Collector if not reversed or stayed by the Board shall be carried into effect
notwithstanding the institution of the regular suit.
30.
Parties having claims cognizable by Collectors and not wishing summary trial, may, in first instance bring regular suit.
- All persons having claims or complaints to prefer to the nature of those made cognizable by Collector under the
provisions of this Regulations and not wishing to avail themselves of the summary process authorized in that Court, shall
be at liberty to institute their claims or complaints, in the first instance, by a regular suit before the local Munsif, or in the
Zila [* * *]
[The words 'or city1, Repealed by Act 16 of 1874.]
Adalat [* * *]
[The words 'or Provincial Court of the Division' Repealed by by Act 16 of 1874.]
, according as the suit may be cognizable in these Courts respectively [* * *]
[The words 'under the General Regulations for the administration of civil justice,' Repealed by by Act 16 of 1874.]
.
31.
On appeal against Collector's decision his proceedings to be on record.
- First. - Whenever a regular suit may be instituted in a Civil Court with a view to set aside or alter a summary judgement
passed by a [Collector]
[For the exercise of functions of Collectors by other officers, see Section 35.]
the proceedings held on the summary inquiry shall be called for by precept from the Court, and filed on the record of the
case.
No such appeal cognizable by or referable to any Munsif. - Second. - [* * *]
[The words 'registers sadar amins and,' Repealed by Act 16 of 1814.]
Munsifs shall, in cases tried by them, be held and bound by the decisions passed, and records prepared, by [Collector]
[For the exercise of functions of Collectors by other officers, see Section 35.]
or other Revenue Officers under the provisions of this Regulation, unless the same shall have been rescinded or altered
by the [Board]
[For the present constitution and powers of the Board of Revenue, see B. and O. Act
1 of 1913
.]
or by the Zila or other similar or superior Court, on a regular suit.
32.
Periodical reports by Collectors to Board.
- The Collectors shall transmit to the [Board] such periodical reports of the cases decided by, or depending before, them
as the [Board]
[For the present constitution and powers of the Board of Revenue, see B. and O. Act
1 of 1913
.]
may direct, and the [Board]
[The words 'or Provincial Court of the Division' Repealed by by Act 16 of 1874.]
Page 20/22
----- PAGE 21 -----
The Bengal Land-Revenue Settlement Regulation, 1822
will also furnish [to the [State]
[Substituted by Act
1 of 1913
, Schedule II, 'for Boards'.]
Government] such abstracts of those report and such reports in the cases received and determined by them in appeal,
as the [State]
[Substituted by ALO for 'to Government'.]
Government shall from time to time require.
33.
Collectors authorized to refer certain cases to arbitration.
- First. - It shall be competent to Collectors or other officers exercising the powers of [Collectors]
[For the exercise of functions of Collectors by other officers, see Section 35.]
to refer to arbitration any disputes cognizable by them under the provisions of this Regulation, as well as any questions
or disputes of any kind respecting land of the tenures therein, or the reights dependent thereon, that may come before
them provided the parties consent to that mode of adjustment, and on award being made, to cause the same to be
executed.
Force of awards passed on such reference. - In referring cases to arbitration under the above provision, and in their
general proceedings relative to such suits, the [Collectors]
[For the exercise of functions of Collectors by other officers, see Section 35.]
[* * *]
[The words and figure 'shall be guided by the rules contained in Regulation 16,1793, and the other corresponding
enactment and in Regulation 6 of 1873, in so far as the same be applicable, and' Repealed by Act 16 of 1874.]
shall be competent to vest in the arbitration's the same powers and authority in regard to the summoning and
examination of witnesses, and the administration of [oaths]
[As to oaths, see Act 10 of 1878.]
and to enforce the orders passed by the arbitrators under such powers, in the same manner as the Court of judicature
are empowered to do; and all awards made on such references shall, when confirmed by the Collector, have the same
force and validity as a regular decree of the Adalat, and shall not be liable to be reversed or altered, unless the award
shall be open to impeachment on the ground of corruption or gross partiality or shall extend beyond the authority given
by the submission of the parties; and such ground of impeachment shall be established in a regular suit in the Zila, [* * *]
[The word 'City', Repealed by Act 1 of 1903.]
or other superior Courts wherein the case may be cognizable.
Matter of arbitrament to be distinctly specified in Collector's proceedings. - Second. - In referring any dispute to
arbitration, the Collector shall be careful to specify in his proceedings, and in the deed of arbitration to be executed by
parties, the precise matter submitted to the arbitrators; and if the award first made by the arbitrators shall not include all
the points submitted to them, or shall be otherwise incomplete; it shall be competent to the Collector again to refer the
matter to them, with directions to prefect their award.
Kanungos and tahsildars may be employed as arbitrators. - Third. - The pargana kanungos and tashildars may be
appointed arbitrators in any case referred to arbitration under the above Rules; anything in the existing Regulations
notwithstanding.
34.
Power of Collectors to interfere in cases of disputed possession.
-  First. - When a Collector or other Officer exercising any of the powers vested in Collectors by the rules of this
Regulation, relative to complaints of dispossession or disturbance of the possession of lands or premises, shall learn,
either by reference from the Magistrate, or by a report from any other public officer or otherwise, that any dispute exist
within the tract placed under his jurisdiction relative to any lands, premises, crops, orchards, pasture-grounds, fisheries,
wells, water-courses, tanks, reservoirs or the lake, likely to terminate in a breach of the peace, it shall and may be lawful
for the Collector or other officer aforesaid to require the contending parties to attend in person or by representative at a
stated time and place, after investigating the case in the presence of the parties or their representatives, or such of them
as may attend, or referring it to arbitration as above prescribed, to decide the case in the same manner as if it had been
brought before him by the complaint of one of the parties;
Page 21/22
----- PAGE 22 -----
The Bengal Land-Revenue Settlement Regulation, 1822
and to give possession to one of the contending parties. - Provided also that, if the fact of previous lawful possession
cannot be ascertained, it shall be competent to the Collector, subject to the orders and direction of the Board to decide
on the question of right, and to give possession to one of the contending parties, leaving the other party to contest the
decision by a regular suit in Court; but no such decision shall be passed by any Collector until he shall have instituted a
careful inquiry into the fact of possession, and the Board shall be careful to see that this restriction is observed.
Collector may attach disputed lands, etc. - Provided further that in such cases it shall be competent to the Collector to
attach the disputed lands, premises, etc., aforesaid, and to appoint an officer to the management of the same, retaining
in deposit the rents and produce or such portion thereof as may remain after discharging any public revenue
demandable therefrom, with the charges of management, until one of the contending parties shall be placed in
possession.
Reference of disputes by Magistrates to Collector. - Second. - Whenever any Magistrate or Joint Magistrate shall have
before them any suit, complaint to information relative to any dispute regarding lands premises, crops, water-course or
the like, which may appear likely to terminate in a breach of the peace, or which it may otherwise be desirable to bring to
an immediate decision, it shall be the duty of such Magistrate or Joint Magistrate, in case in which the Collector shall be
vested with the cognizance of such actions, to certify the case to that officer, and the Collector will then forthwith
proceed to investigate and determine the case under the rules above prescribed:
Provided also that, in all cases of forcible dispossession or forcible disturbance of possession, the Collector shall
invariably transmit to the Magistrate or Joint Magistrate a copy of the first proceeding held by him in the case and also a
copy of the rubakari containing his final award.
Collector to encourage arbitration. - Third. - The Collector shall in all such cases use every proper means for inducing
the parties to refer their disputes to arbitration, in like manner as the Diwani Courts are directed to do.
35.
"Board of Revenue".
- Whenever the term "Board of Revenue" [* * *]
[The word 'or Board of Commissioners' repealed by Act 1 of 1903.]
may occur in this or any other Regulation, the same shall be held and considered to apply to any Board Committee or
Commission, and to any member of such Board, committee or commission, that may be vested by the [State]
[Substituted by ALO.]
Government with the powers and authority of the Board of Revenue, save and except in so far as may be otherwise
specifically declared and provided.
Rules regarding Collectors to apply to Officer exercising authority of Collector - In like manner, all Rules in this or any
other Regulation, whereby any duties or powers may be prescribed for, or vested in, Collectors shall beheld and
considered to be equally applicable to any officer exercising the authority of Collector under the orders or with the
sanction of the [State]
[Substituted by ALO.]
Government.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 22/22