
----- PAGE 1 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
Management and Working of the Forests
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/176958798/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
41
]
State of Bihar - Act
Management and Working of the Forests
BIHAR
India
Management and Working of the Forests
Rule MANAGEMENT-AND-WORKING-OF-THE-FORESTS of 1887
Published on 27 April 1887
Commenced on 27 April 1887
[This is the version of this document from 27 April 1887.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Management and Working of the Forests
Chapter-1 Administrative Rules and Instructions
1.
Classification of forests in Bihar.
- The forests in Bihar are classified as follows: -
A. - Under the Indian Forest Act, 1927.
1. [ Reserved Forests]
[1799 Sq. Miles]
...Sq. miles.
2. [ Protected Forests]
[1220 Sq. Miles.]
Page 1/89
----- PAGE 2 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
...Sq. miles.
(a) Demarcated Protected Forests
...Sq. miles.
(b) Undemarcated Protected Forests
...Sq. miles.
B. - Under the Bihar Private Forest Act.
1. Private Protected Forest
...Sq. miles.
C. -[Unclassed Forests]
[Sq. Miles Please Note all these figures are old data as provided in Government Publication Bihar & Orissa Forest
Manual. Now a days, it is measured in Sq. Kilometers. Latest area may be different.]
, which do not fall under any of the above categories.
Note. - For definition of each type of forests, see the Indian Forest Act, 1927.
2.
Forest settlements.
- The following procedure is prescribed for settlement of forests areas:-
Follows memorandum by the Inspector-General of Forests, published in Government of India Circular No. 5-F, dated the
27th April, 1887.
1. Under Section 3 of the Indian Forest Act (XVI of 1927) it rests with State Government to decide what forests and
waste lands, being the property of the State, or over which the State has proprietary rights, or to the whole or any part of
the forest-produce of which the State is entitled, should be constituted a Reserved Forest. There may be forests and
wastes so situated as to make it impolitic to proceed with their settlement; others, again, may be burdened to such an
extent by adverse rights of users that the benefits accruing to the State would not compensate for the expensive
settlement prescribed by the Forest Act.
But, as a rule, it may be laid down that it is the duty of Government to secure the best possible legal title (as prescribed
by the Forest Act), to the property, or to such share as it owns, in all forests and waste lands, defined in Section 3 of the
Act. Having this in view, District Officers should be instructed to initiate proposals for the settlement of all forest and
waste lands against the reservation of which, in the opinion of the State Government, no forcible reasons exist.
These proposals by the District Officers must, naturally, be of a general character only. They will simply specify the limits
of the land in question in such a way as to fix its situation and to be readily intelligible to interested parties; they should
not enter into any discussions likely to affect the future settlement, and render ineffective the provisions of Section 5 of
the Act.
2. Whenever a State Government is satisfied that no special reasons exist why land, fulfilling the description in Section 3
of the Act, should not be constituted a Reserve, the notification prescribed in Section 4 should issue, and a Forest
Settlement Officer be appointed.
3.
The procedure of a Forest Settlement Officer may be considered under three separate heads viz: -
(1)
The procedure previous to the adjudication of claims;
(2)
The adjudication as a Civil Court;
(3)
The action taken after the adjudication of claims.
4.
Under (1) the Forest Settlement Officer is required to -
(a)
specify the limits of the proposed forest*;
(b)
explain the consequences which will ensue on the reservation of the forest;
(c)
fix a period during which claims may be preferred either in writing or in person.
Page 2/89
----- PAGE 3 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
*A forest tract proposed to be reserved frequently includes village land or lands the ownership of which is at least
questionable, and it has been considered inconsistent with Section 5 of the Act to permit new clearings in such land.
This circumstance may result in hardships or militate against reservation. The difficulty can be overcome by excluding
these lands by special mention, from the revisions of the preliminary Notifications.
5.
Under (2) the Forest Settlement Officer, acting as a Civil Court, is required to record the substance of all statements
regarding claims to rights invited under Section 6. He is further required to make a similar record of any rights of which
the existence is ascertained, whether from previous records or by local inquiry.
Claims can be divided into three classes-
1. Claims to a right in, or over land.
2. Claims to forest produce, including pasture.
3. Claims to right of way or water course.
With respect to class (3) the Forest Settlement Officer has only to satisfy himself of the existence of the ways or
water-courses in question and to record them as such. Any action in regard to them is Ruled by Section 25 of the Act.
Referring to classes (1) and (2) the Forest Settlement Officer's first duty is to adjudicate on the evidence and facts
before him, to decide whether the rights claimed are legally established or not, and to pass an order admitting or
rejecting them accordingly in whole or in part. It is clearly the intention of the Act to settle these claims on their legal
merits and not with reference to any special objects which were had in view when it was proposed to constitute the
forest a Reserve. Claims must be admitted or rejected within the limits to which the right has been substantiated. State
Government should, as a rule, appoint some person, under Section 19 (who may most suitably be the Local Forest
Officer) to attend at the enquiry, plead, and act on behalf of the State before the Forest Settlement Officer. This person
will have a proper legal standing, be able to cross examine witnesses who support claims, produce evidence to rebut
claims, comment on any documents or evidence; and if he desires to prefer an appeal against any decision, the Forest
Settlement Officer, should give him a certified copy of such decision. It is of vital importance that only such rights should
be admitted as are legally proved to exist, and then only to the extent proved.
There is nothing in the Forest Act that justifies the Forest Settlement Officer in providing for the prospective wants of
non-existing settlers, or for a future and possibly more numerous generation; nothing that permits the concession, by a
Forest Settlement Officer, of more extensive rights than those which he finds to exist at the time of settlement. The rights
claimed must be actually existing rights, vested in an individual or person, or in a definite body of persons, such as for
instance, a number of co-owners, or a village community. They may be rights in grass, unconnected with the ownership
of immovable property (houses or land) or they may be rights attached to the ownership of such property. They may be
rights enduring only for a certain period, or for the life of the person in whom they are vested, or they may be rights
which will pass to the heirs of that person, or pass in perpetuity with the property to which they are attached. But they
must be existing and vested in some person, or body of persons, who can claim them at the time of settlement.
If the Forest Settlement Officer is permitted to provide for the indefinite prospective wants of an indefinite prospective
number of right-holders, he may be providing for the gradual absorption and final extinction of the actually existing rights
of the State.
It is conceivable that a claimant might establish a right of such a nature that it would possibly, in course of time, entitle
him to larger benefits from forest than he was entitled to at the time of settlement. For instance, he might show that he
was entitled to pasture for all cattle employed by him in the cultivation of his land, and he might be in possession of
extensive waste land, which he was gradually bringing under cultivation a process which of necessity would tend to
increase the number of his cattle. Here the Forest Settlement Officer though dealing only with "actually existing rights",
would also have to take into account "prospective wants".
In such a case, which could probably only arise when the right in question had been specially conferred by the terms of
a former grant, revenue settlement, or sanad, it would seem reasonable to admit the same within a maximum, which
should be determined with reference to the rights actually enjoyed by the claimant at the time of making the record, and
with due regard to the potential capabilities of the forest.
A prescriptive right, to exist at all, must be proved to have been regularly exercised in the past; and in no case can a
prescriptive right over any forest be held to have been acquired by the continuous purchase of its produce from the
owner, the element of adverse enjoyment and of enjoyment as of right on which prescription rests being wholly wanting.
In regard to rights of class (1), admitted in whole or in part, three courses are open to the Forest Settlement Officer, and
Page 3/89
----- PAGE 4 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
these are clearly stated in Section 11 of the Act.
With regard to rights of class (2) similarly dealt with under Section 12, the Forest Settlement Officer is to record, in the
manner prescribed in Section 13 his decision in all cases, whether in favour of the claimant or otherwise; and it would
probably be found convenient if the Settlement Officer briefly entered an epitome of the grounds for his decision, the
evidence and finding being, as a matter of course, duly recorded at length in the Judicial proceedings. Providing for this
and other details of procedure within the provisions of the Act, as explained in this Memorandum, the State
Governments may also make Rules under Section 76(d) of the Act, similar to those issued by the Government of
Madras under Section 63(b) of Act V of 1882.
Section 14 of the Act provides for a complete record of the extent of such rights as have been admitted, and of the limits
within which claims have been established. The preparation of this record brings to a close the duties of the Forest
Settlement Officer when proceeding as a Civil Court.
6.
The Forest Settlement Officer should now proceed, with due regard for the maintenance of the forest, to arrange for the
continued exercise of the rights to the extent admitted.
Under Section 15 he is at liberty to adopt one of three courses:-
(a)
Transfer the burden of the right to some other conveniently situated and available forest.
(b)
Alter the proposed boundaries, so as to exclude an area of forest sufficient for the exercise of the rights admitted and
convenient for the purpose.
(c)
Record an order continuing the exercise of the right to the extent admitted at such seasons in such portions of the forest,
under such rules as may from time to time be prescribed by the State Government.
It is evident that this Section is only intended to regulate the legally admitted rights, and gives no power to alter or
extend such rights.
If the Settlement Officer acts under (a) or (b), the Section explains clearly enough what course he should follow.
Under (c), the Forest Settlement Officer must record an order declaring that the claimants of the admitted rights may
continue to exercise the rights to the extent admitted; (a) at such seasons; (b) within such portions of the proposed
forest; and (c) subject to such Rules as may, from time to time, be prescribed by the State Government.
The Rules that are here referred to must not substantially detract from the rights of either the claimant or the State. Such
Rules are not intended to define the legal status of rights claimed, but only to control the exercise of rights admitted for
the power to make such Rules is limited, and does not extend to fixing the number of cattle which a right-holder may
send into the forest, or the amount of produce he may extract. An order admitting a claim to rights of pasture or forest
produce cannot, therefore, be limited or extended by any declaration in Rules framed under Section 15(c) of the Forest
Act.
The Rules might be such as to require, e.g., cattle to be marked, to wear bells, or produce to be removed by certain
roads.
In cases where the right admitted and recorded is of such a nature, that it would, in course of time, entitle the
right-holder to larger benefits from the forest than he enjoyed at the time of settlement, a maximum should be fixed in
such a way as to render substantial justice to the claimants and to the State, having due regard for the well-being of the
forest.
For Example for a few years immediately, preceding settlement, the cattle of a village may have been considerably
reduced by disease or other causes. It is, in this case, obviously desirable to fix a maximum number of cattle in excess
of what exist. Similarly, a village, owing to dacoities has been reduced by the emigration of some of its inhabitants who,
in more settled times, may be expected to return. In such a case it may be necessary to fix the bamboos, etc. at a
quantity in excess of actual present requirements.
Section 16 provides that if a Reserved Forest cannot be maintained as a forest side by side with the continued exercise
of such rights as have been admitted over it, the For est Settlement Officer may commute such rights as render a proper
treatment of the forest impossible, either by cash payment or by the grant of land, or in such other way as he thinks fit.
The State Government may make Rules in reference to this question which may prescribe the basis upon which money
compensation may be assessed, or land be given in exchange (Madras Government Notification G.O. No. 970, dated
Page 4/89
----- PAGE 5 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
27th August, 1884, paragraphs 12 and 13).
7.
It is, without doubt desirable that a professional Forest Officer should be associated with the Forest Settlement Officer to
assist and advice as to the action the latter may wish to take under Sections 15 and 16. The question whether a forest
can be maintained or not under exercise of certain rights, and whether Section 15 or Section 16 is applicable to the case
in point, is one demanding practical experience and professional knowledge and the advice of the Forest Officer,
besides being useful as a means of pointing out what it is practicable to effect with due regard to the maintenance of the
forest should also prove of material assistance in arranging for a settlement of all claims on a simple and stable basis.
The Forest Officer may be usefully consulted in the final selection of boundaries.
8.
This brings the work of the Forest Settlement Officer under the Act to a conclusion, and, subject to any orders passed on
appeal, secures, once for all, the sound legal status of the Reserved Forest in question.
9.
The management of the forest, with the legal obligations imposed at the time of settlement as a first charge upon it,
should now be left to the provisions of a Working Plan, drawn up by a professional Forest Officer after full examination of
the capabilities of the forest and the demands, local or other, which it can supply, and with careful regard to the orders
and Rules of the State Government under Section 15, clause (C).
10.
Appellate Courts can only decide on the same lines as those upon which the Forest Settlement Officer had originally
passed judgement and the State Government, when revising such procedure under Section 18 should be guided by the
same principles.
11.
[(1) At this stage, it becomes the duty of the State Government to publish the final notification declaring the forest to the
reserved. The limits of the reserved forests should be described in the final notification on the following lines-
(a)
Where the boundaries are described in separate sheets of 16" = 1 mile cadastral survey maps prepared by the Survey
and Settlement Department.
"The limits of the reserved forest are the lines marked in green on a copy of each of the 16"=1 mile cadastral maps of
the villages specified below, which has been signed by the Deputy Commissioner/Collector of the....... district and
deposited in his record room".
(b)
Where a special map of the reserved forest on the scale of 16" = 1 mile has been prepared under the orders of the
Deputy Director of Surveys, Bihar-
"The limits of the reserved forest are the lines marked on a copy of the special map on the scale of 16" = 1 mile
prepared under the orders of the Deputy Director of Surveys, Bihar, which has been signed by the Deputy
Commissioner/Collector of the district and deposited in the record room.
The special map referred to in clause (b) above should show such details of village land reproduced from the cadastral
survey map as are necessary for easy check of the forest boundaries.]
(2)
[Government of Bihar Revenue Department letter No. 3304-R-IIIF-205 dated 30.7.1937and 644-R-IIIF-143-37 dated
22-12-1937]. - The boundary according to the map is the authoritative boundary and great care must be taken by the
Forest Settlement Officer to see that the boundary on the ground agrees accurately with the map. The lines are drawn
on the map by him as provided in Rule 62(c) of the Forest Manual and he should see that the demarcation on the
ground agrees with the map. If any changes are ordered in appeal the Forest Settlement Officer should see that the
changes ordered are made in the map in the lines demarcated on the ground. A certified copy of the map should be kept
in the custody of Government and another such copy should be handed over to the Forest Officer after the issue of the
notification under Section 20. The Deputy Commissioner/Collector should sign the following certificate on each sheet of
the copies of the maps deposited in his record room.
"Certified that the green lines mark the boundaries of the forest and waste lands declared under Notification No of the to
be reserved forests".
(3)
Page 5/89
----- PAGE 6 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
Where No 16" cadastral map of the area exists a map on that scale should be prepared by the Forest Settlement Officer
as provided under Rule 62(c) of the Forest Manual, and he should see that the demarcation on the ground agrees with
the map as far as possible. But in view of the possible inaccuracy of such a map the notification should in such cases be
according to the demarcation on the ground and not according to the map. Where the boundary follows natural features,
such as streams, hill ridges, etc., such natural features should be referred to in the description of the boundary. Where
there is no such natural feature on the boundary it should be described by numbered pillars, and care should be taken at
the time of demarcation that the position of such numbered pillars is clearly shown on the ground. The distance between
pillars should be measured with accuracy and given in the notification.
(4)
As soon as the date mentioned in the notification is past the Forest Settlement Officer's duty ceases and the Forest
Officer should proceed at once to improve the demarcation of the boundary on the ground where necessary according to
the Rules of the Forest Department.
12.
Under Section 22, the State Government may, within five years, revise any arrangement, rescind or modify any order,
under Sections 15, and 18 including any orders of revision passed by them under the latter Section, provided such
arrangements or orders are replaced by some other of the proceedings possible under Sections 25 or 26. No new rights
can be admitted under this Section.
13.
Under Section 23 no right of any description can be acquired in or over a Reserved Forest, except by succession or
under a grant or contract in writing made by or on behalf of the Government, or of some person in whom such right was
vested when the notification under Section 20 was issued. (Approved in Government Order No. 12203-III-F-66-R. dated
2.11.1933).
3. Further instructions regarding Forest settlements.
- To ensure correct procedure in the matter of Forest Settlement, the following further instructions have been approved
by the State Government:-
(a)
With reference to the provisions of Section 6 of the Forest Act (XVI of 1927), the Forest Settlement Officer should take
steps for the publication of a proclamation in Form No. 39. A translation in the vernacular of the proclamation as filled up
for each proposed reserve should be printed for issue. The Forest Settlement Officer is responsible for the sufficiency of
the publication of the proclamation. With this object he should consult the Collector in any case in which he is in doubt
as to the method or places of publication. The action taken by the Forest Settlement Officer in regard to the publication
of the proclamation must be fully recorded in his proceedings.
(b)
In accordance with Section 7 of the Forest Act (XVI of 1927), the Forest Settlement Officer should record all claims
made and all rights ascertained. The procedure differs in the case of claims relating to the privilege of practising, shifting
cultivation and other claims which relate to rights. Claims to the privilege of practising shifting cultivation and orders
passed thereon should be recorded in Form No. 40 which will from a complete record of the proceedings. The claims to
rights and orders passed thereon should be recorded in Form No. 41, which provides for a concise record of the
proceedings under the settlement and appeal.
(c)
The Forest Settlement Officer, in order to complete his proceedings has to prepare a short report and a map of the
proposed reserved forest showing the original boundaries and the modifications made to them (if any) during the
settlement. He should also prepare a draft notification in Form No. 42 for publication under Section 20 the Forest Act
(XVI of 1927).
(d)
[All forest settlement orders, before they are issued be submitted in draft by the Forest Settlement Officer to Government
through the Collector and Commissioner or, if the Collector is the person appointed to hear appeals under Section 17 of
the Forest Act (XVI of 1927), though the Commissioner direct, with such remarks as the Chief Conservator of Forest
may have to make on the point, whether the rights proposed are excessive or whether continued existence of the full
rights declared will be deleterious to the continued existence of the forest. These orders will be returned to the Forest
Settlement Officer through the channel in which they were received with such remarks as the Government may have to
Page 6/89
----- PAGE 7 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
make for his consideration.]
[Substituted vide C.S. No. 14, dated 9.7.1938.]
.
(e)
The following papers will be forwarded by the Forest Settlement officer to the Officer appointed to hear appeals:-
(i)
A copy of the Notification under Section 4 of the Forest Act (XVI of 1927)
(ii)
A copy of the proclamation under Section 6 of the Forest Act, 1927, in Form No. 39 with a record of manner in which it
was published.
(iii)
A record of claims and the manner in which they have been dealt with in Form Nos. 40 and 41.
(iv)
A map of the proposed reserve showing the boundary of the area notified under Section 4 of the Forest Act (XVI of
1927) (in red) and the boundary of the area which is finally selected for reservation (in green).
(v)
A draft Notification for publication under Section 20 of the Forest Act, 1927, in Form No. 42.
(vi)
The Collector's and Divisional Forest Officer's note.
(vi)
The Forest Settlement Officer's report.
(f)
The Appellate Officer will retain the papers until the period of appeal is over; he will fill in columns 7 and 8 of Form No.
41 to show what appeals (if any) were made, and how they were disposed of; and he will then forward them through the
Collector, Commissioner, and the Chief Conservator of Forests to the State Government.
(g)
The proceedings of the Forest Settlement Officer, consisting of parts (i) to (vii) detailed in paragraph (e) above will be
printed and copies supplied to the local officers.
4. Amended description of boundaries.
- Cases arise in which it may be desirable to publish, by means of a fresh notification, amended descriptions of the
boundaries of forest reserves already notified under Section 20 of the Indian Forest Act (XVI of 1927) or under other
forest enactments. It has been ascertained that there is no legal objection to this course, if the fresh notification merely
provides for the substitution of a more exact and definite description of the boundaries for that which was originally
notified, and which, though purporting to describe the boundaries as they existed at the time has subsequently become
incorrect or proved to be open to misconstruction. The appended form of notification is considered suitable for such
cases, and may be employed whenever necessary. This procedure must not be held to extend to any such alteration of
the boundaries on the ground as would involve either the inclusion of new areas or the exclusion of any lands which
have been declared by the previous notification to be Reserved Forest. Such changes require either a new settlement of
the additions it is proposed to make, or, in the case of disafforestation, the previous [sanction of the Government of
India]
[The sanction of the Government of India is not necessary now (vide Section 3 of the Indian Forests Act, 1927), and the
procedure indicated in Rule 65 (Government Publication Here R-6 below should be followed.]
.
5. Modifications of boundaries.
- Copies of all Notifications issued by State Governments constituting or modifying the boundaries of Reserved and
Protected Forests, together with indicative tracings or sketch maps, should be supplied direct as soon as they are issued
to the Deputy Director of Surveys, Gulzarbagh, for the purpose of enabling that officer to make the requisite additions or
alterations in the corresponding maps in his office.
The boundaries of all forests whose limits have been decided shall be demarcated on the ground by marks which should
be easily recognised. The marks used for the purpose shall ordinarily consist of-
(a)
Page 7/89
----- PAGE 8 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
Pillars-According to local conditions there may be-(i) Earthen with soded grass (ii) Stone cairns (iii) Loose stone with
timber (iv) Concrete pillars. All pillars should bear a number as shown in the demarcated map..
(b)
Agave planting-Agave should be planted on both sides of the pillar along the boundary line indicating the direction.
(c)
Cleared lines-A belt of land as prescribed in working plan will be kept cleared of all vegetative growth along the
boundary line.
(1)
(a)
The Forest guard incharge of the sub-beat will be responsible for maintenance and protection of all the boundary marks
in the forests of his sub-beat.
(b)
The Forest Guard shall specially inspect each forest boundary mark in his sub-beat at least once in every three months,
and a record of his inspection is to be entered in his diary when it may occur.
(2)
(a)
The Beat Officer will be responsible for the maintenance and protection of the boundary marks in the forests of his beat.
He will see that they are maintained in proper form, the numbers are freshened and that required measure for agave
planting upon the forest boundaries is undertaken and performed.
(b)
The Beat Officer should inspect the boundary mark in the forest of his Beat once every year and will make a record of
every inspection made in his diary when it may occur and also submit a special report to the Divisional Forest Officer
upon the state and condition of the boundary marks, forest boundaries, agave planting etc. as soon as he may have
completed the inspection of the boundaries of any forest village or forest block.
(3)
The Range Officer will, specially inspect and report upon the state and condition of the forest boundaries and forest
boundary marks of not less than 5 km. of forest boundary in every sub-beat in his range. A record of inspection made
will be entered in his diary when they may occur.
Every forest shall be managed according to a working plan.
The procedure with regard to the preparation and revision of working plans is dealt within the Code of working plan
procedure in Bihar and Orissa. The procedure with regard to the exchange of working plans between States and the
instructions for writing up control forms and compartment history forms are also embodied in the Code.
6. Disafforestation.
- In submitting proposals for disafforestation to the State Government the proposals should be in the following form and
should be accompanied by a map and the recommendations of the Revenue and Forest Authorities:-
6A.
[ Instructions in connection with the Indian Forest (B. & O. Amendment) Act, 1935 regarding suspension of rights of
pasture or to forest produce.
[Inserted vide C.S. No. 15 dated 9.7.1938.]
- The following instruction are issued in connection with sub-section (3) of Section 26 and sub-section (2) of Section 33
of the Indian Forest Act, 1927, as Amended by the Bihar and Orissa Amendment Act of 1935.
(a)
The District Officer should cause to be distributed to each village in which the tenants have any right in reserved or
protected forests a copy of the following notice, in Hindi:-
"It has come to the notice of the Government that in some reserved and protected forest theft of forest produce and illicit
felling of trees is going on to such an extent that it is becoming difficult to save those forests from destruction. It has,
therefore, been found necessary to amend the law to empower Government to check such theft. In future, if theft of
forest produce occurs within a reserved or protected forest and if such theft seems to be likely to imperil the future yield
of the forest, Government may order that all rights to pasture or to forest produce in that forest shall be suspended for a
period up to 4 years. It is the duty of the villagers of.... to do what they can to prevent such thefts and to report to the
authorities any case of theft which may come to their notice. If this is done, it is hoped that it will never become
Page 8/89
----- PAGE 9 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
necessary to take the step of suspending rights in the forest".
(b)
The Divisional Forest Officer will carry out a special annual inspection of one-fifth of the total area of forest in each felling
series and will send a written report to the District Officer, with a copy to the Conservator of Forests, stating the extent to
which in his opinion theft of forest produce has gone on. He should state also the number of cases of theft by-
(i)
right-holders, and
(ii)
non-right holders, in the felling series concerned reported during the year preceding his inspection. If the Divisional
Forest Officer is of opinion that theft has been going on in a considerable scale, he should support his opinion by
reference to the observations made by him on the spot. If the Divisional Forest Officer is of opinion that rights should be
suspended, he should give full reasons for that opinion.
(c)
On receipt of a copy of a report from the Divisional Forest Officer recommending that rights should be suspended, the
Conservator of Forests will send his opinion on the recommendation to the District Officer.
(d)
If the District Officer, after considering the report of the Divisional Forest Officer is of opinion that theft of forest produce
has been going on in a considerable scale, he may issue a warning to the right-holders of the forest concerned.
(e)
On receipt of a recommendation of the Divisional Forest Officer that rights in a forest be suspended and of the opinion of
the Conservator of Forests on that recommendation, the District Officer should hold or cause the Subdivisional Officer to
hold a local enquiry into the matter. After considering the results of that enquiry the District Officer should submit his
report and recommendation to the Commissioner, who should forward it to the State Government with his
recommendations. [Government of the Bihar Revenue Department Letter No. 3690- III-132-R. dated - 9-4-1936.]
7. Registration of Property marks.
- [Notification No. 1592 dated the 20th March, 1906]-The following Rules are prescribed for the registration of property
marks, in the Singhbhum district under Section 41 of India Forest Act (XVI of 1927).
1. Any person who desires to register a property mark to be placed on timber which he intends to transport in or through
the Kolhan or Porahat Estate, Singhbhum district, may apply in writing to the Forest Officer-in-charge of the Saranda, or
Kolhan, or Porahat or Chaibasa Forest Division, submitting with his application -
(i)
a copy and description of the mark which he wishes to be registered;
(ii)
a statement of the period for which he wishes the mark to be registered; and
(iii)
the amount of the fee due under these Rules for registration.
2. Every registration of a property mark by the Forest Officer shall hold good for one or for three years from the 1st July
preceding the date of registration, whichever the applicant may desire, and the fee payable by him shall be Rs. 2 for
each registration for one year and Rs. 4 for each registration for three years. Double fees shall be charged for any
additional property mark in excess of the first one registered in the name of an applicant.
3. The Forest Officer may refuse to register any mark -
(a)
which he considers resembles too closely any Government property mark or any mark he has previously registered in
favour of another person; or
(b)
if, he is of opinion that the applicant does not possess and is unlikely to obtain possession of timber requiring to be
marked with a property mark, or
(c)
if, on account of a previous conviction of the applicant of any serious forest offence, or for any other reason which
seems to him sufficient, he is of opinion that the applicant cannot be trusted with a registered property mark; or
(d)
Page 9/89
----- PAGE 10 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
if, he has already registered one or more property marks in the applicant's favour, and is of opinion that the latter has not
shown sufficient cause for the registration of an additional mark.
4. An appeal shall lie from any order by the Forest Officer refusing to register a mark to the Conservator of Forests,
Bihar and, if the applicant owns timber outside the boundaries of the Kolhan and Porahat Estates and desires to
transport it through either or both of these estates, from any such order passed on appeal by the Conservator of Forests
to the Commissioner of the Chota Nagpur Division.
Form of Certificate of Registration of a Property Mark in the Singhbhum District
Certificate of registration of a property mark for use in Singhbhum district.
Person in whose favour the mark is registered.
Date of registration.
Date upto which registration will hold good.
Registration fees received, (counterfoil)
Copy of mark.
Signature of the Forest Officer.
8. Transit of timber etc.-B. & O. Government Notification No. 8454-R-III-F-201 dated 24.12.1918.
- The following Rules under Section 41 of the Indian Forest Act (XVI of 1927), for the transit of timber, firewood and
sabai grass in and through the Singhbhum district, are laid down:-
I. In these Rules "Timber" includes all pieces of wood which being sawn or squared exceed six feet in length and nine
square inches sectional area or being in the log exceed six feet in length and four and a half feet in girth at the large
end.
"The Forest Officer" means the Forest Officer-in-charge of the Saranda or Kolhan or Porahat of Chaibasa Division.
"Sabai grass" includes string or rope made from Sabai grass.
II. No timber shall be imported into the tracts respectively called the Kolhan Estate and the Porahat Estate situated in
Singhbum district from any place outside the said tracts, without a written permit previously obtained from the Forest
Officer showing:-
(a)
the name or designation of the owner of the timber;
(b)
the descriptions and amounts of timber which may be imported;
(c)
the property mark or marks which each piece of timber must bear;
(d)
the road or roads by which the timber must be transported and its destination or destinations; and
(e)
the period during which the permit holds good.
III. No piece of timber shall be imported into the said tracts, or removed from any reserved forest in the said tract or
transported from any other part of the said tracts to any railway station on the Bengal Nagpur line, or to the towns of
Chaibasa or Chakradharpur unless it bears a property mark which has been registered by the Forest Officer.
IV. Nothing in Rules II and III shall apply to timber imported into the tracts or places therein mentioned by bona fide
raiyats of the same for their own use; but not for sale or barter.
V. Every person transporting timber cut in any forest or other land in the Kolhan Estate, or any Reserved or Protected
forest in the Porahat Estate to any railway station or town referred to in Rule III shall previously obtain, and shall present
for examination on demand by any Forest Officer or Police Officer, a permit signed by the Forest Officer or any other
Forest Officer authorised by the Forest Officer in this behalf showing-
(a)
the name of the owner of the timber;
(b)
the number of dimensions of the pieces of timber of which the transport is permitted;
(c)
the mark or marks to be borne by each piece of timber;
(d)
Page 10/89
----- PAGE 11 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
the railway station or town to which the timber must be transported; and
(e)
the date upto which transport is permitted.
VI. Every person transporting timber under cover of a permit granted under Rule V shall, on arrival at the destination
mentioned in his permit, present the timber for examination at the forest checking station established by the Forest
Officer and shall present the permit authorizing its transport at the said checking Station on or before the date of expiry
of the permit.
VII. No person shall transport firewood, charcoal, bamboos or sabai grass cut or manufactured in any part of the Kolhan
Estate or in any Reserved or Protected Forest in the Porahat Estate, to the town of Chaibassa or Chakradharpur without
a permit issued by a forest employee authorised by the Forest Officer to issue such permits showing:-
(a)
the kind and amount of firewood, charcoal, bamboos or sabai grass he is authorised to transport; and
(b)
the date upto which the permit holds good and before entering either of the said towns such person shall proceed to one
or other of the forest checking stations established by the Forest Officer and present the firewood, charcoal, bamboos or
sabai grass and the permit to the officer-in-charge of such checking station for examination.
VIII. Any person who in contravention of these Rules or of the conditions of any permit issued thereunder:-
(a)
imports or transports timber;
(b)
transports firewood, charcoal, bamboos or sabai grass; or
(c)
fails or refuses to present his permit or timber in the manners required by these Rules, shall be punished with simple
imprisonment for a term which may extend to one month or with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees or with
both.
The Governor is further pleased to direct in exercise of the power conferred by Section 41 of the same Act that Rules V
and VI of the abovementioned Rules do not apply to timber for the checking of which special arrangements are made
and embodied in a lease executed by a lessee.
Marking & Checking of Timber Rules
9. Marking and checking of timber-(Notification No. 4922-III-F-19-R dated 5.5.1923).
- The following Rules are prescribed under Section 41 of the Indian Forest Act (XVI of 1927) for the marking and
checking of timber exported from the forests of the Saranda, Kolhan and Porahat Divisions.
Definition. - In these Rules-
(a)
the expression "registered property mark" means a property mark registered under the Rules published in Notification
No. 1592-For., dated the 20th March, 1906 and
(b)
the word "purchaser" means a purchaser of timber for export from a coupe and includes an agent of such purchaser.
1. Route for the export of timber. - The route for the export of timber from a coupe shall be that laid down from time to
time by the Divisional Forest Officer under whose management and control such coupe is.
2. Export and check depot. - On every route for the export of timber from a coupe there shall be established a depot
(hereinafter called the export depot) for the measurement of such timber at a place as near to the coupe as may, in the
opinion of the Divisional Forest Officer, be convenient and another depot (hereinafter called "the check depot") for the
checking of the measurements made at the export depot.
3. Marking of timbers. - The purchaser shall cause to be clearly marked on both ends of each piece of timber his
registered property mark and the number of the coupe from which such timber has been extracted. No purchaser shall
take, nor shall the officer-in-charge of the export depot (hereinafter called "the export Muharrir") allow to pass, through
the export depot, any timber which is not marked in the manner herein prescribed. The said officer shall cause to be
unloaded any timber which is not so marked or on which the marks are not visible from the outside. He shall detain all
un-marked timber and shall make a report thereof to the Range Officer.
4. Payment of royalties. - The export Muharrir shall not allow any timber to pass through the depot unless and shall
Page 11/89
----- PAGE 12 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
detain such timber until, it has been shown to his satisfaction that all royalties due in respect thereof have been paid.
5. Issue of permits. - The export Muharrir shall, before allowing any timber to pass the export depot, make out for each
cart a permit in triplicate (in Form A). He shall retain the original and give the two copies of the permit to the carter. He
shall record accurately the measurements of all timber and impress the same with his export hammer before allowing it
to pass the export depot.
6. Checking of timber at the check depot. - On the arrival of a cart of timber at the check depot, the Officer-in-Charge of
the depot (hereinafter called "the check Muharrir"). shall check the timber with the duplicate copies of the permits issued
by the export Muharrir. If he detects any differences in the measurements he shall enter them on the back of both copies
of the permits without altering the figures on the face of the permits.
He shall detain any timber found in excess of the number entered on the permits as well as any un-marked timber and
timber not bearing the marks prescribed in Rules 3 and 5 and shall enter particulars thereof on the backs of both of the
copies of the permits and shall make a report thereof to the Range Officer. The check Muharrir shall then impress his
check hammer on each piece of timber, except any timber he may have detained, and allow the cart to proceed. He
shall keep one copy of the permit and return the other without unnecessary delay to the carter.
7. Loading of timber on carts. - The purchaser shall as far as possible load the timber on carts in such a way that it can
be measured and checked without being unloaded. If it is not possible to measure the timber in the cart the carter shall
on demand by the export or check Muharrir arrange to have the cart unloaded.
8. No timber shall be passed through the export depot or check depot after sunset and before sunrise.
Form A
Forest Department, Bihar
Range
Block
Book No.
Name of Purchaser
Permit No.
Name of Carter
Compartment
No. of Pieces
Dimensions
Cubical Contents
Rate
Amount
Remarks
Amount at Credit
Rs.
P.
TotalCredit balance
CheckMuharrir
Purchaser or Agent
Date of checking
ExportMuharrir
Date..........
9A.
[
[Added vide C.S. No. 85. dated 10.1.1940.]
(1)
in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 45 of the Indian Forest Act, 1927 (Act XVI of 1927). The Governor of
Bihar is pleased to declare that with effect from the date of this notification the collection and disposal of all drifts and
stranded timber within the portion of the river Gandak and its tributaries including an area within a direct distance of
three miles from the main stream within the district of Champaran shall£e regulated under the provisions of Chapter VIII
of the said Act and the Rules made thereunder. He is further pleased to declare that all timber of the following
Page 12/89
----- PAGE 13 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
dimensions and species found a drift, beached, stranded, or sunk shall be exempted from the operation of this
notification:-
All timbers other than-
Sal, Sissoo, Deodar, Tun, Assina-Haldu, Chir, Sandan and all coniferous timber measuring less than 2 feet in girth and
six feet in length.
(2)
In exercise of the powers conferred under Section 41 and 42 of the Indian Forest Act, 1927 (Act XVI of 1927), the
Governor of Bihar is pleased to make the following Rules to regulate the transit of timber and other forest produce, in the
district of Champaran.]
[Substituted by C.S. No. 13 dated 9.7.1938.]
Rules to regulate the transit of timber and other forest produce on Gandak river. (Revenue Department Notification Nos.
3294-VIF-7-38-R., and 3295-VIF-7- 38-R., both dated the 21.4.1938 and No. 3296-VIF-38-R., dated 16.4.1938.)
1. No person having launched his timber on set it afloat on the Gandak river within the jurisdiction of Champaran district
shall collect the same except: -
(a)
with the permission, in writing, of the [Divisional] Forest Officer incharge of the [Champaran Division] Bettiah Forests, to
which the control of the river pertains;
(b)
at places which such Officer shall notify as a catching depot.
2. No person shall raft or otherwise convey any timber on the Gandak river within the jurisdiction of Champaran district
without first obtaining a pass from the [Divisional] Forest Officer, Champaran Division in which the river is situated. Such
pass shall show the number of logs or pieces, the species of timber, the length and girth of each log or piece, the marks
indicative of the owner's property therein, the place of its destination and the probable time required to float or raft the
same through the Gandak river within the district of Champaran. The pass may also specify that the timber may be
stopped at a place to be noted on the pass as a checking centre.
3. No pass shall be issued for any unmarked timber or for such timber as bears a mark not registered as hereinafter
provided.
4. Any Forest Officer or Police Officer may require any person rafting or conveying timbers as aforesaid, to produce the
pass for the same at any time. No person shall be entitled to raft or convey timber by virtue of a pass which he does not
himself hold but which is, or is stated to be, in the hands of some other person. In the event of the pass not being
produced, the Forest Officer may detain the timber. A Police Officer finding timber in transit not covered by a pass may
detain it, reporting the case at once to the [Divisional] Forest Officer, Champaran Division.
5. No person is permitted to deposit, any timber for which a pass has not yet been issued so close to the water's edge
as to endanger its being carried away by a rise in the river before the pass is issued.
6. All persons wishing to float or otherwise convey timber by the Gandak river within the jurisdiction of Champaran shall
register at the office of the [Divisional] Forest Officer, Champaran Division to which the control of the river pertains, the
mark or marks which indicate their proprietary right in such timber. A registration fee of Five Rupees shall be payable for
every separate mark so registered and the officer in whom the control of the river Gandak (within Champaran district) is
vested may order the registration of as many marks as he considers necessary to the efficient control of transport
operations. Ordinarily the registration of one mark only shall be required or permitted.
7. No person shall be allowed to register a mark already registered in favour of another person, nor any mark used by
the Government or the Bettiah Estate Forest Department, and the Forest Officer may refuse the registration of any mark
which in his judgement, so closely resembles a mark used by the Government as the Bettiah Estate Forest Department,
or registered in favour of any person as to be easily produced by slightly altering such marks.
8. Every registration under Rule 6 shall hold good for three years following the 1st January next after the date of
registration.
9. A certificate showing the mark registered, the date of registration, and the period for which it holds good, and
acknowledgement of the payment of the fee, shall be given to every person registering his mark.
10. Within the limits of any area notified under Section 45, the moving, converting, cutting, burning, concealing or
marking of timber, the altering or effacing any marks on the same, and the possession or carrying of marking hammers
or other implements used for the marking of the timber except with the permission in writing of the Divisional Forest
Page 13/89
----- PAGE 14 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
Officer is prohibited. Such permission if granted shall specify the place at which only it is to take effect, and may contain
such other conditions regarding the previous inspection of the timber and otherwise as may be necessary.
11. Any person who disobeys a requisition under the Rule shall be liable to a fine which my extend to one hundred
rupees and any person who infringes any other of these Rules shall be liable to a fine which may extend to five hundred
rupees.
In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 51 of the Indian Forest Act, 1927 (Act XVI of 1927), the Governor of
Bihar is pleased to make the following Rules to regulate the collection and disposal of drift and stranded wood and
timber within the portion of the river Gandak and its tributaries including an area within a direct distance of three miles
from the main stream within the district of Champaran.
Rules to regulate the collection and disposal of drift and stranded wood or timber
1. No person unless specially authorised in writing by the Forest Officer to whom the control of the river pertains may
salvage or collect wood or timber of any description other than unmarked unfashioned pieces not exceeding six feet in
length and two feet girth within the areas above notified.
2. The Forest Officer may grant permission in writing to the owner or owners of all timber bearing marks registered
under Section 41 of the Forest Act, XVI of 1927, which owing to flood or other cause is a drift or stranded, to salve and
collect such timber or may collect it himself or contract with a third party to salve and collect the same at certain places
at rates to be agreed upon between that party and the Forest Officer. Such-timber collected by the Forest Officer or by a
person authorised by him under this Rule shall be handed over to the owner or owners on payment by them of such
dues as may be fixed from time to time by the Forest Officer.
3. Timber bearing marks which have not been registered under Section 41 of the Forest Act, or on which the marks have
been obliterated, altered or defaced by fire or otherwise and fashioned timber bearing no marks may be salved and
collected by the Forest Officer or by a person authorised in writing by him. No such timber shall be delivered to any
claimant who under Section 47 of the Indian Forest Act has been recognised to be the owner until, under Section 50 of
the said Act, he has paid to the Forest Officer a sum not exceeding 25 per cent of its value as adjudged by that officer
together with such other expenses as may have been incurred in salving the said timber. Should the recognised owner
fail to make these payments within 10 days of his receiving intimation from the Forest Officer of the amount due the
property salved shall be dealt with (under Section 48 of the Act) as unclaimed timber.
All timber salved under these Rules which may become vested in the Government under Section 48 of the Act may be
disposed of to the best advantage after two months from the expiry of the period fixed for the disposal of claims under
Section 46 of the said Act.
4. All unfashioned wood or timber bearing no mark may be sold at any time by the Forest Officer where it lies stranded
when in his opinion it is not sufficiently valuable to be brought to a depot or the right to collect and dispose of such
timber may be leased by him.
5. All wood or timber when sold by the Forest Department under these Rules shall be marked with the Departmental
sale mark, and when relinquished under Rule 3 with a suitable distinguishing mark, and for the removal of any wood or
timber from the area above notified a printed and numbered pass must be obtained from such officials as may be
appointed by the Divisional Forest Officer, on which shall be entered the number of pieces and the kinds of wood and
timber and the amount realised from the purchaser or claimant, over the signature of the official appointed to this duty.
6. Any person who shall infringe any of the provisions of these Rules shall be punished with fine which may extend to
five hundred rupees.
Chapter-II [Bihar Reserved Forest (Fire Protection) Rules]
[Vide Notification No. 5303-IIIF-108-R., dated 11.5.1936.]
10. Fire Protection Rules.
- [In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of Section 76 and clause (b) of sub-section (1) of Section 26 of the
Indian Forest Act, 1927, and in supersession of all Rules previously made on the same subject the Government of Bihar
are pleased to make the following Rules for the prevention of fires in the Reserved Forests in the district of Ranchi,
Hazaribagh, Singhbhum, Palamau, the Santhal Parganas, Gaya and Manbhum.]
[Vide Notification No. 614-IIIF-108-R.R., dated 26.6.1936.]
These Rules may be called the Bihar Reserved Forest (Fire Protection) Rules.
A. Rules under clause (d) of Section 76 of the Act.
1. Any person authorised to collect inflammable forest produce including grass and bamboos within a reserved forest
Page 14/89
----- PAGE 15 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
shall arrange such produce in stacks in an open space at such distance from the Reserved Forest that no danger to the
forest is likely to result from ignition of the stacks.
2. No person shall camp within a reserved forest at any place other than a place cleared and set apart for the purpose of
camping by the Forest Officer. The Forest Officer shall in each year publish a list of places which may be used as
camping grounds during that year.
3. No person shall carry any burning wood, fire-brand, naked lighted torch, lighted biri, cigar or cigarette or any other
burning matter along the boundary of a reserved forest.
B. Rules under clause (b) of sub-section (1) of Section 26 of the Act.
4.
(1)
No person shall kindle a fire for the purpose of clearing any standing forest or grass land near to a reserved forest in
such a manner as to endanger such forest unless:-
(a)
He gives at least one week's notice to the nearest Forest Officer, Ranger or Forester of his intention to do so.
(b)
He clears a belt of land at least 20 feet broad on that side of the land which he proposes to burn which is nearest to such
forest.
(2)
No person shall kindle any fire referred to in sub rule (1) on any day or at any time when a high wind is blowing.
5. No person shall kindle a fire for the purpose of burning any wood, grass, weed or other cut materials on land adjoining
a reserved forest unless such materials is first collected into heaps and such heaps are burnt separately in such a
manner that the fire may not endanger such forest.
6. No person shall kindle a fire for cooking near a reserved forest in such a way as to endanger such forest and any
person who kindles any such fire shall extinguish it before leaving the spot on which the fire was kindled.
7. Rules 4, 5 and 6 shall apply only during the period beginning with the 1st day of January and ending on the 1st day of
July in each year.
11. Control of fire conservancy operations.
- The following instructions are laid down for the control of fire conservancy operations:-
(Government Letter No. 1725-IIIF-283-R., dated 19/20.2/1931)
1. Unless otherwise ordered by the Chief Conservator of Forests a scheme of fire conservancy accompanied by maps
should be provided for each division.
2. These fire conservancy schemes shall be compiled by Divisional Forest Officers and submitted for the approval of the
Conservator of Forests. No material alteration should be made in any such scheme without the sanction of the
Conservator. Minor changes may, however, be made at the discretion of the Divisional Forest Officer.
3. Extensions where made, should be of areas as compact and as large as possible. The addition of small isolated
areas such as the separate coupes of felling series is inadvisable.
4. Except as noted below, all men assisting in extinguishing fires in Government forest (including forest villagers) shall
be paid according to the amount of assistance rendered, at rates fixed by the Divisional Forest Officer in consultation
with the District Officer.
Exception. - (1) No Payment will be made to any person who exercises any right in a reserved or protected forest, or
who is permitted to take any forest produce from, or to cut and remove timber or to pasture cattle in such forest, any
person who is employed by any such person in such forest, any person in any village contiguous to such forest who is
employed by the Government; or who receives emoluments from the Government for services to be performed to the
community:
[Provided that it shall be permissible in case of urgency for the Divisional Forest Officer to issue to each person assisting
in the extinguishing of fire such "satu" or parched corn or other provision as may be deemed advisable in view of the fact
that the operation of extinguishing a fire will keep such person away from his home and normal meals for any length of
time and that if not issued, delay would occur in getting these persons out before they had their usual meals. A careful
check should be maintained by the Divisional Forest Officer on all such expenditure and the facts should be reported in
the fire reports by the officer submitting the reports.]
[Revenue Department letter No. 399-R.R.-IIIF-167, dated 26.5.1936.]
Page 15/89
----- PAGE 16 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
(2)
This Rule shall not be applicable to those cases whereunder the terms of any agreement or contract, persons are bound
to extinguish forest fires without payment.
5. Fire-lines are of two kinds exterior and interior. The responsibility for their up-keep rests with Divisional Forest
Officers.
6. Except in the case of certain malguzari, Zamindari and Feudatory States forests where special rules exist for the
maintenance and clearance of a joint boundary, the construction of exterior fire-lines should, as far as possible, be within
the limits of the Government forest and they should follow the boundary thereof. Occasions may sometimes arise when
in order to secure efficiency, it is necessary to deviate from sinuous or difficult boundaries in favour of straight lines
running through the Government forest.
7. Interior fire-lines are situated within Government forest and are intended to restrict within limits fires which have
broken out in protected areas which cannot be controlled except by counter-firing. These fire lines should follow the
course of roads open to the public and the beds of rivers and streams; for here, in addition to other advantages, natural
efficient fire-lines already exist. The construction of interior fire-lines along ridges should be avoided as far as
practicable, for there the effect of the wind is most powerful and the absence of water most marked.
8. Fire-line should be so selected and laid out on the ground that it will be not only practicable, but easy to traverse them
with facility. Steep gradients and rough ground must be avoided as far as possible. Where practicable, fire-lines should
follow natural clearings, such as open glades, the edge of cultivated plains or the beds of wide ravines and streams.
Water should be available along or near the fire-lines, and the localities where wells exist or should be made, and all
spots where water can be procured should be marked on the fire-maps.
9. When fire-lines have been properly settled, the details of the work to be done will be as follows: -
(a)
Attention will be paid to the isolation of the forest from the surrounding country. This will be effected by clearing the
exterior fire-lines of all inflammable material to a width determined by local circumstances, which should ordinarily be not
less than 40 feet or more than 100 feet. Not later than the months of December-January, two guide lines will be cut on
either side of the fire-line which is to be ultimately cleared.
The width of guide lines will depend on the height of the grass through which they run, and they must be cleared. This
work should be completed by the end of February.
(b)
Interior fire-lines will be similarly treated, but they will usually be narrower than the exterior lines.
(c)
As the season advances and the grass in the centre of the fire-lines dries, this grass should either be burnt off standing,
or cut close to the ground over the whole width of the line, if the latter course is followed, the cut grass should be spread
over the fire line between the guidelines be burnt as soon as it is dry.
(d)
Dry leaves and other dry material on the fire-lines must be swept up from time to time and deposited along the edge of
the fire-lines, and burning of such material on the lines after the hot weather has set in is strictly prohibited.
(e)
Except under the direct orders of the Divisional Forest Officer, and in the presence of Range Officer or other subordinate
authorised by the Divisional Forest Officer, no burning of fire-lines should be allowed after the 15th April.
Note. - Where an agreement exists/providing for clearance of the common boundary between the Government forests
and the forests belonging to private persons, the terms of the agreement should be followed.
10. It is the duty of fire-watchers constantly to patrol the fire-lines on their beats, to keep them entirely free from
inflammable material, to prevent the carrying or making of fire within or in the vicinity of the protected area, to give
immediate notice of the occurrence of a fire to the beat Officer, to collect assistance and themselves to aid in
extinguishing any fire that may occur.
11. The Range Officer shall be held personally responsible for the efficient clearing of the fire-lines.
12. Forest subordinates who see smoke rising anywhere in or near the forest, shall at once get together what aid they
can and proceed themselves to the spot. They must not sit quiet and send some body else to enquire and report. The
forest official who arrives at a spot where a fire is burning shall at once proceed to put it out. Should it be outside his own
beat or range he will continue there till relieved by the local men, when he will return to his own beat or range, unless the
Page 16/89
----- PAGE 17 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
fire is so strong as to demand all possible help.
This rule applies not only to reserves specially protected from fire, but also to reserves which are not so protected.
13. The Divisional Forest Officer is personally responsible for carrying out efficiently the fire protection measures
ordered in his division. He must satisfy himself that the exterior fire-lines have been properly cleared and thoroughly
burnt before danger from external fires arises and at the same time all interior fire-lines are in good order. He must by
continual inspection assure himself that the protective staff is efficient, and he must continue to attend to this work until
the arrangements for the efficient protection of the forest from fire are completed. The Divisional Forest Officer must
during his tours satisfy himself as far as possible that no unreported fires have occurred within the protected area, and
that areas of the fires which have been reported have been accurately estimated. These checks can only be effected by
personal inspection, which should always be as extensive and thorough as possible.
14.
On the occurrence of fire the Range Officer shall report it without delay to the Divisional Forest Officer, using special
despatch if the fire extends over a large area. It is the duty of the Range Officer to provide for rapid communication
between himself and the staff in the fire-protected forest so that undue delay may not occur in receiving intimation of the
outbreak of a fire and in the transmission of such intimation to the Divisional Forest Officer. The inspection of the area
burnt and the submission of a full final report with a sketch map by the Range Officer shall not, without valid excuse be
delayed for more than a fortnight after the occurrence of a fire.
15.
When any [fire]
[Vide Government of Bihar, Revenue Department, Letter No. 5323-R., dated 16.11.1937.]
occurs in specially protected forest, the Divisional Forest Officer will, if he is himself present and otherwise on receipt of
a report from the Range Officer, at once send a preliminary report of the occurrence to the Conservator of Forests in the
usual form (Form No. 38) unless he has reason to suppose that he can submit a full report within 15 days.
16.
The first report, in Form No. 38, on a forest fire need only give the locality, date of outbreak, measures taken to
extinguish the fire, and ascertain the cause and the approximate date by which a full report can be expected to follow.
No further report is necessary when preliminary report contains all the information available.
17.
A full report, in Form No. 38 supplementing and revising the information given in the preliminary report should be
submitted as soon as possible. The full report need not be delayed pending the result of prosecutions or lengthy
investigations which should be dealt with when complete.
18.
[ Except in the case of fires occurring in young crops under special protection, fires in the protected and non-protected
areas affecting an area of less than 320 acres need not be reported to the Conservator of Forests unless the occurrence
is of exceptional interest but it should, of course, be entered in the Divisional Register of fires.]
[Substituted by Government of Bihar, Revenue Department, Letter No. 5323-R., dated 16.11.1937.]
19.
[ At the end of the fire season the Divisional Forest Officer should send to the Conservator of Forests the fire map of the
division brought upto date and a consolidated report about the fires including intimation about those on which he has
already reported.
He should pay special attention to fires which have caused serious damage. The report should also summarise the
following:-
1. Number of fires considered of accidental origin.
2. Number of fires put down to incendiarism.
3. Number of cases in which offenders were caught and the number of the latter.
4. Number of cases in which no offenders were discovered.
5. Number of cases in which punishments were inflicted and number of offenders punished.
6. Dates on which rainfall occurred during the fire season and reference to intensity of rainfall.
7. Steps taken generally to combat the fires, i.e., counterfiring etc.,
8. Need for special steps to combat recurrences, and suggestions as to alteration to the present fire prescriptions in the
division.
Page 17/89
----- PAGE 18 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
9. Assistance of courts-Is it adequate?
10. Is help easily available?]
20.
Forest Sub-ordinates who have been concerned in firing unintentionally, extinguishing or obtaining labour to extinguish
fires should be mentioned by name as well as official designation in the report.
21.
Areas entered in fire reports should be expressed in acres, omitting fractions.
22.
When offenders concerned in fire cases are detected they should ordinarily be prosecuted. But in very exceptional
circumstances it may be desirable to compound such cases or let the offenders off with warnings, and in such
circumstances cases may be so disposed of, provided that the District Officer approves and any compensation fixed is
realised by the Divisional Forest Officer or by a Subordinate who is competent to compound cases. As a rule, when it is
not desirable to prosecute, warning offenders is preferable to compounding, due precaution being, of course, taken to
make the offenders understand that they are being leniently dealt with. The circumstances of all cases disposed of by
warning or compounding should be reported to the Conservator.
23.
Without convincing proof no forest fire shall be attributed to incendiarism and should that proof be forthcoming a
searching enquiry shall be made in order to discover the source of friction that has induced the malpractice.
24.
Conservator is empowered to grant rewards not exceeding Rs. 25 to fire patrols and other low paid subordinates whose
pay does not exceed Rs. 18 per mensem for specially good work done during fire seasons.
25.
A record of fires with fire maps on a scale of 4" to 1 mile for individual compartments and 1" to 1 mile for divisional map,
will be kept up in each Divisional Forest Office. Where compartment histories are maintained, details of fires should be
entered in them, and fire map (on a scale of 4" to 1 mile) should also form part of the compartment histories.
The following symbols will be used in fire maps:-
1928
?????
1929
1930
/////
1931
\\\\\
1932
x x x xx x x xx x x x
The map will be for a five year period when a fresh map with a rotation of the same symbols will be commenced.
12. Forest villages.
- The object of establishing Forest villages is to obtain a sufficient and continuous supply of labour for fire protection and
other works of improvement.
The following Rules for the formation and management of forest village are laid down for the guidance of Forest Officers.
(Government order No. 2987-III-F-34-R., dated 27.3.1931)
1. No new village should be started without the prior permission of the Conservator being obtained through the District
Officers.
2. Forest villages are designed solely to afford a permanent supply of suitable local labour, and are not to be established
merely for the purpose of extending cultivation and bringing in rents.
3. Only persons who are by race, caste, or occupation habituated to the extraction or handling of forest produce shall be
admitted to reside in a forest village, with the immediate families and dependant of such person. The number of houses
to be allowed in each village and the extent of cultivation shall be fixed by the Conservator. No outsider shall be allowed
to settle in the village without the written permission of the Divisional Forest Officer.
When a village is first established, allowance should be made for moderate increase of population in the families of first
settlers, and the full number of houses and the whole area available for cultivation should not be allotted at once.
Page 18/89
----- PAGE 19 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
4. A register shall be kept by the Divisional Forest Officer for entry of the following, for which separate pages should be
allotted: -
(a)
Description of each village.
(b)
Demarcation of its boundaries.
(c)
Tracing of the area assigned.
(d)
The number of cultivators admitted.
(e)
The special objects which the establishment of village was intended to serve.
5. All adults admitted as residents to a forest village shall execute an agreement in Form No. 43, and before executing
such agreement the following conditions shall be explained to them and they shall be bound by such conditions and
shall be liable to summary eviction without compensation by order of the Divisional Forest Officer for breach thereof: -
(a)
That the Forest Department has the first claim to their labour on payment as hereinafter provided.
(b)
That they will not accept any other employment which is likely to interfere with the prior claim of the Forest Department.
(c)
That they will be generally obedient to the orders of the Divisional Forest Officer.
6. Subject to the limitation in the number of house-holds indicated in Rule 3 each house-holder in the village shall be
entitled to the following privileges: -
(a)
Lands for cultivation will be assigned to him by the Divisional Forest Officer, sufficient with proper diligence, for the
support of himself and family. Such land will be granted free of rent, it shall be held as a service jagir and shall not be
alienable and shall be liable to resumption if the services of the grantee or of his successor are no longer required or if
such course is otherwise found necessary by the Forest authorities.
(b)
Free grazing will be given to him for such reasonable number of cattle as may be determined in each case by the
Divisional Forest Officer.
(c)
A free supply will be allowed him of all thorns and wood required for bona fide agricultural purposes, also of such wood
and grass for house building and repairs as the Divisional Forest Officer may deem reasonable; also of dead wood for
fuel, bamboos and of leaves and any edible fruits, flowers and roots required for domestic purposes.
(d)
The residents of the village shall have the first claim to employment in all forest works conducted under the orders or
supervision of the Forest Department and in collection of minor produce and shall be paid in cash for their work at such
fair rates daily or otherwise as may be fixed by the Divisional Forest Officer.
7. A headman shall be selected by each village, subject to the approval of the Divisional Forest Officer. He will assist the
forest official in the organization and employment of forest labour. He will also enforce such sanitary regulations as the
Divisional Forest Officer may prescribe. He shall report the occurrence of cognizable crime immediately at the nearest
police station and such other occurrences as the Divisional Forest Officer shall direct to the Forest Range Officer. He
shall be assigned a larger amount of land than his fellow tenants, which he shall hold on the same terms as the other
villagers.
8. The arrangements for the supply of country liquor and drugs to forest villages will be under the control and orders of
the District Officer.
9. The following points should be observed in the execution and record of Agreement Form No. 43.
(a)
A separate series shall be allotted to each forest village and a separate serial number given to the agreements executed
by each villager in any one village for record in the register referred to in paragraph 4.
Page 19/89
----- PAGE 20 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
Note. - Clause IV of the agreement should be cancelled except in those forms executed by village headmen.
(b)
A permit should be issued to each cultivator who enters into such an agreement on which the following details should be
recorded.
1. Name of cultivator and serial number.
2. Name of village
3. Area of land assigned for cultivation.
10. As soon as a forest village has been established a sketch map showing the blocks in which forest villages are
situated should be supplied to the Conservator with the area of each; and all changes in them should also be duly
reported to his office for keeping his register corrected upto date. The information under the following heads should be
given:-
Name of Forest
1. Name of village.
2. Date when established as forest village and Conservator's sanction number.
3. Area in acres.
4. Number of houses and working men.
5. Area under cultivation.
11. Progress in establishing such villages and results if any, should be commented upon by each Divisional Forest
Officer, in Chapter VIII of his Annual Report.
12. Takavi Advance: -  The following procedure is laid down for the grant of takavi advances to forest villagers in need of
financial assistance:-
1. Divisional Forest Officers will ascertain the probable requirements of each of the villages in their divisions and report
to the District Officer by the first week of September the amount required (or that no provision is required) for distribution
in his division.
2. The District Officer will in due course inform the Divisional Forest Officer of the amount placed at his disposal in the
district account against which he may draw advances.
3. These advances should be drawn from the Treasury on abstract bills and after distribution the Divisional Forest
Officer will furnish the District Officer with a detailed bill and remit the unpaid balance if any.
No entries will be made in the Divisional Forest accounts.
4. The Divisional Forest Officer will make periodical recoveries based on his copy of the detailed bill or from an extract
from the District Officers Takavi Register which will be furnished to him and shall remit the amounts recovered with
proper challans to the District Officer, for credit into the Treasury.
Note. - No land in the Reserved Forest outside the limits of forest villages shall be cultivated without the express
permission of the Conservator of Forests.
13. Taungya Cultivation.
- There are three different forms of leases for Taungya Cultivation and the circumstances under which they are to be
used are briefly indicated below:-
(1)
Manual Form No. (44). - This is the form of agreement far taungya cultivation pure and simple. The grantee receives a
specified area for temporary cultivation for a fixed period and in return agrees to raise plants of a specified forest species
in the area allotted to him free of charge. At the end of his lease the grantee delivers the area back to the Forest
Department fully planted up.
A separate agreement is to be signed by each individual for each area to be planted in the specified time and the
agreement automatically expires at the end of the period specified therein. The period should not exceed two years nor
the area that which it is possible for the lessee to plant up completely in two years.
(2)
Manual Form No. (45). - This Form of agreement is meant for cases where a forest village is established mainly for
obtaining labour for raising plantations by the Taungya method. Under this agreement the grantees may be allowed land
for erection of their houses but they will not get any land exclusively for cultivation of field crops. They temporarily
cultivate allotted areas and raise approved field crops for a period of two years only after which the areas are
automatically resumed by the Forest Department. A fresh area is again allotted to them for similar cultivation under a
Page 20/89
----- PAGE 21 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
new lease. In return the grantees agree to plant up the areas allotted to them with seedlings of such forest species as
are supplied to them by the Forest Department. This planting will be done free of charge by the grantees except that in
the case of the species planted, rewards will be paid at the scale laid down and depending on the degree of success.
The grantees also agree to work for the Forest Department in any other required capacity on payment at current rates
for labour. In divisions where rewards are not paid the clause can be crossed out or the rates varied.
If separate plots are given to different persons then a separate agreement should be executed for each person but there
is no legal objection to leasing plots to several persons jointly in which case only one agreement should be executed for
them all jointly. In either case the area covered by the lease should be the area to be planted with trees in two years,
and each successive two-year plot or series of plots should be covered by separate agreements.
(3)
Manual Form No. (46). - This form of agreement is applicable to cases where a forest village is established mainly for
obtaining labour for regenerating forest areas with plants of specified forest species under the taungya system. The
grantees receive (i) a specified area for raising field crops only, and (ii) such additional lands as may be allotted to them
by the Forest Department for taungya cultivation for a period of two years. In return the grantees agree to plant up the
additional lands with seedlings of forest species for which rewards are payable at the specified rates depending on the
degree of success and also to work for the Forest Department in any other required capacity on payment at current
rates for labour. Provision is also made for the loan of cattle for. purposes of cultivating the areas allotted to the grantees
under this form of agreement. On additional lands granted under (ii) only approved field crops will be allowed to be
raised.
If separate plots under (i) and (ii) above are given to different persons then a separate agreement should be executed
for each person and in the case of (ii) for each area to be planted during each period of two years but there is no legal
objection to leasing plots to several persons jointly in which case only one agreement should be executed for them all
jointly. Here also however, the land granted under (ii) should cover only the land to be planted up in two years by the
persons jointly and each new area planted under (ii) should be under a new lease.
14. Working plans.
- The procedure with regard to the preparation and revision of working plans is dealt with in the Code of Working Plan
Procedure in Bihar and Orissa. The procedure with regard to the exchange of working plans between provinces and the
instructions for writing up control forms and compartment history forms are also embodied in the Code.
The following is a precise of the instructions issued by the Government of India, Bengal, Bihar and Orissa from time to
time for the preparation of working plans:-
1. It frequently happens that the silvicultural treatment which is theoretically the best cannot be wholly applied owing to
want of demand and the like, and recourse must be had to a method which is not the best but which must be adopted to
satisfy the conditions. In such a case, besides dealing in the working-plan report with the method it is proposed to apply
immediately, the best method from a silvicultural point of view, i.e., best suited to the physical conditions of the forest,
should also be clearly indicated and briefly discussed in the plan. Any unavoidable departure from that method should
then, as far as possible, be explained and justified in detail. In treating of the best silvicultural method of three following
subjects may be taken consecutively: -
(a)
Object sought to be attained.
(b)
Method of treatment adopted.
(c)
The exploitable age.
2. When the demand is not equal to the possibility of the annual coupe, light or short fellings are frequently prescribed.
This principle is open to objection, as it results in some or all of the coupes containing at the end of the rotation a stock
of material which should have been removed in the interests of the forest.
Even though the whole possibility of a coupe cannot be utilized, the fellings should follow each other regularly, that is to
say, the cuttings of each successive year should continue those of the year preceding for, if this be done, then any
balance that may remain at the end of the rotation will be comprised in one complete block instead of existing in patches
scattered all over the forest. If during the course of the rotation the demand should be found to increase the existing
balance can be felled and the provisions of the plan fully complied with; while if, on the other hand, the demand does not
Page 21/89
----- PAGE 22 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
rise sufficiently to allow the possibility to be removed, then the necessary reduction in the size of the annual coupes will
be easy to carry out at a revision of the plan.
3. Works dealing with silvicultural improvement, and lines of communication and export should be completed after the
lapse of a definite period of years. They should be allotted in the plan to particular years, the allotment to be binding on
the local officers unless the Conservator sanctions a deviation for reasons recorded in Forest Department Code Form
No. 4. For buildings, demarcation, and minor works a general plan for a term of years may be prescribed, deviations
from which would require the sanction of the local Government, but the manner in which the details are carried out may
be controlled solely by the Conservator, who will record and give reasons in Form No.4, Forest Department Code, for
any deviations from the method of procedure originally suggested which he may sanction from year to year.
4. When submitting preliminary reports for the preparation of working plans as prescribed in Article 48. Forest
Department Code, 7th Edition, a small sketch map should be attached, showing roughly the proposed working circles
and any other useful information which can be conveniently included.
5. The question of forming separate fodder reserves or grazing working circles should be kept in view when the working
plans are prepared or revised.
6. Before a working plan is submitted to the Conservator for transmission to the Local Government, the Forest Officer
who prepares it must invariably show it in draft to the Collector or Deputy Commissioner of the district concerned with a
view to allow him an opportunity of recording his opinion on it and offering his advice.
7. The existing working plans should remain unaffected by the change of the forest year to the financial year. Whether
the forest year (1st July to 30th June) or the financial year or some other year should be adopted for purposes of
working plans and control returns will be settled in respect of a particular forest or forests by the Working Plans Officer in
consultation with the Divisional Forest Officer at the time of compilation or revision of the working plan. The author of the
working plan will make it quite clear what year he is using for the working plan.
15. Leases of forest produce.
- The following Rules are prescribed for the grant of leases for the removal of timber or other forest produce.
(Government order No. 3630-IIIF-38-R., dated the 8th April 1931)
1. No lease or contract shall be given out for any considerable period without adequate consideration of the
circumstances and prospects of the industry or work concerned and without securing the interests and objects of
Government by suitable terms and conditions.
2. Article 64(i) of the Forest Department Code, 7th Edition, requires that in exceptional cases where cash payment is not
received in full at the time of delivery, the transaction must be reported to the local Government if the value exceeds Rs.
5,000/- and that the previous sanction of the local Government must be obtained if the value exceeds Rs. 10,000/-.
Where cash payment is received in full at the time of delivery the Conservator may give out leases for the removal of
timber or other forest-produce up to Rs. 50,000/- in value and the Divisional Forest Officers, subject to the control of the
Conservator, up to Rs. 2,000/- but the Conservator is empowered to delegate to selected Divisional Forest Officers by
name the power to give out leases up to Rs. 5,000/-. The Conservator should inform Government whenever such
powers have been delegated.
Note. - Payment in instalments may be considered as payment in full at the time of delivery, provided that there is a
clause in the agreement to the effect that when the Divisional Forest Officer considers that the value of any
forest-produce removed by the purchaser equals or exceeds the amount of purchase money paid by him up to that time,
the Divisional Forest Officer may stop further removal until the purchaser has paid such further sum as, in the opinion of
the Forest Officer, may be sufficient to cover the excess value of the forest produce removed or about to be removed.
3. Divisional Forest Officers shall not grant any lease for any period exceeding one year. Conservator is empowered to
grant leases for periods up to three years. Without the previous sanction of higher authority, leases granted by these
officers respectively up to the maximum period within their power shall not be extended beyond such period except in
the case of leases for coupes sold to purchasers, in which case the Divisional Forest Officer may, at his discretion, give
fresh lease for the second year for the same area at a charge which may be nominal or otherwise according to the
lessee's work.
16. [ Execution of Contracts.
[Rule 75 (Government Publication, here Rule 16) Substituted vide C.S. No. 17, dated 9.7.1938.]
[Judicial Department Notification No. 815-J.-24-36-II, dated the 1st April 1937]
[Inserted as a new Rule 19 vide Government of Bihar, Revenue Department Letter No. 5323-R., dated 16.11.1937.]
Page 22/89
----- PAGE 23 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
. - In exercise of the powers conferred by subsection (3) of Section 175 of the Government of India Act, the Governor of
Bihar is pleased, in, supersession of all existing orders, to direct that the undermentioned classes of deeds, contracts
and other instruments may be executed on his behalf as follows:-
B. - In the case of the Forest Department.
1.
Contracts, security bonds and other instruments,
other than those specified in heads 3 and 4, in connection with
the administration and working of forests and with the business
of the Forest Department generally where the value of the
property or the amount of expenditure involved exceeds Rs. 2,000
but does not exceed Rs. 10,000.
By the Conservator of Forests.
2.
Contracts, security bonds and other instruments,
other than those specified in head 3 and 4, in connection with
the administration and working of forests and with the business
of the Forest Department generally when the value of the property
or the amount of expenditure involved does not exceed Rs. 2,000.
By Deputy Conservators, Assistant Conservators or Extra
Assistant Conservators of Forests while in charge of a forest
division.
3.
Conveyance deeds for the purchase of land, which Divisional
Forest Officers are authorised to buy for forest purposes when
the value does not exceed Rs. 2,000.
By the Conservator of Forests.
4.
Leases for cultivation inside reserved forests where the
annual rent does not exceed Rs. 500.
By Deputy Conservators, Assistant Conservators, or Extra
Assistant Conservators of Forests while in charge of a forest
division.
5.
Leases for cultivation inside reserved forests where the
annual rent exceeds Rs. 500.
By the Conservator of Forests.
As regards contracts, etc., not hereinbefore
specified.
* * * * * *
5.(a)
Contracts for the supply of articles required for the use of
any Department or for the sale of article produced or
manufactured by the Department, and other instruments connected
with the administration of the Department.
By the Head of the Department and the Superintendent,
Government Printing, except contracts for the sale of jail
produce which may be executed either by the Inspector-General of
Prisons or Superintendent of the Jail concerned.
* * * * *
9.
Contracts and other instruments relating to house building
Page 23/89
----- PAGE 24 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
advances.
By the authorities granting the advances.
* * * * *
16A.
[ Executive Instructions in the matter of execution of deeds, contracts and other instruments.
[Inserted Rule 75-A (as per Government Publication, here Rule 16A) vide C.S. No. 19, dated 9.7.1938.]
- With reference to part "B" of the Judicial Department Notification No. 815-J.-24-36-II, dated the 1st April 1937 (Rule 75
(as per Government Publication; here Rule-16) above) Government are pleased to issue the following Executive
instructions for the guidance of Forest Officers in the matter of execution of deeds, contracts and other instruments on
behalf of the Governor of Bihar:-
(i)
The instruments referred to in the Judicial Department Notification will be ordinarily-
(a)
contracts for the supply of materials by or to the Forest Department;
(b)
contracts for timber transport and conversion;
(c)
contracts for roads, bridges, buildings, wells, etc., which are to be constructed departmentally;
(d)
contracts for sale of forest produce;
(e)
leases for farming forest produce;
(f)
security bonds for the fulfilment of contracts or agreements, or for faithful service;
(g)
leases of buildings belonging to the Forest Department;
(h)
leases of land in reserved forests granted for purposes other than cultivation.
Note. - (g) Vide Form No. 52 of the Forest Manual.
(h)
Vide Form No. 53 of the Forest Manual.
(ii)
The orders of Government should be obtained in any case where any doubt may arise.
(iii)
The Conservator and the other Forest Officers mentioned in the said notification are empowered to cancel or reduce the
sale money payable under any contract which they are empowered to execute;
Provided that the orders passed by other Forest Officers are subject to the approval of the Conservator of Forests.
(iv)
No deed or instrument relating to land or any right or interest in land except conveyance deeds or leases for cultivation
referred to in items 3, 4 and 5 of part B of the aforesaid notification and in clauses (g) and
(h)
of item (i) of these instructions should be executed by any Forest Officer except with the previous sanction of
Government.
(v)
The power of the officers mentioned against item 4 of part B of the notification referred to above to execute the leases
specified therein is subject to the previous approval of the Conservator.
(vi)
The authorities empowered to sanction house building advances have also the power to execute contracts and other
instruments relating to such advances.]
17. Grant of Rewards Section 76(b) of Indian Forest Act, 1927 [Revenue Department No. 3753-IIIF-158-R., dated the
24th August, 1937]
Page 24/89
----- PAGE 25 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
[Notification No. changed vide C. S No. 20, dated the 9.7.1938.]
.
(1)
All non-gazetted Government Officers and persons not in the employ of Government are eligible for rewards under these
Rules.
(2)
Where any Magistrate or Court has imposed a fine for any forest offence such Magistrate or Court shall send a report of
the imposition and realization of such fine-
(a)
in the case of an offence committed in, or relating to a forest under the control of the Forest Department, to the
Divisional Forest Officer concerned;
(b)
in the case of an offence committed in or relating to a forest managed by the Civil Department;
(i)
if such forest is situated in the Rajmahal or Godda subdivisions of the district of the Santhal Parganas or the Khurda
subdivision of the district of Puri, to the Subdivisional Officer concerned;
(ii)
if such forest is situated in the Sadar subdivision of the district of Angul, to the Subdivisional Officer of Angul or to any
Sub-Deputy Magistrate exercising jurisdiction in the said subdivision;
(iii)
in any other case, to the Collector or Deputy Commissioner of the district in which the offence was committed.
(3)
The Officer to whom a report is sent under Rule (2) may grant rewards in such proportion as he thinks fit to persons
instrumental in the detection of the offence, the seizure of the articles; or the capture of the offender:
Provided that-
(a)
the total of the rewards paid in respect of any forest offence shall not exceed the amount of fine realized and the sale
proceeds if any of any article is confiscated;
(b)
a reward exceeding Rs. 10/- shall not, without the previous sanction of the Conservator of Forests, be paid in respect of
a forest offence committed in any forest.
(4)
(a)
When it has been decided to grant to any person a reward not exceeding Rs. 100/-, the whole amount of such reward
shall be paid without any delay to such person.
(b)
When it has been decided to grant a reward exceeding Rs. 100/- to any person, Rs. 100/- of the amount of such reward
shall be paid without any delay to such person, and the balance shall be paid to him after the expiration of the period
allowed for filing an appeal against the decision of the Magistrate or Court trying the offence in respect of which the
reward has been granted.
(c)
If the conviction for a forest offence in respect of which a reward has been paid to any person is reversed on appeal, the
amount paid to such person shall not be recovered from him unless the officer granting the reward is satisfied that such
person has acted fraudulently in obtaining such reward.
(5)
When a Forest Officer has under clause (a) of Section 68 of the Indian Forest Act, 1927 accepted a sum of money as
compensation, a reward may be paid to any person, who may have contributed to the discovery of the suspected
offender;
(a)
if the offence is suspected to have been committed in a forest managed by the Forest Department by a Divisional Forest
Officer empowered by the State Government to compound offences under the said Section 68;
Page 25/89
----- PAGE 26 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
(b)
if the offence is suspected to have been committed in the undemarcated protected forests in the Khurda subdivision of
the Puri district, by the Subdivisional Officer of Khurda;
(c)
if the offence is suspected to have been committed in any other forest managed by the Civil Department, by the
Collector or Deputy Commissioner in charge of the forest:
Provided that-
(i)
a Divisional Forest Officer shall not without the previous sanction of the Conservator of Forest, pay a reward exceeding
Rs. 10/- in respect of any one suspected offence;
(ii)
the total rewards paid in connection with the discovery of any one suspected offence shall not exceed the sum
recovered as compensation.
17A.
[ Revenue Department letter No. 9638-R., dated the 21st November, 1936.]
[Rule 76-A (as per Government Publication, here 17A) Inserted vide C.S. No. 86, dated 10.1.1940.]
.
- In determining what compensation should be accepted under Section 68(1) (a) of the Indian Forest Act XVI of 1927
when a wild animal or bird has been killed in contravention of the "Bihar and Orissa Government Reserved Forests
Shooting Rules, 1930", an officer empowered under that Section should assume the value of the animal or bird killed to
be as follows:-
Rs.
a.
P.
Elephant
?
?
100
0
0
Buffalo
?
?
75
0
0
Bison
?
?
50
0
0
Sambhar
?
?
25
0
0
Nilgai
?
?
Page 26/89
----- PAGE 27 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
20
0
0
Spotted deer
?
?
15
0
0
Barking deer
?
?
7
8
0
Mouse deer
?
?
5
0
0
Tiger
?
?
50
0
0
Leopard
?
?
20
0
0
Bear
?
?
5
0
0
Pig
?
?
10
0
0
Hare and pea fowl
?
?
2
0
0
Page 27/89
----- PAGE 28 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
Jungle fowl, spur fowl, partridge, pigeon, quail, duck, teal,
florican.
1 each
0
0
18. Classification of charges for rewards. Government of B. & O., F. D., letter No. 2623-F.R., dated 16th July 1932.
- The charges on account of rewards should be classified as follows:-
They should be debited to the head "8-Forests-Miscellaneous-Other charges", or to the head "26-Police-District
Executive Force-Allowances- voted", according as the prosecution is initiated by an officer of the Forest Department or a
police officer. When prosecutions are initiated by civil officers who have been vested with the powers of a Forest Officer,
e.g., District Officers, Hazaribagh, Palamau and Angul, the Subdivisional Officers, Rajmahal, Godda and Khurda, the
charges for rewards should be debited to the head "22-General Administration-General Establishment-Other allowances
or Subdivisional Establishment-Other allowances" according as the prosecution was initiated by a District Officer or a
Subdivisional Officer. Copies of orders sanctioning the rewards should be attached to the bills in which they are drawn.
As regards the classification of receipts, the fines imposed and realized by a Magistrate or a Court for an offence under
the Act should be credited to the head "XVII-Administration of Justice-General Fees, Fines and Forfeitures" in respect of
forests whether under the direct charge of the Forest Department or under the charge of the Civil Department.
Compensations realized on the compounding of forest offences and sale-proceeds of properties confiscated, should be
credited to the head "VIII-Forests" in the case of forests directly managed by the Forest Department and to the head
"V-Land Revenue-Miscellaneous-Fines and forfeitures of Revenue Courts" in the case of forests under the charge of the
Civil Department.
19. Seeding of bamboos, etc. Government of India No. 261-F-74-1, dated the 1st March 1899. I.-G. of Forests Circular
No. 29, dated 31st October 1893.
- Whenever a seeding year (which should be watched for) of any species save the commonest [Dendrocalamus strictus
and Hamiltonii and Bambusa arundinacea] occurs, at least 10 lbs. of the seed should be collected, and intimation of this
having been done sent to the Inspector-General of Forests, who will advise the Conservator concerned how to dispose
of the seed, and if necessary, give instructions for the collection of a further quantity.
The occurrence of a good seed year of any of the more important kinds of trees or bamboos in every Forest Division
should be reported to the Editor of the Indian Forester.
20. Collection of edible forest produce. Conservator's circular No. 71-T.P., dated 7th August 1891, and Bengal
Government letter No. 15 T.-R., dated the 23rd July 1891.
- Unless absolutely necessary in the interests of fire-conservancy and the general protection and improvement of the
forests, the collection, consumption, and removal by the public of any forest-produce, other than animals and the part
and produce of animals which may be utilizable as human food, or in medicine, or which may be required for some
purely ornamental purpose, such as ferns, flowers, grasses, etc., should not be interfered with, provided-
(i)
that all produce collected and removed under the permission contained in this order is for private use, and not for sale or
barter; and
(ii)
that when the edible or medicinal produce is an article of trade in the locality, and of commercial value, bringing in an
annual revenue of Rs. 100 or more, it may not be removed by any person in larger quantity than one seer at a time.
20A.
[ Free grant of certain privileges to villagers adjoining the reserved and protected forests in Bihar,
[Rule 79-A (as per Government Publication, here 20A) Inserted vide C.S. No. 181, dated 19.6.1942.]
(Government of Bihar Revenue Department Letter No. 8994-IIIF-23/39-R., dated the 11th December, 1939). - "(1) Any
bona fide recorded tenant of any land or building who resides in a village which is actually contiguous to a reserved or a
protected forest may, within the limits of such forest and without payment-
(a)
collect mahua fruits and flowers, and other edible flowers and fruits and roots for his own domestic use but not for any
kind of transfer whatsoever, whether permanent or temporary, or absolute, or conditional. This privilege will be allowed
subject to the control of the Forest Department and under the restriction that the undergrowth or dry leaves should not
Page 28/89
----- PAGE 29 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
be burnt for purposes of clearing the ground to facilitate collection;
(b)
pasture and use springs for watering his own cattle or buffaloes which are his own bona fide property and are used for
his own domestic and agricultural purposes:
Provided that he will not be entitled to this concession for any cattle exceeding four heads for every acre of land he
cultivates:
Provided further that grazing will be permitted only in such areas as may be set apart for the purpose from time to time
by the Forest Department.
(2)
If the villagers abuse the privileges allowed to them and wilfully damage the forest, the Conservator of Forests may
suspend the exercise of the privileges for such time as he thinks fit. If after repeated warnings and suspensions the
villagers continue to damage the forest, the matter should be referred to Government for orders.]
21. Grant of forest produce to villagers free or at concession rates from Reserved Forest (Government Letter No.
1097-III-F-229-R.R., dated 2nd September, 1931).
- (i) It is not the policy of Government to grant to villagers, forest produce from reserved forests at concession rates.
Each application for such concession should be considered on its merits and should not ordinarily be granted unless the
rights to such a concession have been exercised and admitted or recorded in the past, nor should it be usually granted
where the villagers have wasted their supply in the village or protected forests by indiscriminate cutting:
Provided the principles are followed, the Chief Conservator of Forests may make grants of timber or other forest
produce free or at concessional rates up to the value of Rs. 1000/-, and the Divisional Forest Officers up to the value of
Rs. 250/- in any one case subject to the conditions laid down in Article 58 of the Forest Department Code 7th Edition:-
Note 1. - The existing Rules do not permit of a free grant of Forest produce to persons for rebuilding their houses which
have been burnt down by fire [Vide Government Letter No. 10093-111F-194-R., dated 3.9.1934].
[Note 2. - (1) Free-grant of timber not exceeding Rs. 300/- a year may be granted for annual repairs to village schools in
the Khashmahal villages in the forest divisions in Singhbhum district. (Revenue Department letter no. 7587 R-IIF-102,
dated the 8th November, 1938).]
[Vide C.S. No. 144 dated 30.11.1940.]
[Note 3. - The Deputy Commissioner of the Santhal Parganas is empowered to make free grants of timber [xxx]
[Inserted vide C.S. No. 167 dated 15.8.1941.]
to the resident raiyats of Khasmahal villages outside the Damin area except those who pay rents for their homestead
lands only, provided there is timber available in the protected forests, if there be any, in their own villages. (Vide
Revenue Department Letter No. 55-III-F-14-41-R.R., dated the 24th April, 1941).]
(ii)
Grants of timber or other forest produce free or at concessional rates will not normally be made to the educational and
charitable institutions for the constructions of or repairs to buildings, unless, the grant is to be used for the benefit of the
public or sections of the community in their collective capacity and for real assistance in the development of forest
Revenue.
(iii)
In times of distress, e.g. after flood or fire, forest produce distributed at the instance of Revenue Officers should be paid
for by them out of grants placed at the disposal for purposes of relief except where the recipients have a right to such
produce in which case it should be supplied free up to the limit of the particular forest area in which such rights subsist.
Any produce supplied in excess of those capabilities, e.g. from other forest area, should be paid for by the requisitioning
authority according to the schedule of rates prevalent in the locality.
(iv)
The value of the free grant of timber should be calculated as follows:-
(a)
The value of free grant of timber other than timber from the depots, will be calculated in terms of full royalty as
mentioned in the Schedule of rates prevalent in the locality.
(b)
The value of timbers from the depots is the sale value in the depot.
(v)
Page 29/89
----- PAGE 30 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
The Forest Department is considered to be one of Quasi Commercial Departments which are to be remunerated for
service rendered and for produce supplied. The Forest Department will charge the departments of Government or local
bodies for all forest produce supplied to them at market rate or in the same manner in which it charges the public
provided that this rate will not apply in case when the Forest Department is certain to benefit from the transaction.
There is, however, no objection to making free grants of stones, road metal and other forest produce from Government
forests under the control of the Forest Department to district boards or local bodies where their roads pass through and
are useful to Government forest. Such grant should be made by formal grant which must pass through the accounts of
the Forest Department and necessary provisions for it should be made in the Forest Budget. The Chief Conservator of
Forests is authorised to make such grant to a value not exceeding Rs. 500/- in any one case subject to the limit of Rs.
1000/- a year and the Conservator upto a value not exceeding Rs. 250/- in any one case subject to the limit Rs. 500/- a
year, for all cases taken together.
(vi)
Free grants of timber or other forest produce may be granted to the employees of the Forest Department who are
serving or have served the Department loyally and faithfully at free or concessional rate by the State Government on
recommendations made by the Chief Conservator of Forest, Bihar.
(viii)
The cost of free grants of timber etc., is debitable to the budget grant under Forests-Conservancy and
Works-Miscellaneous- Revenue foregone by free grants.
22. Free grants of forest produce (Government of India No. 2024-214-2-F., dated 11th September 1905. Bengal
Government no. 4244-T.R., dated the 17th October 1905).
- The following Rules [regarding]
[For further information regarding this matter see relevant matter below Rule 122 (as per Government Publication, here
Rule 63) in indent (Pg. 361).]
free grant of forest produce for works of Public Departments in the Santhal Parganas are prescribed:-
Timber and other produce required for Public Works, such as roads, bridges and buildings, which will be of assistance in
the development of forest revenue in the Santhal Parganas district, shall be supplied by the Forest Department free of
charge on the following conditions:-
(1)
The Deputy Commissioner will cause estimates of amounts of timber or other produce required for each work to be
prepared, and will forward them on to the Divisional Forest Officer with instructions to mark the trees or make over other
produce required.
(2)
On the receipt of such instructions the Divisional Forest Officer must, unless the value of the tress or other produce at
current rates exceed Rs. 500, or he has reason to consider an estimate excessive, in either of which cases he must at
once report to the Deputy Commissioner, mark the trees or supply the other produce in the area most conveniently
situated in respect to the work for which they are required, where trees or other produce are available.
(3)
If the value of trees or other produce required for any work exceeds Rs. 500 the Deputy Commissioner will refer to the
Conservator with a view to obtain Government's sanction of the grant, and, if he does not agree to the reduction of any
estimate proposed by the Divisional Forest Officer he will consult the Conservator. If he fails to agree with the
Conservator the question must be referred to the Commissioner for final orders.
(4)
If the Forest Department supplies timber or other produce it has collected at the cost of Government, the Civil
Department will refund to the former direct expenses incurred on its collection.
Chapter-III [Bihar Government Reserved Forest Grazing Rules, 1939]
[Rule 81-A (as per Government Publication, here Rule 22-A) Inserted vide C.S. No. 145 dated 30.11.1940.]
22A.
[ Rules to regulate the pasturing of cattle in Government Reserved Forest.
[Rule 81-A (as per Government Publication, here Rule 22-A) Inserted vide C.S. No. 145 dated 30.11.1940.]
- In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of Section 76 and clause (a) of sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the
Indian Forest Act, 1927 (XVI) of 1927), the Governor of Bihar is pleased to make the following Rules to regulate the
Page 30/89
----- PAGE 31 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
pasturing of cattle in Government Reserved Forests. -]
1. These Rules may be called the "Bihar Government Reserved Forests Grazing Rules, 1939".
2. In these Rules, unless there is anything repugnant in the subjects or context: -
(a)
"Grazing licence" means a licence granted under Rule 4; and
(b)
"Licensee" means a person who holds a subsisting Grazing Licence.
3. (a) Save as provided in Rule 9, no person other than a licensee shall pasture cattle in any Government Reserved
Forest.
(b)
No licensee shall pasture cattle in Government Reserved Forest except in accordance with the conditions of his licence.
4. The Divisional Forest Officer or any other Forest Officer authorised by the Divisional Forest Officer in this behalf may,
on application by any person, and on payment by such person of the fee fixed under Rule 5, grant to such person a
licence authorising him to pasture cattle in a Government Reserved Forest.
5. The fee payable for a Grazing Licence shall be such fee, not exceeding two rupees per head of cattle as the
Divisional Forest Officer may, with the approval of the Conservator of Forests, from time to time determine and shall be
either paid in cash to the officer to whom the application is made or deposited in the nearest treasury. It the fee is
deposited in a treasury, the duplicate of the challan showing the deposit shall be delivered to the Officer to whom the
application is made.
6. A Grazing Licence shall be in the Form appended to these Rules and shall -
(a)
be valid for the area and for the period mentioned therein;
(b)
entitle the person to whom it is granted to pasture any number of cattle not exceeding the number entered therein; and
(c)
be subject to the conditions specified therein and to the provisions of these Rules.
7. A Grazing Licence shall not be transferable.
8. A licensee or his agent or servant, as the case may be, shall, while he is pasturing cattle in a Government reserved
forest, carry his Grazing Licence and shall, on demand by any Forest Officer, produce the same for his inspection.
9. Notwithstanding anything contained in Rule 3, a person whose right to pasture cattle free of charge in the
Government Reserved Forest of any village has been recorded in the record of the Forest Settlement of the village
prepared by the Forest Settlement Officer under Chapter II of the Indian Forest Act, 1927 shall be entitled to pasture
cattle in such forest without a Grazing Licence.
10. The Divisional Forest Officer may cancel a Grazing Licence if the licensee or any servant of the licensee commits a
breach of any of the conditions of such Gazing Licence or of any of these Rules.
Form of Grazing Licence
[See Rule 6(a)]
Book No.
Forest Department....... Bihar
Grazing Licence No.
.......... Division
Zamindaridealer.........
Locality
Name and address of the licensee
No. and particular of animals
Rate
Total amount paid
1
2
3
4
Page 31/89
----- PAGE 32 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
Date of issue.........
Date of expiry.........
Signature of Divisional Forest Officer or other ForestOfficer authorised in this behalf by the D.F.O.
Signature of check Muharrir
[Government of Bihar, Revenue Department Notification Nos. 8997-R/III-T-152-39, dated 12.12.1939, & 366-R/III-F-152,
dated 15.1.1940]
23. Grazing in river-beds adjoining State forests. Bengal Government letter No. 670-T.R., dated the 31st August 1904.
- Cattle of all descriptions may be grazed in the bed of any river which though included in a Government reserved forest
at the same time forms a boundary between the reserved forest and either a protected forest or a Government or
jagirdari estate:
Provided that the Deputy Commissioner may order any or all cattle-owners who graze their cattle in such river-beds to
discontinue grazing cattle in the same if he considers that such owners or their servants have on any occasion failed to
take sufficient precautions to prevent or extinguish forest fires, or to prevent trespass of their cattle in other parts of
reserved forests- or if he is of opinion that the grazing of their cattle is likely to lead to forest fires or to cattle trespass in
other parts of reserved forests.
24. Control of trees etc. on the portions of the Ranchi Chaibasa Road falling within Reserved Forests (Vide Government
of B. & O.P.W.D. No. 4243-C-IR-5 dated 23.3.1916).
- The Forest Department should have control of the trees and other forest produce situated on the portions of the
Ranchi-Chaibasa road falling within the Reserved Forest.
Chapter-IV Control of Timber and Other Stock
Procedure and Accounts
25. Fellings.
- (i) The produce of all fellings must appear either in Form No. 1 or No. 4 or No. 6, or in the form which may be
prescribed under Rule 96 (as per Government Publication, here Rule 37).
(ii)
"The gross yield" of a forest is the total volume (in cubic metres solid) or quantity of all produce felled or cut, whether
removed and utilised or not. The "Outturn" or net yield comprises such portion of the gross yield as has been or will be
utilised.
(iii)
The gross yield of all fellings by Government agency must appear in Form Nos. 1 and 2. Wastage or other unutilisable
material will be written off in Form Nos. 1 and 2. The out turn of illicit fellings shown in Form No. 12 should be shown in
Form No. 1 when the produce lapses to Government. The out turn of all other fellings must appear in Form No. 4 or
No.6 or in the form which may be prescribed under Rule 96. This will not apply to areas being worked departmentally for
which separate Rules have been framed.
26.
Depots.
- Under the system of Government working, two classes of depots will be established:-
(i)
Forest depots.
(ii)
Sale depots.
It will rest with the Conservator to decide what localities shall be forest depots and which sale depots (In some cases
special plots will be set aside as "forest depots" in other, the areas where the fellings have been made will be considered
as "forest depots").
27.
Depot Register.
- All timber and forest produce on reaching a forest depot and on its despatch or disposal will be shown in Form No. 1.
The Chief Conservator of Forest will issue instructions whether ail columns in these forms shall be filled up or whether
any may be left blank.
28.
Register of receipts and disposals in depots.
Page 32/89
----- PAGE 33 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
- In each sale depot will be kept a Register of Receipts and Disposals (Form No.1) in which will be entered all stock as it
arrives or is sold or otherwise disposed of. Separate Registers will be kept for-
(a)
Timber, including drift and waif wood;
(b)
bamboos, fuel, and other forest-produce.
29.
Timber received in sale depots to be measured and marked.
- (i) All logs and scantlings on reaching a sale depot will be measured and marked in such manner as may be ordered
by the Conservator. The number or measurement, or both as the case may be of the logs and scantlings must be
entered daily in the Register of Receipts as they are taken charge of.
(ii)
Sale-Mark. - Logs and scantlings, when sold, will be marked with the sale mark.
30.
Monthly Depot Returns (Form Nos. 2 & 3).
- (i) The following returns will be submitted monthly from each forest and sale depot to the Divisional Officer:-
Form No. 2. - Receipts and issues of timber and other produce.
Form No. 3. - Sales of timber and other produce, including drift and waif wood.
(ii)
Each description of produce will be grouped together, and the numbers and quantities will be totalled separately. The
receipts and issues of forest depots will be shown separately from those of sale depots. These returns should be filed in
the Divisional Office after check in guard books or bound.
(iii)
All transactions shown in Form No.2 necessitating payments should appear in Form No. 14, Forest Account Code of the
same month and vice versa. Should the transactions be shown in Form No. 2 and Form No. 14 of the Forest Account
Code, for different months, a note should be made in the "Remarks" column of the Form in which the transaction has
been entered showing the months in which the entry appears in the other Form. When the entries made in both Forms
do not tally the discrepancy should be explained against the entry in Form No. 2.
31.
Sales of timber etc collected by Government agency.
- (i) Form No. 3, will show the sales, the proceeds of which are credited under Revenue head-I, and of so much under
head-III as is obtained by the sale of drift and waif wood and confiscated forest produce collected by Government
agency.
Form No. 3 (ii)The entries in this Form will consequently comprise all disposals by sale of timber and other produce
shown in Form No.2, the totals for forest depots and sale depots being shown separately.
32.
Permit Form No. 9.
- (i) For all timber or other forest produce sold otherwise than from depot, a permit in Form No.9 or [Form No. 37]
[Vide C.S. No. 146, dated 30.11.1940.]
must be given before any of the aforesaid purchase can be removed by the purchaser. In the case of trees felled and
logged by the purchaser in the forest, such permit will not be issued without the production of the Coupe Officers'
certificate in Form No. 10. This permit or licence will be issued under such Rules and in such Forms as the State
Government may from time to time prescribe. Permit or licence Forms shall be kept in [duplicate, or]
[Vide C.S. No. 146, dated 30.11.1940.]
triplicate in bound books and bear printed serial numbers and the words 'original', 'duplicate' and 'triplicate'. Each permit
or licence issued shall be filled in by the officer issuing it in the original as well as in the counterfoils, and be provided
with a serial annual number. All amounts of produce as well as of money, shall be written in words as well as in figures.
(ii)
In the case of pre-paid licenses the officer issuing the licence may receive either cash or a treasury challan as proof of
payment. The original licence shall be given to the licensee, the duplicate shall be attached to the monthly accounts and
the triplicate be kept by the issuing officer.
Page 33/89
----- PAGE 34 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
(iii)
In cases where under the conditions of the permit, timber is marked with a Government sale-hammer on passing
revenue stations, or where forest produce is otherwise allowed to leave the limits of the forests, the officer marking such
timber or passing such forest produce shall collect the original licences, and the purchase certificates which may have
been granted on the strength of such licenses and forward them to the Divisional Officer under whose signature or
authority they were issued. They should be pasted into the book of licenses, each against its counterfoil.
(iv)
In the case of unpaid licences, or purchase certificates granted thereunder, the original shall be given to the licensee
and the duplicate be sent to the officer empowered to mark or pass the produce on payment of the revenue due when
the payment has been effected which may be done by cash or treasury challan. The officer receiving it shall at once
return the duplicate, entering thereon any purchase certificates which may have been granted on the strength of such
licence. These should be pasted into the licence book of the issuing officer, each against its counter foil. The original
should be submitted as a revenue voucher to the accounts of the passing officer.
(v)
The books of licences should be periodically examined by the Divisional Officer, the returned licences being checked
with their counterfoils and with the entries of the amounts realised on their account in the cash book or in the original
accounts of the officer who issued the same, and an explanation called for as regards any licences missing or unduly
delayed.
33.
Taking stock in sale depots.
- The stock at each sale depot must be counted periodically at such intervals as the Conservator may direct, the depot
books being balanced at the time of counting.
34.
Bill and Receipt Books (Form Nos. 7 & 8).
- (i) A bill book must be used for lists of timber and other produce sold from depots. On each transaction taking place,
the bill may be given to the purchaser, while a copy is rewarded to the Divisional Officer and the counterfoil will form the
depot copy.
(ii)
A receipt book must also be used for receipts of price paid to be given to purchasers.
35.
Return showing Sales from forests of Produce cut by purchasers (Form No. 4).
- (i) All timber or other produce cut, collected and removed from the forest by consumers and purchasers will be entered
in a monthly statement prepared in Form No. 4. The Range Officer will submit this return monthly to the Divisional Forest
Officer who will file if in his office after check in guard books or have it bound.
(ii)
Form No. 4 will show the sales, the proceeds of which are credited under Revenue head-II, arranged and totalled in
horizontal lines according to subheads, and so much of the revenue under head-III, as is obtained by the sale of drift
and waif wood and confiscated forest produce collected and removed by consumers or purchasers.
(iii)
When leases are granted for certain fixed periods to collect produce and the revenue is payable in instalments an
estimate should whenever practicable, be made of the quantity of produce removed, and the total estimated quantity
should be shown in Form No. 4 once only. When the last instalment of revenue due is entered in that Form as having
been received.
(iv)
When the price of the produce entered in column 6 is only partially realised, or not realised at all, the number and date of
the Conservators' sanction for deferring realisation should be noted in the column provided for this purpose.
(v)
Any entry in Form No. 4. in which the rate differs from the sanctioned schedule of rates should be intialled by the
Divisional Forest Officer in the "Remarks" column to show that the rate has been adopted under his orders.
36.
Revenue demand and outstandings (Forms Nos. 5, 25 and 28).
Page 34/89
----- PAGE 35 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
- (i) Revenue payable for timber and other produce sold under an agreement which is paid in one or more instalments
on fixed dates will be entered in red at once on execution of lease in the proper columns in Form No. 5. Each sale will be
given a serial number. All payments will be entered in black, in column "PAID", and all overdues in red. If any amount is
paid by a contractor in excess of the demand or in advance against a Particular 'sale entered in this Form the amount
will be entered in black in column "PAID" in the month in which it is collected and will be carried forward to the column
"overdue" in the following months either as a minus black entry or as a red ink entry according as the payment is in
excess or deficit of the amount due in the previous month. The revenue demands for which there is no agreement, such
as the grazing and house licence fees realized by the Khas Mahal Authority in the Puri Forest Division, will be entered in
this Form and will be treated as due on the last day of the financial year. Two copies of this form will be prepared, one
copy being kept in the Divisional Office and the other sent to the Conservator of Forest monthly, which will be returned
after his perusal.
When revenue on account of sale of timber or other forest produce on royalty basis is paid in advance, the amounts will
be at once credited to the appropriate sub-heads in the cash book, entries being made in red ink in Form No. 3 or 4, as
the case may be, showing the nature of transaction, etc. Such revenue should in no case be left unadjusted for longer
than three months. A ledger account should be maintained in Form No. 12, Forest Account Code, a separate account
being opened for each contractor for each separate contract.
Petty revenue demands, such as water rent, house rent, etc. should be entered in a register in Form No. 28, and
maintained in Divisional Office. Any revenue not fully realised, in Form No 4, should be noted in the remarks column of
that Form. The Form No. 4, should be kept pending until the amount is realised and other objections settled. As a matter
of principle, no produce should be allowed to be extracted from the forests until the value is fully realised. Recoveries
from subordinates for losses of or damage to Government property through negligence are not fines and should be
entered either in Form No. 4, or in Form No. 28 to watch recovery.
An abstract of realisations and outstandings in Form No. 25, will be submitted monthly to the Conservator of Forests by
the Divisional Forest Officers with a note of all changes (by reference to serial numbers in Form 5) and additions.
(ii)
If any outstanding revenue becomes irrecoverable the sanction of the proper authority should be obtained to its being
written off; and when the sanction is received, the amount should be entered in red ink, in the column "PAID" in Form
No. 5, or in the column "Date of recovery" in Form No. 28, a reference being made to the sanction under which the entry
is made.
37.
Produce removed by right-holders.
- Whenever practicable, produce removed by right-holders, or under privileges granted by Government shall be shown
in registers similar to Form No. 6, but with necessary alterations in the headings.
In the case of produce granted either free of charge or at concession rates to non-right holders for building their houses
destroyed by fire or flood or to a public school or charitable institution, a book adjustment of the estimated value of the
free grants or the concession made to them should be made in the accounts both in the revenue and the expenditure
sides, thus necessitating a provision for both the receipts and the expenditure being made in the Forest Department
Budget. Details of such grants shall be maintained in Form No.6.
Register of free grants of forest...................Dn....................During ........... 20................... produce in the..................
Authority under which granted
Range
Village
No. of right for holders
Purpose for which granted
Description
Produce No. or quantity.
Granted Value
Remarks
Rs.
P.
1
Page 35/89
----- PAGE 36 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
The value of produce removed by right-holders shall not be so adjusted in the accounts.
38.
Return of Stores, tools and Plant. (Form No. 11).
- (i) A return (Form No. 11) of stores, tools & plants will be submitted to the Conservator of Forests by Divisional Forest
Officers once a year on the 1st September.
(ii)
Stores, tools and plant, should ordinarily be classified as follows:-
(a)
Surveying and other instruments.
(b)
Machinery.
(c)
Tools.
(d)
Office and rest-house furniture.
(e)
Tents.
(f)
Building materials, small stores and house fittings.
(g)
Miscellaneous.
39.
Returns of livestock.
- (i) In those divisions where Government elephants or other cattle are kept, returns of livestock together with a
statement of the cost of upkeep and of the work on which they have been employed will be submitted to the Conservator
of Forests in such forms and at such time as may be prescribed by the State Government.
(ii)
Returns of elephants should show name, sex, age, height, value and conditions of the animals.
40.
Seizure and disposal of forest produce, and other property (Form No. 12).
- A return (Form No. 12) of forest produce and other property seized and disposed of during the month in accordance
with the forest law or rules in force will be submitted monthly by Range Officers to the Divisional Officer.This return, will
be returned to the Range Officer after check and noting the fresh entries in the Divisional Copy of the return.
Chapter-V General
41.
Members of the office establishments not to be entrusted with Government money, nor to receive applications or
payments for forest produce.
- (i) Members of the office establishments should not to be entrusted with Government money, except as advances by
cheque on account of the pay of office establishments and for contingent charges which should as a rule, be made
payable only to the head or camp clerk, nor should they be authorised to receive payment for forest produce, but in the
absence of the Divisional Forest Officer from headquarters the head clerk of a Forest Divisional Office may countersign
for or on behalf of the Divisional Forest Officer challans for forest revenue to be deposited into the Treasury by the
purchaser of forest produce or by his agent, provided that the head clerk shall be held responsible for reporting to the
Page 36/89
----- PAGE 37 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
Divisional Forest Officer immediately on his return to the headquarters the challans that he has so countersigned. All
subordinates who have the custody of Government moneys or who deal with the collection of forest revenue should be
made to furnish security in accordance with the rules in force.
(ii)
Applications for forest produce should be received by the Divisional Forest Officers or other officer especially authorised,
and not by the members of the office establishment, when the officer so authorised is not at headquarters, the
application should be sent to him accompanied by the treasury challan, on receipt of which he can issue the necessary
licence.
Note. - The head clerk as a regular disburser will maintain a cash book of his own and will pay all bills at headquarters.
The camp clerk will similarly pay all bills in the camp office and will maintain a cash book of his own. Pay and travelling
allowance bills of Gazetted or non-Gazetted Officers will not be paid by them without the previous pay order of the
Divisional Forest Officer.
42.
Placing of private money in Government Cash Chest prohibited.
- Under no circumstances shall any Forest Officer or subordinate place any private money in his government cash chest.
43.
Defalcation or loss of public money by fraud.
- Whenever any defalcation, or loss of public money or fraud in connection with the revenue from timber or other
forest-produce is discovered, the fact should be immediately reported to the local Government and when the matter has
been fully inquired into, a further and complete report should be submitted to them of the nature and extent of the loss,
showing the errors committed or neglect of Rules by which such loss was rendered possible, and the prospects of
effecting a recovery. (See also Article 29, Civil Account Code.)
44.
Recovery of losses and disciplinary action.
- The following procedure should be followed when losses of public money occur through the negligence or fraud of
individuals:-
(i)
Should the Administrative Authority require the assistance of the audit officer in the investigation of any loss due to
fraud, negligence, financial irregularity etc., he may call on that officer for all vouchers and other documents that may be
relevant to the investigation; and if the investigation is complex and he needs the assistance of an expert audit officer to
unravel it, he should apply forthwith for that assistance to Government who will then arrange with the audit Officer for the
services of an investigating officer.
(ii)
Steps should be taken to ensure that an officer likely to be held responsible for any loss or irregularity which is the
subject of an enquiry, is not inadvertently allowed to retire on pension while the enquiry is in progress. Accordingly when
a pensionable Government servant who is likely to apply for pension is so concerned, the authority investigating the
case should immediately inform both the audit officer who is responsible for reporting on his title to pension and the
authority competent to sanction the pension. It will be the duty of the latter to make a note of the information and to see
that pension is not sanctioned before either a conclusion is arrived at as regards the Government servant's culpability, or
it has been decided by the sanctioning authority that the result of the investigation need not be awaited.
45.
Filling up of cheques forwarded to the Treasury for re-credit in the Treasury Accounts.
- All cheques forwarded to the Treasury for re-credit in that Treasury Accounts should be endorsed as follows under the
signature of the Forest Officer:-"Received payment by transfer credit to Revenue under head of service A. B. Forest
Officer". No such cheque should ever be made payable to any Forest Officer or Treasury Officer by name or by official
designation. (C.F. Note 2 to Article 26, Civil Account Code)
46.
Unusual expenditure.
- Whenever unusual expenditure, i.e., of a novel, doubtful or irregular nature has to be incurred, the sanction of the State
Government must be obtained.
47.
Page 37/89
----- PAGE 38 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
Extent of powers of sanction given in Articles 69 and 70, F. D. Code, 7th Edn.
- It must be distinctly understood that the power of sanction given in Articles 69 and 70, F. D. Code, 7th Edition, must be
exercised within Budget limits; that is, no expenditure must be incurred under any Budget head if the provision made
under such head by competent authority is not sufficient to cover the outlay.
48.
Execution of works requiring sanction on estimate.
- Works requiring sanction on estimate shall not be commenced until the estimate prescribed in Article 70(ii) of the
Forest Department Code, 7th edition, has been sanctioned.
49.
Advances to contractors.
- In accordance with Article 71 of the Forest Department Code. 1913, the following instructions are laid down for
observance in granting advances to contractors. [Vide B. & O. Government Order No. 5300-III-F-102-R., dated
23.7.1913]:-
(1)
Advances to contractors should only be given in exceptional cases when no other arrangements can be made for
carrying on the work.
(2)
Whenever possible no advance should be made exceeding in amount the value of work already completed.
(3)
In exceptional cases, where it is necessary to grant an advance before work is commenced, the Divisional Officer must
satisfy himself that the contractor is reliable and in a solvent state, and must cause the contractor to execute a personal
agreement for the summary recovery of the amount advanced. Wherever possible, a third party should be added as
surety for the amount.
(4)
No advance or advances exceeding an amount to be fixed by the Conservator should be granted to any contractor
without the sanction of the Conservator.
(5)
Divisional Officers will be held personally responsible for all advances to contractors when the amounts advanced can
be shown to have been needlessly or imprudently large or frequent.
Under the provisions contained in clause (4) above, Divisional Forest Officers of the rank of Deputy Conservator of
Forests may grant an advance up to Rs. 500 and other Divisional Forest Officers up to Rs. 250. (See also Rule 161 of
the Bihar and Orissa Account Code.)
49A.
The following procedure should be observed from 1st April 1938 for the accounting and verification of balances of the
advances made to private individuals for demarcating their forests and other advances on account of the original
construction of roads,buildings, wells, etc., which are recoverable from profits in accordance with the terms of the lease
for the management of private forests by Government:-
1. Accounting of advances to and repayment by private individuals for demarcation of forests and for buildings, roads,
wells, etc. - These advance should be drawn by the Conservator of Forest, Bihar, or any other officer authorised by him
in this behalf in the same manner as other miscellaneous expenditure is drawn and charged in the Forest Accounts.
They should be drawn in lump (in Form 111 of Schedule XVIII) quoting the number and date of the particular
Government order sanctioning the advance. In drawing these advances it should be seen that the disbursement is
covered by grant.
2. The amount drawn should be charged to the head "R-Loans and Advances by Provincial Government-Miscellaneous
Loans and Advances-Advances for demarcation of private forests, buildings, etc." in the Forest.
3. When recovery of the advances is effected, the amount representing recovery of the principal should be credited to
the same head in lump while the amount representing recovery of interest will be credited in lump to the head
"XX-Interest on miscellaneous loans and advances". Both these should be shown in the receipt side of the Forest Cash
Accounts.
4. With each month's accounts the Conservator of Forests, Bihar, or the Divisional Forest Officer concerned will transmit
to the Accountant-General, Bihar, a plus minus memo, (in Form No. 80 of Schedule XXV) in which a manuscript head
Page 38/89
----- PAGE 39 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
"Advances F for demarcation of private forests, buildings, etc." should be opened in the column "Nature of advance"
under "Miscellaneous Loans and Advances" and the balances as well as advance and recovery properly exhibited after
due agreement with his account. The Conservator of Forests, Bihar or the officers authorised by him on this behalf
should sign the plus minus memo.
5. Soon after the accounts for March are closed each year the Accountant-General, Bihar, would furnish to the
Conservator and the Divisional Forest Officers concerned a statement showing the amount of the balances from the
previous years, the amount of advances made during the year, the amount of recoveries made, and the balances on the
31st March.This statement would be returned to the Accountant-General, Bihar, by those officers after check with their
books with a certificate of their acceptance of the balances at the close of the financial year shown in the departmental
records against each owner separately. [Finance Department Letters Nos. 2958-F., dated the 31st March, 1938 and
4348-F., dated the 30th May, 1938, vide C.S. No. 148, dated the 30th November 1938].
50.
Cash book of Subordinate Officers.
- The cash book of all disbursing officers subordinate to the Divisional Forest Officer shall contain a detailed record of
their daily transactions and shall be written up daily.
51.
Maintenance of accounts by forest subordinates not in charge of ranges.
- A Divisional Forest Officer may authorise any subordinate officer not in charge of a range to issue permits for petty
sales of forest produce, to collect revenue and issue receipts for same and to receive small advances for payment for
work done. A forest subordinate thus authorised may or may not maintain a cash book for this purpose, but he will
render proper accounts to his Range Officer at suitable intervals for incorporation in the latter's cash book in accordance
with such instructions as may be issued by the [Chief] Conservator of Forests, (vide Appendix XIX).
52.
Suspense transactions.
- All receipts and charges on account of private firms, Government departments, public sector undertakings etc. which
cannot be adjusted at once will be shown under the head "Suspense". Such receipts and charges must not be allowed
to remain unadjusted for more than twelve calendar months.
53.
Pay bills of Gazetted Officers (Form No. 14).
- The pay bills of Gazetted Officers (Form No. 14), duly receipted with stamps attached, when necessary, will
accompany the accounts as vouchers, copies being kept in the Divisional Office.
54.
Permanent establishments (Form No. 15).
- (i) The establishment bills of the permanent staff, in English or vernacular, will be prepared in books (Form No. 15) and
the signature of each recipient will be taken when payment is made, receipt stamps being attached when necessary.
When receipts of persons serving at a distance are obtained on separate abstracts the Divisional Forest Officer will note
in the signature or "Remarks" column of the divisional bill book that the receipts of the incumbents have been obtained
and filed separately.
(ii)
Establishment bills. - In the establishment bills complete lists of the sanctioned scale of establishment will be entered on
the first day of each month; but only amounts actually paid up to the last day of the month, and for which payees;
receipts have been received in the Divisional Office will be charged in the cash book. Amounts remaining unpaid will
merely be entered in the appropriate column in red ink and left out of the total for each range or forest unit to be posted
in column 8.
55.
Absentee Statement.
- The State Government having declared that the Subordinate Forest and Office establishments of the several Forest
divisions with the exception of Forest Guards should be treated as on a provincial scale for purposes of audit, the
Accountant-General has introduced the forms of Absentee statements prescribed in Article 66 of Civil Account Code.
(See Note to Article 54 of Forest Account Code.)
56.
Page 39/89
----- PAGE 40 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
Vouchers for pay of permanent establishments.
- The vouchers for the pay of permanent non-gazetted establishments to accompany the cash accounts will be abstracts
from the establishment bill book signed by the Divisional Officer. In these vouchers the names of persons in inferior
service need not be given, but the number and designation of posts in each grade on different rates of pay must always
be specified. (See Supplementary Rules 35 of Bihar and Orissa Account Code.)
57.
Travelling allowance bills (Form No. 16 & 17).
- (i) The travelling allowance bills of Gazetted Officers will be prepared in standard Form T.O. Form No. 2 of the Bihar
and Orissa Account Code vide Manual Form No. 16.)
(ii)
The travelling allowance bills (Form No. 17) of Non-Gazetted Officers must be supported by journey receipts which will
be written up in the prescribed form.
(iii)
Hours of Journeys should be quoted in the Bills-
(a)
when for an absence from headquarters of not more than two consecutive days daily allowance is claimed for two days;
(b)
when mileage or actual expenses, in lieu thereof are claimed;
(c)
when both railway or steamer fare and daily allowance are claimed in respect of a journey by rail or steamer immediately
preceded or followed by journey by road or by a halt.
(iv)
When long journeys by road are undertaken or where journeys by road are done between points which are connected
by Railway an explanation should be submitted alongwith the travelling allowance bill.
(v)
The travelling allowance bills will be submitted with the monthly accounts as vouchers. The travelling allowance bills of
the Chief Conservator of Forests may be paid without counter signature and those of other Forest officers including the
Conservators will be counter signed previous to payment by the officer to whom powers have been delegated by
Government for counter signature of travelling allowance bills. The local Government may delegate to Divisional Forest
Officers the power of counter signing the travelling allowance bills of members of the executive, protective and office
staff serving under him.
Note 1. - The number of miles travelled should be entered in all cases of journeys by road or by boat.
Note 2. - Permanent travelling, conveyance, and horse allowances should be drawn along with the pay of the officer and
not on travelling allowance bills.
Note 3. - When the first item of travelling allowance to any officer is a halt the date of commencement of that halt should
be stated in the "Remarks" column.
Note 4. - Whenever daily allowance for more than ten days of a halt at one place is drawn by any officer, a certificate
should be given on the travelling allowance bill to the effect that camp equipage was maintained during the whole period
of the halt.
(vi)
The bills of Forest Officers not under the control of the Conservator will be countersigned by such officer as the local
Government or other chief local authority may direct.
(vii)
Divisional Officers must countersign all the travelling allowance bills of their officers before submitting them to the
Conservator.
(viii)
The officer who countersigns travelling allowance bills must satisfy himself that the charges are justified by the
circumstances of the case.
58.
Claim for arrear travelling allowance.
- Charges on account of travelling allowance should be billed for during the month in which they are incurred or during
Page 40/89
----- PAGE 41 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
the following month. No claim for arrear travelling allowance bills should be admitted without satisfactory reason for the
delay unless accompanied by a certificate given by the Divisional Forest Officer that the amount claimed was not drawn
in any previous occasion. In no cases should bills which have been allowed to remain unpaid for more than two months
be paid without the sanction of the Conservator.
Fixed T.A. - The fixed monthly Travelling Allowance sanctioned for Forest Ranger and Foresters which was sanctioned
in Revenue Department letter No. 188R, dated 16th January, 1956 has been raised as follows (Vide letter No. A/F-9 (D
020/68-2475 dated 9th July, 1968 of the Government of Bihar, Forest Department).
Forest Rangers              - Rs. 65/- (Sixty five monthly),
Foresters                        - Rs. 40/- (Forty monthly).
Subject to conditions laid down in Government No. C/F-1 (B) C165/57-26 R, dated 3rd January, 1958 and No. C/F
1062/55-188 R, dated 16th/17th January, 1956 which together with Letter No. 2474 quoted above are reproduced in
App. XV.
59.
Vouchers for travelling allowances.
- The vouchers for charges on account of travelling allowances will be the Original bills countersigned by the [Chief]
Conservator or by the officer duly authorised by the State Government and receipted by the payees.
60.
Revenue Remittances to treasuries.
- All entries in the cash book of "remittances of revenue to treasuries" will be supported by vouchers, in the Treasury
challan or advice list form. The name of the treasury and the treasury number and date of each challan or advice list will
invariably be entered in the cash book in the column of "Particulars"; and when revenue is remitted to a sub-treasury or
tahsil the name of the district treasury to which it is subordinate must also be given.
61.
Treasury Challan.
- (i) Every challan or advice list will be examined and initialled by the Divisional Forest Officer who must satisfy himself
that it bears the Accountant's and the Treasurer's signatures, and if the sum acknowledged is Rs. 500 or more, the
Treasury Officer's signature also. Challans for sums paid by cheques in favour of the Treasury Officer will not be signed
by the Treasurer; the second signature on such challan for sums under Rs. 500 will be that of the person who may have
been nominated to that duty by the district officer. [See also Article 5, Civil Account Code].
(ii)
The following particulars will be given in English on the back of each vernacular challan or advice list:-
1. Name of sub-treasury or tahsil.
2. Amount acknowledged.
3. Number and date of Treasury Officer's receipt.
4. By what Forest Officer remitted.
62.
Vouchers.
- (i) All payments must be supported by vouchers in the following forms:-
Pay of permanent or temporary establishment
...
Form Nos. 14-15
Travelling allowance bill
...
Form Nos. 16-17
Cash remittance to treasuries
...
Treasurychallanor advice list
Revenue derived from supplies to public departments
...
From No. 9 of F. A. Code
Daily labour form
Page 41/89
----- PAGE 42 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
...
Form No. 10 of F. A. Code
All other payments
...
Form No. 11 of F.A. Code or post office receipt with inland
money order acknowledgement.
(ii)
All vouchers for payments including advances, except treasury challan or advice lists and acknowledgements of transfer
to the departments must bear the dates of payment, and they must be passed for payment, in words as well as in
figures, by the Divisional Officers, who thereby assume the responsibility for the charge.
(iii)
Disbursement certificates required on all vouchers.
(iv)
When an Officer who does not belong to the Forest Department is in charge of a divisional or district Forest Office, he
should sign the contingent bill of the Office once only. A second signature on every contingent bill as countersigning
Officer, is not necessary in such a case.
(v)
All vernacular accounts must be accompanied by abstracts in English, and the needful particulars will be entered in
English on all vernacular vouchers and signed by the Divisional Officer when they are forwarded for audit in support of
charges entered in the divisional monthly accounts list.
63.
Transaction with public departments.
- (i) Revenue derived from sales to public departments will be adjusted by book transfer. A statement (Form No. 9,
Forest Account Code) in triplicate will be sent to the officer to whom the produce has been supplied; he will sign and
return the original which will then be used as a voucher (Vide Rule 121).
(ii)
A similar procedure will be followed in the case of payments to other departments. Bills or price invoices received from a
supplying department should be at once adjusted in the cash book by credit to the department concerned, and by debit
to the proper budget sub head, the duplicate bill or invoice, duly receipted being promptly returned.
(iii)
The departmental number and date of each bill or invoice for supplies received from another department, and the date of
acceptance of each bill for timber etc. supplied to another department, will invariably be quoted in the entries in the
divisional cash accounts.
Attention is invited in this connection to the Auditor-General's Directions under Section 168 of the Government of India
Act, 1935, to regulate the conditions under which a department for a Government may make charges for services
rendered or articles supplied by it. Relevant extracts from these directions are reproduced below:-
II. - Adjustments with outside bodies
4. Adjustments with outside bodies. - Payment shall be required in all cases where a department of a Government
renders service or makes supplies to a non-Government body or institution or to a separate fund constituted as such
inside or outside the public Account, unless the Government by general or special order gives directions to the contrary.
Relief in respect of payment for services or supplies given to any body or fund, should ordinarily be given through a
grant-in aid rather than by remission of dues.
III. - Inter-Departmental Adjustments
5. For purpose of inter-departmental payments, the departments of a Government shall be divided into service
Departments and Commercial Departments according to the following principles: -
A. Service Departments. - These are constituted for the discharge of those functions which either (a) are inseparable
from, and form part of the idea of Government or (b) are necessary to, and form part of the general conduct of the
business of Government.
Examples of the first class are-
The departments of Administration of Justice, Jails and Convict Settlements Police, Education, Medical, Public Health,
Forest, Defence.
Page 42/89
----- PAGE 43 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
Examples of the second class are-
the departments of Survey, Government Printing, Stationery Public Works (Buildings and Roads), Indian Stores
Department.
B. Commercial Departments or undertakings. - These are maintained mainly for the purposes of rendering services, or
providing supplies of certain special kinds, on payment for the services rendered or for the Articles supplied. They
perform functions which are not necessarily Government functions. They are required to work to a financial result
determined through accounts maintained on Commercial Principles.
Note. - Government has the power in respect of these directions to decide whether a particular department or particular
activities of a department shall be regarded as a commercial department or undertaking. A list of departments and
undertakings at present recognised by Government as Commercial is given below:-
List of departments and undertakings at present recognised by Government as Commercial
(The list does not purport to be exhaustive and may be modified by Government where necessary in consultation with
the Accountant-General.)
Bihar Government
Irrigation, Navigation, Embankment and Drainage Works for which capital and revenue accounts are kept, including the
Irrigation Department Workshop at Dehri.
6. Save as expressly provided by those directions, a service department shall not make charges against another
department for services or supplies which fall within the class or duties for which the former department is constituted: -
The following exceptions to the above direction have been authorised:-
(a)
The Forest Department may charge any other department for vegetable, animal or mineral products extracted from a
forest area.
(b)
Payment must ordinarily be made for convict labour as in the case of that supplied to the Public Works and other
departments of Government but except at Port Blair, no charge is made for convict labour in the case of works
under-taken by the Public Works Department which are treated as Jail Works.
(c)
The cost of additional Police Guards supplied to an irrigation or other project while under construction, may be charged
to the project concerned.
7. A commercial department or undertaking shall ordinarily charge and be charged for any supplies and services made
or rendered to, or by, other departments of Government.
This direction may be applied to particular units or particular activities of any department even though the department as
a whole may not be commercial department. Such a unit or activity shall ordinarily charge for services or its supplies to,
and may likewise be charged by either the department of which it forms a part or any other department.
Note 1. - Save as otherwise provided in these directions, service rendered by a Service Department falling under clause
A(a) of paragraph 5 in the normal charge of it functions shall not be regarded as service rendered for the purpose of the
above directions.
Note 2. - The supply of residential accommodation by one department to the employees of another shall not, for the
purpose of these directions, be held to constitute a service rendered. In all such cases, the rent charged for residential
accommodation will be the rent recoverable under the rules for the time being in force from the persons actually using
such accommodation.
8. Where one department makes payment or renders service as an "agent of" another department of the same
Government the principal department may, subject to the limit of Rs. 50, be charged with the expenditure incurred on its
behalf by the agent department.
Note 1. - The cost of land acquired by a civil department on behalf of the Public Works Department is chargeable in the
accounts of the latter as part of the cost of the works for which the land is taken up; but when land is taken up for two or
more service departments conjointly, the cost is wholly debitable to the department for which the major portion of
expenditure was incurred, unless there are special reasons to the contrary.
Note 2. - When a special officer is employed for the acquisition of land for any department, the expenditure on pay,
allowance, etc., of the special officer and his establishment and any expenditure on contingencies is chargeable to the
department as part of the cost of land. When the land is taken up by a civil officer, not specially employed for the work,
Page 43/89
----- PAGE 44 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
only special charges incurred in connection with the acquisition of the land on establishment, contingencies, etc, are
borne by the department for which the land is acquired.
9. Without prejudice to the general principle contained in paragraph 6, the Defence Services shall, in respect of
inter-departmental transactions, charge and be charged for services rendered and supplies made to or by other
departments, unless in particular cases or classes of cases, Government in consultation with the Auditor-General have
decided that the inter-departmental adjustment would be unsuitable and undesirable.
Note. - The Defence Services are not required to pay rent for office accommodation supplied by the Public Works
Department in Central buildings in any station in India; nor is rent charged for buildings of the Defence Services in any
station in India occupied by departments of the Central Government other than those falling under clause B of paragraph
5.
10. A branch of a service department performing duties supplementary to the main functions of the department and
intended to render particular services on payment, may levy charges in respect of the work for which it has been
constituted.
Examples
Jail manufacture, Survey map-publishing, Printing (Publishing Department), Mint (Miscellaneous Services other than
coinage).
11. A branch of a department constituted for the subsidiary service of that department, but employed to render similar
service to another department, may charge that other department, e.g. -
Workshops of a department, Mathematical Instrument Office, Dockyards.
12. A regularly organised store branch of a department should ordinarily charge any other department for supplies
made; but petty and casual supplies of stores may, if the supplying department consents, be made without payment.
13. Notwithstanding anything contained in these directions, a Government may for special reasons which shall be
recorded and communicated to the Accountant-General, permit inter-departmental adjustment in any case where such
adjustment may be considered necessary in the interests of economy or of departmental control of expenditure.
Note. - "Accountant-General" means the head of an office of accounts keeping the accounts of the Central (or Federal)
Government or of a province, by whatever designation he may be called".
2. District boards, municipalities and other local bodies, who are liable in the ordinary course to pay for any articles
supplied to them from the forests controlled by the Forest Department are not exempted from payment. There is,
however, no objection to making free grants of stone, road metal and other forest produce from Government forests
under the control of the Forest Department to district boards where their roads pass through and are useful to
Government forests. Such grant should be made by a formal grant which must pass through the accounts of the Forest
Department and necessary provision for it should be made in the forest budget. The Conservator of Forests is
authorised to make such grants to a value not exceeding Rs. 250 in any one case subject to the limit of Rs. 1,000 a year
for all cases taken together. [Government Letter No. 474-IIIF-139-R., dated the 6th June 1936, Government of Bihar,
Revenue Department, Letter No. 5139-R.-IIIF-80, dated the 7th July, 1939. vide C.S. No. 87, dated the 10th January,
1940].
64.
Entries in the cash book of cheques drawn.
- The amounts of Cheques drawn will be entered in the cash book at once, and the expenditure for which the cheques
are drawn will be charged under appropriate heads of service or account.
65.
Forms to be rendered to the Conservator.
- On the same day on which the accounts are sent to the Accountant General, Classified Abstracts of Revenue and
Expenditure (Form No. 14, Forest Account Code) will be submitted to the Conservator by Divisional Officers, the items in
these classified abstracts being entered in such detail as the Conservator may direct; and monthly returns in Forms Nos.
5 and 25 will be submitted to the Conservator.
66.
Scrutiny of Divisional Accounts.
- The monthly returns received from Divisional Officers will be scrutinized in the Conservator's Office and the Divisional
Forest Officers addressed regarding any discrepancies which may be noticed.
67.
Page 44/89
----- PAGE 45 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
Intimation of sanction (Form No. 26).
- A monthly return in Form No. 26 will be sent by the Conservator to the Accountant-General of all sanctions of works in
accordance with Article 48 of Forest Account Code.
All sanctions to works accorded by the Divisional Forest Officers will also be communicated by them to the Accountant
General in a monthly statement in Form No. 26 (cf. Financial Rule 307 of B. & O. Account Code).
68.
Comparative Statement of Revenue and Expenditure (Form No. 27).
- A Comparative statement of revenue and expenditure should be submitted as early as possible in January, February
and March in Form No. 27 in order that savings towards the close of the year in certain divisions may be utilised in
others so that the budget figures sanctioned by Government may be worked upto.
69.
[Hints for checking monthly accounts in Divisional Offices.]
[See also Appendix XIX.]
- The principal duty of the Accounts Branch of Divisional Forest Office is the incorporation of Range Accounts into one
consolidated account which is submitted to the Accountant General. The Divisional Officer is required to see that such
subsidiary accounts are properly incorporated. Although it is desirable in order to avoid objections to see that the various
forms submitted agree with each of the, this point is not of great importance. The Divisional Officer must remember,
however that as the Accountant-General's Office does not see the Range Accounts, the responsibility for their proper
incorporation and check rests entirely with him.
(2)
The Divisional Cash Book as submitted to the Accountant General as far as it concerns Range Accounts should be
shown into four heads-
(a)
Advances on account of expenditure by disbursers.
(b)
Recoveries of these advances by expenditure on work done by Range Officers, etc.
(c)
Revenue collected by Range Officers.
(d)
Revenue remitted by Range Officers.
(3)
The Divisional Office Accountant should be required to balance each Range Account when received by endorsing the
following simple abstract giving lump sum totals on each Range Cash Book:-
Dr.
Cr.
Opening balance on 1st
Expenditure charged off on work done.
Revenue (if any) receive.
Revenue (if any) remitted.
Advances received from Divisional Office Recoveries of excess
payments if any
Closing balance on 31st
If these are totalled for all Ranges and the Divisional headquarters accounts added the result should agree with Form
No. 6, Forest Account Code, as submitted to Accountant-General, and the Accountant should invariably exhibit this
check to the Divisional Officer.
(4)
The Range Accounts should also be compared with the abstracts of entries in the Contractor's and Disburser's Ledger.
(The Office Accountant may be entrusted to see that the abstract submitted to the Accountant General through the
Conservator is a true copy of the entries in the Ledger itself, which is rather too bulky to send into camp.) If the range
Accounts disagree with the entries in the Ledger Abstract, the Accountant must be called upon to explain, and the
Range Officer at once addressed to make his accounts agree (should any sum, for instance, be disallowed).
Page 45/89
----- PAGE 46 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
(5)
Check of revenue mainly entail the checking of payments due by lessees or purchasers who are paying for forest
produce by instalments, and Divisional Officers should either keep up themselves or require their Accountant to send
them every month the form in which such instalments are originally written up and subsequent payments entered as
they are shown from time to time. From this, the Divisional Forest Officer will become aware of instalments which
become overdue and can take action for their recovery. Other items include the realisation of compensation for forest
offences. This is usually dealt with by the Accountant, who should be responsible that outstandings are realised without
undue delay. These items do not ordinarily come to the notice of the Accountant General.
(6)
Copies of the Range Accounts submitted to the Head office should occasionally be compared with the originals in
Range Offices when opportunity occurs. Cases have been known in which such copies have been altered by clerks at
headquarter without intimation having been given to the Ranger concerned. Any discrepancy should of course be
severely dealt with as it gives a loop hole for fraud. All documents should be carefully scrutinized for erasures.
(7)
As regards check of Subsidiary Forms required by the certificate at the foot of the Cash Book, although any discrepancy
would soon be brought to notice in the Accountant General's audit it is just as well to see that the following items in the
Divisional Cash Book agree with the registers concerned, namely:-
(a)
"To cheques drawn":-
Figures should agree with those in column 4 of the Register of Cheques Form No. 4, Forest Account Code (Schedule
Form No. 2).
(b)
"By amount of advances made, etc."-
Figures should agree with totals of Column 10 of Ledger Abstract. Form No.13, Forest Account Code (Schedule Form
No. 4).
(c)
"To recoveries from disbursers, etc."-
Figures should agree with totals of column 6 of Ledger Abstract (Form No. 8F. A. Code).
(d)
"By expenditure charged, etc."-
Figures should agree with totals Form No. 14, Forest Account Code-expenditure. (116-Schedule XVIII)-
(e)
"To revenue received":-
Figures should agree with totals of Form No. 14, Forest Account Code-Revenue (116-Schedule XVIII)-
(f)
"By revenue paid into Treasuries":-
Figures should agree with totals of Schedule of Remittances (Form No. 6 of F.A. Code).
Note. - It frequently happens, however, that owing to dates of payment in Range Accounts not agreeing with those in
Treasuries, a memorandum of adjustments has to be drawn up. This should be checked with accounts of previous
month.
The following forms should also be compared for purposes of agreement. Total of Form No. 14, (Forest Account Code)
(Form No. 116, Schedule XVIII) Revenue, should equal total of figures in Manual From No. 4 (Revenue received from
purchasers) plus total of Manual Form No. 3, (No. 21), (Depot sales account) plus total of receipts under V
(Miscellaneous).
It is hardly necessary to add that a Divisional Forest Officer should keep control of expenditure and see, as far as
possible, that work charged for has been duly executed which can only, however, be done by personal inspection while
on tour.
Neglect of the following points when preparing Form No. 14 (116 Schedule XVIII) Expenditure (Forest Account Code)
often leads to unnecessary correspondence:-
(a)
Sufficient details should be given in column 2 to enable the charges to be at once understood and checked.
Page 46/89
----- PAGE 47 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
(b)
The authority for charges lying outside the power of the sanction of the officers submitting the accounts should invariably
be quoted in the "Remarks" column.
(c)
Whenever expenditure on any work is spread over two or more months, the total previous expenditure on such work
should be noted in the "Remarks" column before beginning to enter the items expended during the month.
(d)
Whenever in the case of departmental operations the expenditure on a particular lot of produce is charged in a month
subsequent to that in which this particular produce was brought on to Form No. 2 of this Manual a reference to this latter
month should be made in the "Remarks" column, in no case should charges be made for produce which has not yet
been brought on to Form No. 2 of this Manual.
(e)
Final adjustment of expenditure on construction of buildings, roads, etc. should not be made except on receipt of a
satisfactory completion report signed by the Range Officer after personal inspection of the work.
(f)
If any produce is entered in Form No. 2 of this Manual as received during the month, the expenditure on account of
which cannot for some valid reason be charged off in the same month, such reason will be briefly recorded in the
"Remarks" column against the entry in question, the month in which it will appear being at the same time stated.
The comparison between the Range Accounts and the Divisional Accounts in which they are incorporated should, if
possible, be made before the submission of latter to the Accountant General. The latter however, must not be unduly
delayed for this purpose and there is no reason why this comparison should not take place subsequently and errors, if
any, rectified by adjustments in the following month. Want of time will not be held as an excuse for neglect on the part of
the Divisional Forest Officer to properly scrutinise the accounts work in his office.
69A.
Bihar Rules for Licenses for the Hunting of Elephants, 1937.
- (Revenue Department Notification Nos. 2717-R., dated the 24th March, 1938, 913-IIIF-29-R., dated the 20th February
1937, 1716-IIIF-20-R., dated the 8th April, 1937 and 3142-IIIF-94-R., dated the 12th April, 1938). - (1) In exercise of the
powers conferred by Section 1 of the Elephants' Preservation Act, 1879 (Act VI of 1879), the Governor of Bihar is
pleased to extend the said Act to the districts of Singhbum, Manbhum, Palamau and Ranchi.
(2)
In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 6 of the Elephants' Preservation Act, 1879 (Act VI of 1879), the Governor
of Bihar is pleased to make the following Rules:-
1.
(1)
These Rules may be called "The Bihar Rules for Licenses for the Hunting of Elephants, 1937".
(2)
They shall apply to the districts of Singhbhum, Manbhum, Palamau and Ranchi.
2. In these Rules -
(a)
"Deputy Commissioner" means the Deputy Commissioner of the district comprising the area in respect of which a
license is applied for, granted or renewed under these Rules.
(b)
"form" means a form appended to these Rules.
(c)
"license-holder" means a person who holds a subsisting license granted or renewed under these Rules.
3.
(1)
Every application for a license to capture wild elephants or for the renewal of such a license, shall be made to the
Deputy Commissioner and the Deputy Commissioner may with the sanction of the Commissioner of the Chota Nagpur
Division grant to any person applying for the same a license in form A or renew a license already granted to such
person.
Page 47/89
----- PAGE 48 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
Every license granted or renewed under this sub-rule shall be subject to the conditions laid down therein.
(2)
The fee payable on the grant or renewal of such a license shall be one hundred rupees.
4. A license shall continue in force from the 1st October of the year in which it is granted, until the 31st March following.
5. A holder of a license in form A shall not -
(a)
capture wild elephants except in accordance with the conditions of his license, or
(b)
transfer in any manner his rights under his license.
6. A holder of license in form A shall for every elephant captured by him or accidentally killed in an attempt to capture,
pay to the Government, in such manner as the Deputy Commissioner may from time to time direct, a fee of Rs. 100.
7. A holder of a license in form A shall not remove outside the boundaries of the area covered by his license any
elephant captured by him or the tusks of an elephant killed in an attempt to capture unless he has -
(a)
obtained a written permit to do so from the Deputy Commissioner or some other officer appointed by the Deputy
Commissioner in that behalf; and
(b)
paid the fees required to be paid by Rule 6.
8. The Deputy Commissioner may cancel any license in Form A if the holder thereof has committed a breach of any of
these rules.
9.
(1)
When the destruction of a particular elephant or elephants is urgently required in the interests of the public safety on
account of widespread danger to cultivation, forests or other property, the Deputy Commissioner may, with the
permission of the Commissioner of the Chota Nagpur Division, grant a license in form B for the destruction of such
elephant or elephants. Such license may, if the Commissioner so directs, be subject to the conditions that the tusk of
any elephant or elephants if killed shall be the property of Government and shall be made over to the Deputy
Commissioner.
(2)
Unless the Commissioner otherwise directs a fee of Rs. 100 shall be paid for each elephant killed under a license in
Form B.
Form A
License For The Capture of Elephants within the in the District of..............
(Seal and signature of the Deputy Commissioner)
To........................................................................................
Son of..........................................................................
Resident of..................................................................
The right to capture elephants for one year in Block no. .......................
North-East-South-West-
Boundaries of Block.
Name of Block................
District of..................
Province of........... the boundaries of which are specified
in the margin, is granted to you on the following conditions:-
I. That you pay Rs. 100 for this license.
II. That you pay Rs. 100 in respect of every elephant captured by you.
III. That you shall capture or attempt to capture elephants only between the 1st October and the 31st of March and at no
other time.
IV. That you capture or attempt to capture elephants yourself and do not transfer in any manner your rights under this
license.
V. That you shall not capture or attempt to capture elephants by means of pit-falls.
Page 48/89
----- PAGE 49 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
VI. That you report in writing on the 1st of each month to the officer granting this license or to any other official as you
may be directed, in the form herewith supplied to you, the capture or death in attempt to capture or death after capture,
of every elephant so captured or dying during the preceding month.
VII. That you obtain a written permit, and pay the royalty prescribed in clause II, before removing beyond the boundaries
specified in the margin any captured elephant or the tusk of any elephant killed.
VIII. That you shall not cause any unnecessary damage to any forest, set fire to any jungle or cause injury or
unnecessary annoyance to any jungle tribes or cultivators residing within the boundaries specified in the margin or in the
neighbourhood thereof.
IX. (a) That before you commence the construction of any stockades in a Reserved or Protected forest you shall submit
for the approval of the Divisional Forest Officer a list of the proposed sites of the stockades properly described,
preferably with the aid of a map.
(b)
That before you commence such construction in a forest not under the management of the Forest Department you shall
similarly submit a list of the proposed sites for the approval of the Deputy Commissioner.
X. That the Divisional Forest Officer or the Deputy Commissioner, as the case may be, shall have the right to forbid the
erection of a stockade in a site not approved by him.
XI. That after the site of the stockade has been chosen and approved by the Divisional Forest Officer he shall make an
estimate of the value of the timber which will be destroyed in the building and establishing of the stockade and that you
shall pay for such timber at rates to be fixed by the Divisional Forest Officer and that you shall be entitled to use any
such timber in the building of the stockade. This condition and conditions XII, XIII and XIV shall apply only to forests
managed by the Forest Department.
XII. That if in addition to the timber purchased on the site of the stockade you require other timber the Divisional Forest
Officer shall arrange for its felling an a site convenient to the stockade and you shall pay the Divisional Forest Officer for
such timber at rates to be fixed by the Divisional Forest Officer.
XIII. That should you intentionally destroy any elephant you will be proceeded against under the Elephants' Preservation
Act VI of 1879.
XIV. That should you, in contravention of clause VI, fail or neglect to report capture, or killing in the attempt to capture or
death after capture of any elephant the Deputy Commissioner may order that you shall pay to Government a sum which
may extend to Rs. 3,000 for each elephant the killing or the capture or death of which has not been reported. The
amount shall be recoverable as a public demand under item 9 of Schedule I to the Bihar and Orissa Public Demands
Recovery Act.
XV. That you shall not-
(a)
fell any timber except in such places and to such extent as has been previously approved by the Divisional Forest
Officer or the Deputy Commissioner;
(b)
interfere with any operations of the Forest Department or any forest contractor in Government forests.
XVI. That should you commit any breach of any of the conditions of this license, the license may, at the discretion of the
Deputy Commissioner, be cancelled, and any, or all, of the elephants captured by you forfeited to Government; this
penalty to be in addition to any other punishment or penalty to which you may be liable under any provision of the law in
force at the time or any rule duly made in exercise of any authority conferred by law.
I,............, son of...........resident of............... to whom the license no..............has been granted, do hereby acknowledge
and declare that all the conditions of this license have been explained to me, and that I have understood the same, and
that I accept the license subject to all the conditions therein contained. And I further declare and covenant that I will not
question or dispute the execution against my property of any penalty that may be imposed upon me under clauses XIV,
XV and XVI for any breach of the conditions of this license.
Licensee's signature.
All the conditions of this license were thoroughly explained to..............in our presence, and he also in our presence
executed and signed the above covenant.
Three witnesses.
1. ...............................................
Page 49/89
----- PAGE 50 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
2. ...............................................
3. ...............................................
Form B
License For the Shooting of Elephants within the.....................................In the District of.........................................
(Seal and signature of the Deputy Commissioner.)
Permission is hereby granted to you...........................................son of................................................resident
of..................to shoot the elephant(s) described below during the period..........................to......................in
North-East-South-West-
Boundaries of Block or locality
Name of Block................
District of..................
Province of........... the boundaries of which are specified
in the margin, is granted to you on the following conditions:-
Description of elephant(s) as far as it can be given-
I. That in shooting the elephant you shall use no weapon less in power or in bore than a 0.400 cordite or a 0.577 black
power.
II. That in reserved forests you shall comply with such Rules and Regulations of the Bihar Government Reserved Forest
Shooting Rules, 1930, published under Notification No. 1066-IIIF-5-R.R., dated the 14th October 1930, in so far as they
are not inconsistent with the provisions of this license.
III. That you shall pay a fee of Rs. 100 for each elephant killed under this license.
(To be crossed out if the Commissioner directs that no fee shall be payable.)
IV. That the tusks of any elephant killed under this license shall be the property of Government and shall be made over
to the Deputy Commissioner.
(To be crossed out if the Commissioner so directs.)
Here enter number.
I, ................... son of ..............., resident of, ............., to whom the license no..................has been granted, do hereby
acknowledge and declare that all the conditions of this license have been explained to me, and that I have understood
the same, and that I accept the license subject to all the conditions therein contained.
Licensee's signature.
All the conditions of this license were thoroughly explained to.............in our presence and he also in our presence
executed and signed the above covenant.
Three Witnesses:
1. ...............................................
2. ...............................................
3. ...............................................
Station.............
Form C
Statement for the Month of......
Showing the number of elephants captured by..............in accordance with a licence granted under the Elephants'
Preservation Act, 1879 (VI of 1879) by.........on the..........day of.......
Date of capture.
Number of elephants captured alive.
Number of elephants that died during capture.
Number of elephants sold out of those entered in
column 2.
Number of elephants that died out of those
entered in column 2.
Number remaining at the end of the month, i.e.,
column 2- columns 4 and 5.
Total number remaining at the end of proceeding
month.
Page 50/89
----- PAGE 51 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
Total of columns 6 and 7.
Remarks.
Male.
Female.
Male.
Female.
Male.
Female.
Male.
Female.
Male.
Female.
Male.
Female.
Male.
Female.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
[C.S. No. 88, dated the 10th January 1940.]
70.
Rules regulating the grant of licenses to capture elephants in Angul.
- [In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 6 of the Elephants Preservation Act, 1879 (Act VI of 1879), the
Government of Bihar and Orissa are pleased to make the following Rules for regulating the grant and renewal of
licenses under the said Act within the Sadr subdivision of the district of Angul, the fees to be charged on such grant and
renewal, the time during which such licences shall continue in force and the conditions on which they shall be granted:-]
[Notification No. 3145-P., dated 1st April, 1932 and Notification No. 3616-RR. dated 7th October, 1933 and Notification
No. 1433-P., dated 15th February, 1934 and Notification No. 76-R., dated 5th January, 1935.]
(1)
Every application fora license to kill or to capture or to kill and capture wild elephants, or for a renewal of such a license,
shall be made to the Deputy Commissioner of Angul and may be granted by him with the sanction of the Commissioner
of the Orissa Division. The fee payable on the grant or renewal of such license shall be one hundred rupees:
Provided that in special cases where the destruction of an elephant is urgently required in the interest of the public
safety, the Deputy Commissioner may, with the permission of the Commissioner of the Orissa Division, issue a license
for the destruction of such elephant, either free of charge or subject to the condition that the tusks of such elephant killed
shall be the property of Government and shall be made over to the Deputy Commissioner of Angul.
(2)
A license shall not be granted for more than six months from the date of issue and shall hold good only within the
boundaries therein specified.
(3)
The holder of a license shall be at liberty to kill or to capture, or to kill and capture wild elephants himself or by his
agents and shall not be allowed to sell or transfer his rights under the said licence.
(4)
For every elephant captured by or on behalf of the licence-holder and for every elephant killed the license-holder shall
pay to the Government in such manner as the Deputy Commissioner of Angul may from time to time direct the sum of
Page 51/89
----- PAGE 52 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
Rs. 100 by way of royalty:
Provided that no royalty shall be payable for an elephant killed under a licence issued in accordance with the proviso to
Rule (1).
(5)
The license-holder shall be at liberty to capture or kill elephants in any manner except in pits.
(6)
The license-holder shall be bound to report in writing on the first day of each month to the Deputy Commissioner of
Angul or to any other officer appointed by the said Deputy Commissioner in that behalf in such form as may be
prescribed the capture or death during capture or otherwise of every elephant which has been captured or has died
during capture or has been killed in the preceding month. In the event of failure to report any such capture or death the
holder of the license shall forfeit to Government the sum of Rs. 3,000 for each elephant the capture or death of which he
shall have omitted to report.
(7)
The license-holder shall obtain a written permit from the Deputy Commissioner of Angul or any officer appointed by him
in that behalf and shall, save as provided in the proviso to Rule (4), pay the royalty prescribed in the said Rule (4) before
removing outside the boundaries of the area covered by the license any recently captured elephant or the tusks of an
elephant killed.
(8)
No stockade shall be built in any teak forest, no valuable timber shall be felled and no jungle shall be set fire to by any
license-holder or his agent neither shall they be at liberty to cause injury or unnecessary annoyance to any jungle tribes
or cultivators residing in the neighbourhood nor to interfere with any operations of the Forest Department or of any forest
contractor. All timber felled and used in the construction of the stockade shall be paid for by the license-holder at the full
rates in force in the Reserved Forests in the district of Angul and if the timber required for the purpose is to be taken
from the Protected Forests or from the Reserved Forests in that district the previous sanction of the Deputy
Commissioner or the Divisional Forest Officer as the case may be must be obtained.
(9)
The license shall be liable to be withdrawn by order of the Deputy Commissioner of Angul on breach of any of the above
Rules.
71.
[ Rules regulating the grant of licenses to capture elephants in Cuttack, Puri and Balasore districts.]
[Notification No. 687-IIIF-131/35-R., dated the 22nd January 1936.]
- In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 6 of the Elephants Preservation Act, 1879 (Act VI of 1879), and in
supersession of ail previous Rules on the subject in force at the date of this notification in the areas hereinafter
mentioned the Government of Bihar and Orissa are pleased to make the following Rules for regulating the grant and
renewal of licenses under the said Act within Killah Sukindah in the district of Cuttack, within the subdivision of Khurda in
the district of Puri and within the police-stations of Banth in the Bhadrak subdivision and Khaira in the Sadr subdivision
and certain [villages as specified in Notification No. 62-IIIF-315-R., dated the 3rd January 1936]
[See page 377.]
, in the police-station Soro in the Sadr subdivision of the district of Balasore, the fees to be charged on such grant and
renewal and the time during which licences shall continue in force.
1. In these Rules -
(a)
"Collector" means the Collector of the district comprising the area in respect of which a licence is applied for, granted or
renewed under these Rules;
(b)
"licence-holder" means a person who holds a subsisting licence granted or renewed under these Rules.
2.
(1)
Every application for a licence to kill or to capture or to kill and capture wild elephants or for the renewal of such a
licence, shall be made to the Collector and may, with the sanction of the Commissioner of Orissa Division, be granted by
him in Form A appended to these Rules and subject to the conditions laid down therein.
Page 52/89
----- PAGE 53 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
(2)
The fee payable on the grant or renewal of such a licence shall be one hundred rupees:
Provided that in special cases where the destruction of an elephant is urgently required in the interests of the public
safety the Collector may, with the permission of the Commissioner of the Orissa Division, grant a licence for the
destruction of such elephant either free of charge or subject to the condition that the tusks of such elephant, if killed,
shall be the property of Government and shall be made over to the Collector.
3. A licence shall continue in force from the 1st October of the year in which it is granted, until the 31st March following
and shall be valid only within the boundaries specified in the licence.
4.
(1)
A licence-holder shall be at liberty to kill or to capture, or to kill and capture as the case may be, wild elephants.
(2)
A licence-holder shall not transfer in any manner his rights under his licence.
5. For every elephant captured by the licence-holder and for every elephant killed, the licence-holder shall pay to the
Government, in such manner as the Collector may from time to time direct, a fee of Rs. 100:
Provided that no fee shall be payable for an elephant killed under a licence granted under the proviso to Rule 2.
6. A licence-holder shall be at liberty to capture or to kill elephants in any manner except in pits.
7.
(1)
A licence-holder shall, on the first day of each month send to the Collector or to such other officer as the Collector may
appoint in this behalf a statement in Form B appended to these Rules showing every elephant which during the
preceding month -
(a)
has been captured by the licence-holder;
(b)
has been killed by the licence-holder; or
(c)
has died during or after capture by the licence-holder.
(2)
If a licence-holder fails to comply with the provisions of sub-rule (1) he shall forfeit to Government a sum of Rs. 3,000 for
each elephant, the capture or death of which he shall have omitted to report.
8. A licence-holder shall not remove outside the boundaries of the area covered by his licence any elephant captured by
him or the tusks of an elephant killed by him unless he has -
(a)
obtained a written permit to do so from the Collector or some other officer appointed by the Collector in that behalf; and
(b)
paid the fee required to be paid by Rule 5.
9.
(1)
A licence-holder shall not -
(a)
build a stockade in any sal or teak forest;
(b)
fell any valuable timber;
(c)
set fire to any jungle;
(d)
cause injury or unnecessary annoyance to any jungle tribes or cultivators residing in the area covered by his licence; or
(e)
interfere with any operations of the Forest Department or any forest contractor in Government forests.
(2)
Page 53/89
----- PAGE 54 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
A licence-holder shall pay at such rates as may be fixed by the Collector or any officer appointed by the Collector in this
behalf, for all timber felled or used by him for the construction of a stockade.
10. A licence-holder shall not after the 15th day of December in any year undertake any Kheda operations in any
Government forests to which the Fire Protection Rules apply.
11. The Collector may cancel the licence of any licence-holder who commits abreach of any of these Rules.
The villages referred to in notification no. 62-IIIF-315-R., dated 3rd January 1936:-
Chhatara.
Kurei.
Mugunipur
Ranpur.
Aria.
Chalk Kamaripur.
Khunta.
Sialigotha.
Barikpur.
Digibhaunra.
Ghoramara.
Patharpenth.
Saralia.
Lakshabindha.
Patana.
Sindhua.
Wada.
Taharpur.
Gujiriha.
Rautamanakahani.
Bagapur.
Singa Khunta.
Paandamanakahani.
Sipura.
Brundadeipur.
Chhatrapur.
Samnathpur
Kumbhi
Kasbajaipur
Manjarigan.
Nuagan.
Chitapada.
Naikpada.
Juki.
Darkholi.
Gunada.
Gopinathpur.
Katuni.
Chalk Samanathpur.
Raipitambar.
Mahumuhan.
Bishnu Chak.
Mendhagaria.
Khanjamahal.
Maitrapur.
Page 54/89
----- PAGE 55 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
Raghunathpur.
Gobindapur.
Chalk Patharpenth.
Narasinghagar.
Kesuripur.
Jirtal.
Rusa.
Mahinshasuri.
Abdulnagar.
Rusa (Patana).
Pagarasal.
Dalingia.
Baghua.
Mantri.
Alsua.
Hariragaria.
Angula.
Raima.
Khanhupur.
Chartpo.
Garbhang No. I
Beharanpur.
Rangapati.
Garbhang No. III.
Balibar.
Balipur.
Bahar-padagan.
Daipur.
Chahalima.
Garbhang No. II.
Gopalpur.
Kiamundia.
Mulakudei.
Barchhigaria.
Bilabankia.
Haripalpur.
Jagannathpur
Sarsankha.
Sankhua
Mudpur.
Brahmansahi.
Garbhang No. IV.
Manipur
Natapara.
Suthang.
Bharararpada.
Binagaria.
Bhagatpur.
Atpur.
Radhaballabhapur.
Khantapara.
Page 55/89
----- PAGE 56 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
Belada.
Barakhuri.
Gobindapur.
Harirapada.
Nuapur.
Ramanagar.
Krushnadaspur.
Utarsar.
Naichhanpur.
Hensagura.
Kamarpur.
Atapur.
Hansipatna.
Madhusudhanpur.
Nuapara.
Nischintapur.
Dahisara.
Panpana.
Sarupada.
Jagantahpur.
Begunia.
Ghashipada.
Danda Haripur.
Darariha.
Kasagaria.
Pitalpada.
Basulipur.
Jarida.
Kespur.
Bahanga.
Patulida.
Naikbandha.
Ichhapur.
Gangei.
Chalk
Pitalpada.
Form A
Licence for the capture of elephants within the in the district of...................
(Seal and signature of the Collector.)
To........................................................................................
Son of..............................
Resident of.........................
The right to catch elephants for one year in Block No................................
North-East-South-West-
Boundaries of Block
Name of Block................
District of..................
Province of...........
the boundaries of which are specified
in the margin, is granted to you on the following conditions:-
I. That you pay Rs. 100 for this licence.
Page 56/89
----- PAGE 57 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
II. That you pay Rs. 100 royalty in respect of every elephant capture by you and for every elephant killed in attempt to
capture.
III. That you hunt between the 1st October and the 31st March and not otherwise.
IV. That your catch elephants and do not sell or lease your Block, or any part of it.
V. That you catch elephants by any method except pitfalls.
VI. That you report in writing on the 1st of each month to the officer granting this licence or to any other official as you
may be directed, in the Form herewith supplied to you, the killing or the capture or death during capture, of every
elephant so captured or dying during the preceding month.
VII. That you obtain a written permit, and pay the royalty prescribed in clause II, before removing beyond the boundaries
specified in the margin any newly-caught elephant or the tusk of an elephant killed.
VIII. That you shall not (build a stockade in any sal or teak forest, or fell any valuable timber or set fire to any jungle or)
cause injury or unnecessary annoyance to any jungle tribes or cultivators residing in the neighbourhood.
Note. - The bracketed portion should be omitted when within Killah Sukindah the proprietor of Sukindah is himself the
licence-holder.
IX. That should you wilfully destroy any elephant for the sake of its ivory, or otherwise, you will be proceeded against
under the Elephants' Preservation Act VI of 1879.
X. That should you, in contravention of clause VI, fail or neglect to report the killing or the capture, or killing in the
attempt to capture, of any elephant you shall pay to Government a sum of Rs. 3,000 for each elephant the killing or the
capture or death of which has not been reported.
XI. That should you commit any breach of any of the conditions of this licence, the licence may, at the discretion of the
Collector, be cancelled, and any, or all, of the elephants captured by you forfeited to Government; this penalty to be in
addition to any other punishment or penalty to which you may be liable under any provision of the law in force at the time
or any Rule duly made in exercise of an authority conferred by law.
I, .........son of .............resident of....................to whom the licence no. .....  has been granted, do hereby acknowledge
and declare that all the conditions of this licence have been explained to me, and that I have understood the same, and
that I accept the licence subject to all the conditions therein contained. And I further declare and covenant that I will not
question or dispute the execution against my property of any penalty that may be imposed upon me under clauses X
and XI, for any breach of the conditions of this licence.
Licensee's signature.
All the conditions of this licence were thoroughly explained to in our presence, and he also in our presence executed
and signed the above covenant.
Three witnesses.
1. ...................................
2. ...................................
3. ...................................
Station.
Form B
Statement For The Month of...........................
Showing the number of Elephants captured by..........................duly licenced under Act VI of 1879
Date of capture.
Number of elephants captured alive.
Number of elephants that died during capture.
Number of elephants killed.
Number of elephants sold out of those entered in
column 2.
Number of elephants that died out of those
entered in column 2.
Number remaining at the end of the month, i.e.
columns 2- (columns 5 and 6.)
Total number remaining at the end of preceding
month.
Page 57/89
----- PAGE 58 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
Total of columns 7 and 8.
Remarks.
Male.
Female.
Male.
Female.
Male.
Female.
Male.
Female.
Male.
Female.
Male.
Female.
Male.
Female.
Male.
Female.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
72.
Revenue from Quarries and Rules for granting leases for the same.
- (i) From 1st April 1922 revenue accruing from mineral concessions granted by Government shall be credited under the
minor head 'Receipts from mines, quarries, etc.' of "V-Land Revenue-Miscellaneous" whether the area under concession
is or is not in reserved or protected forest.
(ii)
Government of B. & O. Revenue Department Letter No. 2767-IIW-167-R., dated the 30th March 1921. - The Rules for
the grant of licences to prospect for minerals and of mining leases are contained in the Bihar and Orissa Waste Lands
Manual. Such leases or licences are granted by the Civil Department but when the land in question is situated within a
reserved forest the District Officers shall consult the Forest Officer before granting the lease or licences.
73.
Fixed value permits.
- Mode of realizing revenue by the use of fixed value permits in the Sambalpur divisions.
(Government of Bihar and Orissa, Revenue Department Memo. No. 12828-IIIF-22-R., dated the 8th December 1925 and
Letter No. 1583-R-IIIF-30, dated the 18th February 1936.)
1. The sale of fixed value permits, their use for the removal of forest-produce and the method of check on the accounts
necessitated by their use are regulated according to the following system:-
System of fixed value permits
2. The main principles adopted are -
(i)
that licenced vendors shall have as little as possible to do beyond selling the permits; and
(ii)
that the classification of forest revenue for departmental purposes shall be done by paid officials of the Forest
Page 58/89
----- PAGE 59 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
Department.
3. Fixed value permits in Form No. 37 of the following denominations which are distinguished by different colours will be
used: -
A book of
0
0
3
permits
containing
64
Permits.
?
0
0
6
?
?
64
?
?
0
0
9
?
?
64
?
?
0
1
0
?
?
64
?
?
0
1
6
?
?
64
?
?
0
2
0
?
?
32
?
Page 59/89
----- PAGE 60 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
?
0
2
6
?
?
32
?
?
0
3
0
?
?
32
?
?
0
4
0
?
?
32
?
?
0
6
0
?
?
16
?
?
0
8
0
?
?
16
?
?
0
9
0
?
?
16
?
?
0
12
Page 60/89
----- PAGE 61 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
0
?
?
16
?
?
1
0
0
?
?
16
?
?
2
8
0
?
?
8
?
Each class of permits will be bound in books with limp cover and will be in duplicate; the original and duplicate foils
being superposed for use with carbon paper and serially numbered 1 to 64,1 to 32,1 to 16 or 1 to 8 as the case may be,
with book number printed in each foil of the permit. The duplicate will be perforated. The original and duplicate foils of
each permit will bear the same number. The book number, the value of the permit and the words "this book contains
64-32-16-8 permits" will be printed by the press on the outer cover of each book.
The Divisional Forest Officer shall obtain the fixed value permits on indent from the Deputy Superintendent, Government
Printing, Bihar and Orissa, Gaya.
4. A register of receipts and issues of fixed value permit books shall be maintained in the Divisional Forest Office in
Form No. 33 called the Register of Fixed Value Permit Books. As soon as a supply 'of these books of different
denominations (Re. 0-0-3 to Rs. 2-8-0) is received from the Press, they should be examined and stamped and a
certificate given on the cover of the book that the sequence of the number of permits in it is unbroken. Entries will then
be made in columns 1 to 3 of this Register and when the books are issued to Range Officers, columns 4 to 6 should be
filled in. This register should be numbered serially and a page index should be opened at the beginning of the book to
show the pages where each class or denomination of fixed value permit books is entered.
5. The Range Officer shall obtain his supply of fixed value permits on indent from the Divisional Forest Officer in indent
Form No. 34. The Divisional Forest Officer will supply the books indented for and fill in columns 7 to 11 of the indent
Form and send it back with the permit books, to the Range Officer who should check them and sign and return the
indent to the Divisional Forest Officer for record.
Rs. 500 is fixed as the maximum value of fixed value permits to be kept in stock by Range Officers.
6. The Range Officer shall also maintain a register in Form No. 33, in which all receipts and issues should be entered as
they occur.
7. Licensed vendors shall purchase their permit books for cash at the nearest Range or Sub-Range Office and shall be
allowed a discount, of anna 1 in the rupee on the face value of the permits. If they cannot attend personally licenced
vendors may send their agents with a written request for permit books and the necessary cash together with a receipt
duly signed for the amount of discount due. The Range Officer shall then supply the permit books. He will show the full
face value of the books supplied as a receipt and remit that amount to the treasury; the amount of discount allowed will
be shown as expenditure supported by the licensed vendor's receipt.
8. Licensed vendors shall maintain a register in Form No. 35 and shall enter all transactions in fixed value permits daily
in Form No. 36. Form No. 35 which shall be written up from Form No. 36 should be balanced monthly.
9. Licensed vendors shall close their accounts on the 12th day of each month and shall submit so as to reach the Range
Page 61/89
----- PAGE 62 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
Office on or before the 15th of the month copies of Forms 35 and 36 together with the used up permit books containing
the counterfoils and partly used up permit books containing the counterfoils of permits sold up to the 11th of the month
as well as unsold permits. From the 12th the licensed vendors shall use another set of permit books until the submission
of their next accounts.
10. The Range Officer shall prepare an abstract From monthly Forms 35 and 36 received from licenced vendors in his
range and submit it to the Divisional Forest
Officer in Form No. 35 together with the used up permit books containing the counterfoils of permits issued during the
month. The Divisional Forest Officer shall, after check, file it in guard books or have it bound. In the partly used up
permit books the Range Officer shall initial with date the counterfoil of the last permit issued and return them to the
licensed vendors for continuation of issues in the following month.
The counterfoils of used-up permit books shall be destroyed after six months from date of receipt in the Divisional Forest
Office.
11. Licensed vendors may obtain refund of the price paid by them less discount already received, on returning to the
Range Officer the permits in respect of which refund is claimed and fulfilling such other conditions as the Divisional
Forest Officer may prescribe, such refunds being charged to "RVI-Deduct Refunds" and the permits brought on to stock
in Form No. 33.
12. Licenced vendors shall enter on each permit issued the name of the block or forest, sub-range and range.
13. Licenced vendors shall issue a separate permit to each individual person and shall on no account issue one permit
for produce to be removed by two or more persons from different forests.
14. The quantity and value of the permit books to be kept by each licence vendor shall be regulated by the Divisional
Forest Officer according to the needs of particular cases.
15. Licensed vendors shall give a security bond for Rs. 50 executed by some person of known respectability and
solvency for their good and honest performance of their duties. (See Form No. 32).
16. Range Officers will be personally responsible for the loss of any permits supplied to them.
17. Range Officers will show the sales by fixed value permits separately from those effected by ordinary permits.
18. Range Officers, or any of the Sub-Range Officers deputed by them for the purpose, should inspect the permits of
every licensed vendor once a month and should submit a report on the result of their inspection to the Divisional Forest
Officer as usual.
19. The Range Officer with the prior approval of the Divisional Forest Officer will furnish the vendors with a list of the
forest produce for which they are empowered to issue fixed value permits, giving the rates chargeable for the different
loads or quantities of such produce and specifying the forests for which they may issue fixed value permits and the
period for which these permits will be current.
20. Sub-Range Officers who are specially authorized by their Range Officer, with the Divisional Forest Officer's previous
permission in writing, may keep a stock of fixed value permit books for sale to licensed vendors, up to a maximum value
of Rs. 100.
21. Purchasers of fixed value permits are required to return the permits, if not previously collected by a Forest Officer, to
the nearest Forest Officer within a week of the expiry of the time granted for extraction of the forest-produce and the
Forest Officer concerned shall transmit them as soon as may be to the Range Officer. The Range Officer shall check 10
per cent of these with the counterfoils submitted by licensed vendors.
74.
Remittance of forest revenue and advance through Post Offices.
- The following Rules are prescribed for the remittance of forest revenue and advance through post offices.
(Approved in Government Order No. 2597-For., dated the 21st July 1893, and No. 1069-For., dated 27th February
1896.)
1. Divisional Forest Officers should provide their Range and other revenue-remitting officers with ordinary inland money
order forms in books with counterfoils, such as are obtainable at all post offices, and these alone should be used, all
particulars of the remittance being noted on the counterfoil.
2. The remitter should make out a money order on one of these forms, filling in the name of the most convenient post
office and other particulars, and making it payable to the officer-in-charge of the treasury, and should send it with the
cash to the post office. He should note briefly on the coupon particulars of the remittance sufficient for the Treasury
Officer's information.
Page 62/89
----- PAGE 63 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
3. The Treasury Officer, on receipt from the post office of the money order, will sign and date the money order and
return it to the post office after cutting off the strip containing the coupon and acknowledgement. He will forward to the
Divisional Forest Officer the advice list prescribed in the Rules published in the notification of the 11th May 1888,
together with the corresponding strips consisting of the coupons and acknowledgements of all money orders received
during the day.
4. The entry in the remitter's account will be supported by the receipt given to the remitter by the post office when the
money order was issued.
5. The commission paid on money orders will be charged to contingencies in the Forest Department Accounts.
6. Remittance of advance. - In remitting advances to disbursers the same procedure as that prescribed in Rules 1 and 5
above should be followed; but the amount of the money order and the commission may be paid into the post office either
in cash or, where the post office is at a treasury or sub-treasury station, by a cheque drawn in favour of the Postmaster
on such treasury or sub-treasury. The latter course can only be adopted when the remitter has a banking account with
the treasury or sub-treasury concerned.
7. The money order will be treated by the post office as an ordinary inland money order, and acknowledgement sent to
the remitter in due course. The remitter's accounts will be supported by the acknowledgement, as well as the receipt
referred to in Rule 4 above.
Chapter-VI Budget Estimates
75.
Preparation of budget and revised estimates.
- The Rules regarding the preparation and submission of the budget and the revised estimates and regarding budget
control are detailed in a separate publication named the Bihar and Orissa Budget Manual.
Chapter-VII Miscellaneous Office Business
Office Business
76.
Definition of "case" and "files".
- A group of documents relating to one subject is called a "case". A group of case referring to one head or division of
work may be collected in a "file".
77.
Case cover.
- Each case will be kept within a stiff cover standardized for the purpose, and on the title-page of this will be entered the
number and subject of the case and its references, if any, to previous and subsequent correspondence.
78.
Case register. (Form No. 18.).
- A register of cases will be kept (Form No. 18) with a series of numbers commencing on the opening of each financial
year. The cases falling within each "file" or "class of cases" should be entered in one place, space being set apart in the
Case Register for entering the case of each "file" in the order of their number. The number given to each "file" should be
in Roman figures, e.g., "I" for "Accounts". The number given to each "case" should be in Arabic figures. Cases should be
serially numbered within each "file". Thus "1-I" will mean Case no. 1 of File "I-Accounts"
79.
Government and Account Department General Orders and Circulars.
- Government and Account Department general orders and circulars will be filed separately, according to number and
date, in a "Circular file". If they are received in duplicate, one copy will be placed with the case to which it relates. If only
one copy be available, and it has special reference to any case, a memorandum of its contents will be filed therewith.
Miscellaneous Office Business
80.
Register of books and maps, Form No. 19.
- (i) In each office a register of Books (Form No. 19 must be kept up. The current number of the register and the date of
receipt should be entered on each copy. The column of "Remarks" is intended to explain what has become of any
copies which may have been lost or otherwise disposed of. The entries in this column should be dated and initialled by
the officer to whose office the books belong.
(ii)
Page 63/89
----- PAGE 64 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
A separate register for maps will be kept in the same form.
81.
Registers of correspondence. (Forms Nos. 20 and 21.).
- (i) Registers of receipts and issues of all correspondence will be kept in Forms Nos. 20 and 21 comprising, if
necessary, consecutive volumes of convenient bulk.
(ii)
A new series of numbers will be commenced in each register book at the opening of each financial year. Circulars are to
be entered in red ink.
82.
Destruction of useless documents.
- (i) Every year, in the months of September and October the Divisional Officer and his clerks will sort the cases that
have been closed for three full years, with a view to destroy those documents which may be considered of no further
use. A large bulk of the correspondence may be got rid of by destroying forwarding dockets, inquiries and reminders.
Many of the letters relating to questions which have been settled for three full years can also be destroyed, provided the
register books contain all that may be necessary to ascertain regarding them.
(ii)
The original accounts rendered to the Divisional Officer by Subdivisional Officers and subordinates, and which have
been filed in his office for three full years, should be similarly set aside for destruction.
(iii)
Such documents as annual or special reports, correspondence relating to boundary questions, to rights and privileges of
other persons in the forests, to working plans and annual plans-of-operations, and to all subjects affecting the general
management and history of the forests included in the division, as well as all orders of Government and circulars on
important subjects, should be carefully preserved.
(iv)
All correspondence registers shall be preserved for twenty years. Records in Forms Nos. 4, 6 and 12 of Forest Account
Code and Manual Form No. 15, should be preserved for the periods specified in the margin. The Register of Reserved
Forests (Form No. 1, Forest Department Code) is an important document and should be continuously retained. Forms
Nos. 2, 3, 4 of the Forest Department Code and Form No. 14, Forest Account Code, should be preserved until a working
plan or other report, embodying a complete account of the history and statistics during any period considered, has been
prepared or revised for the forests in question. As a general Rule, when monthly or annual returns have been
reproduced or adequately summarized in printed working plans or administration reports, the original manuscript forms,
if they have been retained for at least three full years in all, may be destroyed. [Form No. 4-6 years. Forms Nos. 6 and
12-25 years. Form No. 15- 35 years].
(v)
Those papers, which it is proposed to destroy, will be submitted to the Conservator on his next visit and his authority will
be obtained for their destruction.
(vi)
The local Government may authorize any Selected Officer or class of Officers in charge of a Forest Division the power to
authorize the destruction of useless records.
(vii)
These Rules apply to Conservator's Office as well as to Divisional Offices. (See also Rule 40-A in Section XIII, chapter I
of the Bihar and Orissa Account Code.)
83.
Register of distribution of books.
- A register of the distribution of books and circulars etc. will be kept in Form No. 22.
84.
List of correspondence to be sent to Forest Officers when on tour.
- When the Conservator or any Divisional Forest Officer is absent on tour, a list in Form No. 23 of all documents
received in his office will be sent to him daily or as frequently as he may direct with all papers necessary for his orders.
85.
Register of forest buildings.
Page 64/89
----- PAGE 65 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
(1)
A register of all forest buildings in Form No. 29 is to be maintained in every divisional office, one page being allotted to
each building and when applying for sanction to the writing off of a building the Divisional Forest Officer should provide
full particulars of the building. The annual sanctioned amount for repairs of each building should only be shown in the
Register of buildings while the actual cost of repairs of each building should be shown on a separate comparative
statement in the annexed Form given below. -
Register showing the expenditure incurred annually on the maintenance of building in................................Division.
Sl. No.
Name of buildings.
Sanctioned cost of annual repairs
Year
Year
Year
Ordinary
Special
Total
Ordinary
Special
Total
Ordinary
Special
Total
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
(2)
Register of land. - A register of land (other than forest) owned or occupied by the Forest Department (e.g. land used for
forest roads, forest building sites etc.) is to be maintained in the annexed Form in every divisional forest office.
Register of land (other than forest) owned or occupied by the Forest Department
Serial No.
Purpose.
1. Area in acres
...
...
...
...
2. Situation
...
...
...
...
3. Description of boundaries
Page 65/89
----- PAGE 66 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
...
...
...
...
4. Method of demarcation
...
...
...
...
5. Date when acquired or leased
...
...
...
...
6. Method of tenure -
Whether rented, if so amount of rent, free of rent, other
terms.
7. Subsequent Addition or modification;
The following instructions should be followed in preparing the register:-
(i)
The headings should be written horizontally.
(ii)
The register should be bound as the Register of Reserved and Protected Forests, and the index should be classified
under the three main heads-A. Compounds, B. Roads and C. Miscellaneous, e.g., plantation sites, depots etc. Separate
serial numbers should be given to the lands, entered under each of the above heads, a page or more being devoted to
each serial number.
(iii)
In all cases areas in the possession of this Departmental should be shown on the 16' = 1 mile cadastral sheets of the
settlement maps which should be properly attested. The sheets of the settlement maps in question should be kept in a
folder or in a map almirah with a note in the register that the maps are in the folder or almirah giving the number of the
sheet and the collection in which to be found.
(iv)
A special folder or map almirah should be made and copies of settlement maps showing out properties should be kept in
it.
(v)
The Settlement Department is likely to give one plot number to the whole road running through a village. If within one
village a road bearing one plot number is held by the Forest Department under different methods of tenure, the different
sections should be shown on the maps as (a), (b) etc. to indicate the different kinds of tenure.
(vi)
Each Range Officer should have a register giving records of lands in his range, the maps to be filed in the range register
being copies of maps in the Divisional Register.
86.
Capital and Revenue Accounts of residential buildings.
- The Government considers that it is desirable to maintain a Capital and Revenue account of forest buildings on the
same lines as those maintained in the case of buildings which are on the books of the Public Works Department. The
Chief Conservator of Forests and the Conservator of Forests will open in their offices, a Capital and Revenue Register
and will forward annually a copy of the entries contained therein to the Superintending Engineer to enable that officer to
exercise a check on the assessment of rent. (Abstract from letter No. 7124 R. dated 28th October, 1913 from the
Revenue Secretary, Government of Bihar and Orissa).
It is not considered that the Civil Account or Public Works Code either expressly directs or intends that residential
buildings of the Forest Department shall be brought on the books of the Public Works Department.
Page 66/89
----- PAGE 67 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
Capital and Revenue Accounts should be prepared in the form attached for non-Public Works Department residential
buildings, the cost of which exceeds Rs. 5000 for each residential quarters and submitted to the Accountant General,
Bihar every year not latter than 31st July each year. In the case of residential buildings whose capital cost cannot be
ascertained from records, the [A. G's Circular No. 374 dated 25th May 1926 and No. 38 dated the 8th July, 1826]
present estimated value there of may be taken as the capital cost.
The rates of interest given in the following table should be applied in calculating the standard rent of residences and
filling in the column 13 of the return.
Date of acquisition or construction of the residence.
Rate of interest
Buildings occupied on or before the 19th June 1922.
Buildings occupied after the 19th June 1922.
Before 1st April 1919
1st April 1919 to 31st July 1921..
1st August 1921 to 31st December
1921
From 1st January 1922 until further orders
3 ½ per cent.
3 ½ per cent.
3 ½ per cent.
6 per cent.
4 per cent.
5 per cent.
6 per cent.
6 per cent.
Note. - The date of construction referred to in column of this table should be taken as the date on which the accounts of
the estimate for the construction of the residence are closed. In respect of expenditure on additions and alterations to
residences the interest should be calculated at the rate applicable on the date on which the accounts for the estimate for
the additions and alterations are closed.
Capital and Revenue Accounts of residences and their subsidiary services for the year
Locality.
Serial no.
Particulars of buildings.
Capital outlay to end of year under report.
Cost of value of site including expenditure on
its preparation which has not been taken into account in
calculating the standard rent.
Capital cost of-
Building excluding site.
Water-supply and sanitary installation.
Electric installation.
Total
1
2
3
4
5
5(a)
5(b)
5(c)
5(d)
Number of years for which revenue accounts have
Page 67/89
----- PAGE 68 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
been kept.
Annual allowance of maintenance
Actual expenditure on maintenance
Interest on capital outlay to end of year under
report (column 4) or rent payable by Government.
Total annual cost to Government, i.e., total of
columns 12 and 13.
Ordinary.
Special
Municipal and other taxes payable by Government.
During year.
To end of year under report.
Average per annum.
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
Standard rent per annum calculated under
Rent realised during the year
Remarks
(1) Information as to whether the particular
occupant pays rent under Fundamental Rules 45A and 45B.(2)
Explanations of short realization.(3) Reference to orders
fixing, special rents, rates, etc.(4) Explanation of excess
of average annual maintenance charges over the amount permissible
(columns 7 and 8)
Date from which it is operative.
Fundamental Rule 45A.
Fundamental Rule 45B.
Monthly rate.
Number of months.
Amount.
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
87.
House Rent
, Government of B. & O., F Department, No. 1889-F., dated 26th February 1923, and No. 3584-F., dated 11th April
1923, 1629-F.R., dated 17th June, 1932. - The Officers of the classes named below are exempted from payment of rent
for Government quarters occupied by them:-
1. (i) Ministerial officers drawing not more than Rs. 60 a month who are employed as Range clerks in Forest Ranges.
[Government of Bihar and Orissa, Finance Department, Letter No. 1629-F.R., dated the 17th June, 1932.]
Page 68/89
----- PAGE 69 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
(ii)
All members of the Subordinate Forest Establishment of whatever designation and pay.
2. In the case of clerks (not subject to any special Rules or orders) drawing pay up to Rs. 125 a month rents are limited
to 5 per cent, of their pay.
(Government of Bihar and Orissa, Public Works Department, Circular No. 1170-A/IVR-1 of 1922, dated 23rd January,
1922.)
3. Bengal P.W.D. Circular No. 24-A., dated 20th October 1905. Government Order No. 2807, dated 8th November 1905.
- When an officer continues to occupy a house after it has been purchased by Government for official residence, rent
should be recovered at the rate paid to the former landlord subject to the usual limit of 10 per cent on the salary and
local allowance of the officer occupying the house, pending the approval of Government to the rent assessed by the
Superintending Engineer.
Note 1. - Government quarters as used in this Rule include as well houses leased by Government.
Note 2. - The Gazetted Officers of the Forest Department, whether on duty or on recess, are allowed to occupy the
forest rest-house at Doranda (Ranchi), free of rent, up to a limit of 10 days subject to the condition that occupation
should be treated as continuous where an interval of seven days or less intervenes between two or more periods of
occupation.
88.
Quinquennial reports and maps to illustrate the same. Inspector-General of Forests Circular No. 1010, dated 9th
November 1897.
- Forest maps are to be appended to all Provincial Forest administration Reports once in every five years, with effect
from the quinquennial period commencing with the year 1898-99. Similarly every fifth year the Conservator's letter
covering the annual report will give a short resume of progress made in forest administration during the preceding five
years.
89.
Nomenclature of plants in Forest Administration Reports and other reports and publications.
- When vernacular or popular names are used, the scientific names should invariably be given in brackets also. When
possible, the English equivalent or trade name should be given as well. Specific names of plants should always be spelt
with a small initial letter.
All scientific, vernacular and trade names (except those that have been anglicised, such as mango and teak) must be
printed in italics.
Examples: - Sitsal (Dalbergia latifolia) (Bombay black wood, Indian rosewood), but teak (Tectona grandis).
90.
Rules for supply of stationary.
- The supply of stationery is regulated by a fixed, book credit, which is distributed by the controlling officer to the
indenting officer by annual allotment. All articles of stationery, including drawing material, type writers and their
accessories, brass seals, dating machines and rubber stamps will be obtained from the stationery office, Gulzarbagh, in
accordance with the rules for the supply of articles of stationery in Bihar and Orissa.
To enable the Conservator to make suitable alterations from year to year Divisional Forest Officers should submit (not
later than the 15th March) a value forecast for the ensuing indent explaining differences from the value of the previous
year's indent; the Conservator will then intimate the allotment for each division on the 15th April. Indents must be
prepared in accordance with the Rules for the supply of stationery and the regular annual indent is due to reach the
Conservator's office not later than the 1st of May.
Supplementary indents should rarely be necessary and should be accompanied by an explanation.
91.
Rules for Supply of Printed Forms.
- The Forest Department Code Forms will be obtained by indent on the Government of India Central Forms Stores,
Calcutta. The indenting officers will send a copy of the indent for these forms to the Deputy Superintendent in charge,
Press and Forms Department, Gaya and will also inform him of the receipt of the forms.
[Out of three copies of invoices received from the Central Forms Stores, Culcutta, for the supply of the Forms, one copy
will be kept by the indenting officers and the remaining copies will be forwarded to the Deputy Superintendent in charge
of Press and Forms, Gaya, the cost of the forms will be debited to the Forms Department, Bihar, by the
Page 69/89
----- PAGE 70 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
Accountant-General, on its acceptance of the debit. All other Forms will be indented for from the Forms Department,
Bihar, in accordance with the Rules for the supply and custody of printed Forms in Bihar. (Government of Bihar, Finance
Department, Letter No. 3761-F., dated the 13th April, 1939)]
[Substituted vide C.S. No. 89, dated 10.1.1940.]
.
Chapter-VIII Transfer of Charge
92.
Transfer of charge, General.
- On the occasion of transfer of charge arrangements must be made by the two officers concerned that the relieving
officer is placed in such a position as will enable him to carry on the duties of which he has taken charge in an efficient
manner, and with as complete a knowledge of the property entrusted to his charge, the works in progress and all
arrangements made in connection with them, as the circumstances of the case admit.
93.
Transfer Report.
- A transfer report signed by the relieved and the relieving officers will, on the day of transfer, be submitted to the
Conservator in the case of a transfer between two Conservators and to the State Government in the case of the transfer
of the Chief Conservator's Office. The relieved officer will report the transfer of Divisional charge to the officers in charge
of the treasuries on which he is authorised to draw cheques and bill, at the foot of the report; send a specimen of the
relieving officer's usual signature in order that the, treasury officers may satisfy themselves as to the validity of the
cheques presented by the relieving officer.
94.
Examination of accounts and vouchers outstandings and liabilities.
- The relieving officer must see that all office books are posted upto date, and in the case of cash and stock accounts
that the needful vouchers of receipts and issues belonging to the accounts of the current month are made over to him.
The relieving officer will make himself acquainted with all outstandings and liabilities on account of the department, and
state that he has done so.
95.
Cash.
- (i) The cash book will be closed and the cash balance will be counted in the presence of both officers who will sign the
book.
(ii)
A certificate (in Form No. 24) will be made out in quintriplicate and signed by both officers. These Certificates will be
forwarded to the Conservator, Chief Conservator or the State Government and the original will be submitted to the
Accountant General, Bihar (See Article 52 Civil Account Code).
96.
Timber and forest produce.
- In the case of a transfer between two Divisional Officers the Relieving Officer will take over charge of all timber,
bamboos, and other forest-produce for which a certificate, in a Form similar to that prescribed in Rule 154 (as per
Government Publication, Rule 95 herein) for cash, will be submitted.
97.
Other properties.
- Besides cash, timber, and forest-produce, the following are the main classes of property which ordinarily form the
subject of transfers between Divisional Officers:-
(1)
Demarcated reserves.
(2)
Plantation.
(3)
Timber depots and revenue stations.
(4)
Buildings, roads and bridges.
Page 70/89
----- PAGE 71 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
(5)
Live-stock.
(6)
Machinery, stores, instruments, and tools.
(7)
Books and maps.
(8)
Office records.
(9)
Office furniture.
98.
Examination of property by Relieving Officer.
- (i) In the transfer report, the relieving officer should state by what means he has satisfied himself of the nature and
condition of the different classes of property of which he has taken charge.
(ii)
Live and dead stock and other articles which may be at headquarters as well as books and maps, office records, and
office furniture should, as a Rule be personally inspected by the relieving officer at the time of transfer, and the fact of
this having been done should be stated.
(iii)
In the case of property at a distance from headquarters the register and other documents in which they are described
should be examined.
Chapter IX
Inspection Report
99.
(i)
Government are pleased to prescribe the following standard of inspection to be done by superior Forest Officer's.
(a)
inspection of Conservator's offices. - Each Conservator of Forests should, as far as possible, inspect the office of each
Conservator once a year.
(b)
Inspection of Divisional office. - Each Conservator of Forest should as fay as possible inspect the office of each
Divisional Forest Officer once a year.
(c)
Inspection of Range office. - Each Divisional Forest Officer should inspect each Range office once a year.
(ii)
Apart from holding regular inspections according to the standard prescribed above, all Divisional Forest Officers should
also pay surprise visit to and hold surprise check of the subordinate Forest Offices and Forest Blocks, within their
respective jurisdictions. (Revenue Department No. C/F2401/59/-796 R, date March 1959).
(A)
The following is the Inspection report Form for the Inspection of Conservator's Office by the Chief Conservator of Forest.
(Revenue Department No. C/F. 2403/59-1504 Rt, dated August 28, 1959.)
Period of Inspection
I. Inspection report Form for inspection of Conservator's office. - Office Building.
(a)
Owner
(b)
Rent
(c)
Condition and General suitability.
(d)
Furniture.
Page 71/89
----- PAGE 72 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
II. Records-
(a)
Live and dead stock:
(i)
Stock register of stores, tools and plant.
(ii)
Yearly store return.
(iii)
Purchase of furniture.
(iv)
Condition of instruments.
(b)
Cash account.
(i)
Cash balance
(ii)
Establishment pay bill.
(iii)
Register of cheques.
(iv)
Budget control book.
(v)
Register of administrative sanction to capital projects.
(vi)
Contractors' and Disbursed Ledger. - Form No. 63 of revenue outstandings.
(vii)
Audit objections, their nature if due to carelessness culpable irregularities brought to notice; unnecessary work thrown
on the Controlling officer by intention to objections.
(viii)
Progress of submission of Divisional Account.
(c)
Office business:
(i)
Register of uniforms.
(ii)
Register of cases.
(iii)
Register of books and maps.
(iv)
Register of receipts and issues of correspondence.
(v)
Destruction of useless documents.
(vi)
Neatness in keeping office records.
(vii)
Punctuality in correspondence.
(viii)
Register of disposals of letters received from Government and Chief Conservator of Forests.
(ix)
List showing the dates of receipt of Chief Conservator of Forest's letters and date of disposal.
(x)
Page 72/89
----- PAGE 73 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
Custody of stationery.
(xi)
Stock book of stationery.
(xii)
Stock book of forms..
(xiii)
Means taken to ensure preservation of records, maps etc.
(xiv)
Reference books if corrected up to date.
(xv)
Register of correction slips.
(xvi)
Service books and character roll.
(xvii)
Register of service stamps.
(xviii)
Security deposit register and pass books.
(xix)
Casual leave register.
(xx)
Contingent bill register.
(xxi)
Maintenance of Type writer-machine Cord. (Rule 121 of the Bihar Stationery Manual).
(xxii)
Capital and Revenue accounts of residences.
III. Personal. -
(i)
Officer in charge.
(ii)
General state of discipline in office.
(iii)
Efficiency of each member of the establishment.
(iv)
Adequacy of establishment.
(v)
Working hours.
(vi)
Irregularities.
(vii)
Complaints.
IV. Inspections. -
(i)
Tours and Forest Inspection by the Forest Officer.
(ii)
Progress of Development works.
(iii)
Corruption and malpractices detected amongst the forest staff and disciplinary action taken.
(iv)
General comments
(B)
Inspection report Form for inspection of Divisional Forest Officer. - The following is the Inspection report for the
Page 73/89
----- PAGE 74 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
inspection of the Divisional Forest Offices by the Conservator;
I. Office Building:
(a)
Owner
(b)
Rent
(c)
Condition and general suitability.
(d)
Furniture.
II. Records:
(a)
Management and working of Forests.
(i)
Detailed record of Reserved, and protected Forests and unclassed State lands.
(ii)
Maps of the Reserved, protected and other forests.
(iii)
Control book and register of out-turns.
(iv)
Forest Journals.
(v)
Compartment History.
(vi)
Plantation Journals.
(vii)
Control maps.
(viii)
Fire protection maps.
(ix)
Records of fires.
(x)
Register of sample and I experimental plot.
(xi)
Depot register of receipts and disposals of timber etc.
(xii)
Register of standards,
(xiii)
Register of receipts.
(xiv)
Sales of timber and other produce cut and collected by Government agency.
(xv)
Account of timber cut, collected and removed by consumers or purchasers.
(xvi)
Revenue demands and outstandings.
(xvii)
Particulars of items outstanding and unadjusted for over one year.
(xviii)
Progress of revenue of the division.
(xix)
Register of free grants and Register of produce removed by right holders (when kept).
Page 74/89
----- PAGE 75 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
(xx)
Register of seizure and disposal of forest produce and other property.
(xxi)
Register of revenue received in advance.
(b)
Live and deadstock.
(i)
Stock register, tools and plant.
(ii)
Yearly store returns.
(iii)
Purchase of Furniture-their quality.
(iv)
Condition of instruments.
(c)
Cash Account.
(i)
Cash balance.
(ii)
Establishment pay bills.
(iii)
Register of cheques.
(iv)
Budget control book.
(v)
Contractors' and Disbursers' Ledger. - Form No. 63 of revenue outstandings.
(vi)
Audit objections, their nature if due to carelessness, breach of rules, culpable irregularities brought to notice;
unnecessary work thrown on the controlling officer by intention to objections.
(vii)
Progress of audit of Divisional Accounts.
(d)
Office business
(i)
Register of uniforms
(ii)
Register of cases.
(iii)
Register of books and maps.
(iv)
Destruction of useless documents.
(v)
Neatness in keeping office records.
(vi)
Punctuality in correspondences.
(vii)
Register of disposal of letters received from Government and Chief Conservator of Forests.
(viii)
List showing the dates of receipt of Chief Conservator's letters and date of disposal.
(ix)
Custody of stationery,
Page 75/89
----- PAGE 76 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
(x)
Stock book of stationery.
(xi)
Stock books of forms.
(xii)
Means taken to ensure preservation of records, maps etc.
(xiii)
Reference books if corrected up to date.
(xiv)
Register of correction slips.
(xv)
Service books and character rolls.
(xvi)
Register of service stamps.
(xvii)
Security deposit register and pass books.
(xviii)
Abstracts of forest offences committed in right-burdened forests.
(xix)
Casual leave register.
(xx)
Contingent bill register.
(xxi)
Maintenance of Typewriter Machine Card.
(xxii)
Capital and Revenue-Account of residences.
III. Personnel
(i)
Officer in charge.
(ii)
General state of discipline in office.
(iii)
Efficiency of each member of establishment.
(iv)
Adequacy of establishment.
(v)
Working hours.
(vi)
Irregularities.
(vii)
Complaints.
(C)
Inspection of Range Offices. - The items of inspection for Range Offices by the Divisional Forest Officers are the matters
marked (viii) in (B) above and the following:-
(i)
Register of graziers.
(ii)
Circular files and standing orders
(iii)
Diary
(iv)
Page 76/89
----- PAGE 77 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
Dak-book.
(D)
Audit of offices by the Accountant-General. - Article 149 of the Constitution of India empowers the Auditor-General to
audit and report on all expenditure from the revenue of the States and to ascertain whether money shown in the
accounts as having been disbursed were legally available for and applicable and whether the expenditure conform to the
authority which governs it (b) to audit and report all transactions of the States relating to deposits, sinking funds,
advances, suspense accounts and remittance business; (c) to audit and report on all trading, manufacturing and profit
and loss accounts etc. maintained by any Department of the State the receipts of any Department, the account of Stores
and Stock kept in any office or Department and (d) and to give such information and assistance to the Central
Government or the Government of State as may be required for the preparation of their annual financial statements.
In view of the above, the Accountant General Bihar has the authority in auditing the accounts of the offices of the Chief
Conservator of Forests, Bihar, Conservator of Forests and the Divisional Forest Officers (Revenue Department letter No.
C/F-2033/58-191RT dated 13th August, 1958).
Chapter-X Miscellaneous
100.
Scale of Furniture for use of Forest Officers on tour.
- As most of the forests are equipped with Rest Houses and Subordinates' rest sheds, the need of tents will not often
arise; where tents are necessary the scale of camp furniture should not ordinarily exceed the following. (Government
Order No. 2915-IIIF-56 R, dated the 26th March, 1931 and C.C.F.'s Letter No. 1148 dated the 9th February, 1961).
Designation of officers
Sanctioned scale
Chief Conservator of Forests,
4 camp folding (office or dining) chairs.
Deputy Chief Conservator of Forests and Conservator of
Forests.
1 camp folding long chair.
2 camp folding (dining) tables,
1 camp folding (office) table.
1 camp folding teapoy.
1 bath tub.
1 camp commode with pan.
2 chamberpots.
1 camp folding wash hand table with basin
All Dy. Conservator of Forests.Working Plans Officers and
Assistant Working Plans Officers
3 camp folding (office or dining) chairs.
1 camp folding long chair.
1 camp folding (dining) table.
1 camp folding (office) table,
1 camp folding teapoy.
1 bath tub.
1 camp commode with pan.
2 chamber pots,
1 camp folding wash hand table with basin.
Assistant Conservator of Forests and Extra. Assistant
Conservator of Forest attached to Divisions.
3 camp folding (office or dining) chairs.
1 camp folding long chair
1 camp folding (dining) table.
1 camp folding (office) table.
1 camp folding teapoy.
Page 77/89
----- PAGE 78 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
1 bath tub.
1 camp commode with pan.
2 chamber pots.
1 camp folding wash hand table with basin.
1 camp folding (office or dining) chairs.
1 camp folding (office or dining) table.
1 camp folding teapoy.
1 bath tub.
1 camp commode with pan.
Camp Clerks, Surveyors and Draftsman.
2 chamber pots.
1 camp folding wash hand table with basin.
Forest Rangers and officer-in-charge of Ranges.
2 camp folding office chairs
1 camp folding office table.
1 camp folding (office) chair.
1 camp folding (office) table.
Tents. - (i) The Chief Conservator of Forests has power to sanction the purchase of tents of different sizes or description
up to a limit of Rs. 5000/- in each case within the limit of his budget allotment.
(ii)
All tents are provided with salitas and they should always be wrapped up in their salitas for transport and storage.
(iii)
Special care of tents to avoid damages from whiteants and damp is necessary and officers and their subordinates will be
personally held responsible for the proper care of the tents issued to them when not in use, tents and their equipment
should be properly stored on ants-proof-racks and should be frequently examined and aired when not in use.
(iv)
A tent is expected with repairs to last in efficient condition for ten years.
(v)
A record should be kept showing the date of purchase and full description of each tent with accessories that has been or
is hereafter purchased. The tent should bear a distinguishing number and the date of purchase.
(vi)
When a tent is proposed to be condemned as useless the Divisional Forest Officer will personally inspect the same and
attach with his proposal a certificate of unfitness, in the following Form for the orders of the Conservator of Forests.
When tents of under ten years use are proposed to be condemned the reasons must be fully and specially stated.
Certificate
Certified that I have personally examined the undermentioned tent and I find its condition as under:
In my opinion the tent should be condemned/is fit for use for a further years.
Circle number of the tent.
Type and design of tent
Size
Year of purchase
Condition
(vii)
all condemned tents of any value should be sold, perfectly useless tents should be destroyed by fire or otherwise. The
sale proceeds of old tents are to be credited to Government.
101.
Scale of furniture in the residences of Forest Officers.
- The following is the sanctioned scale according to which furniture may be supplied to officers of the Forest Department
free of rent, for doing office work in their residence (Government letter No. 1104. R, dated the 3rd February 1931 and
Chief Conservator's No. 1148 dated 9th February 1961 to the Government).
Designation of officers
Page 78/89
----- PAGE 79 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
Sanctioned scale
Chief Conservator of Forests.
1 Secretariat table.
Dy, Chief Conservator of Forests.
2 Writing tables.
2 What-not.
1 Book-shelf.
1 Chair: revolving.
1 Chair: easy.
12 Chairs ordinary.
1 Teapoy.
1 Stool.
1 Almirah.
1 Waste paper basket.
1 Stationery Cabinet.
1 Small Durree.
1 Iron safe.
1 Petromax.
Conservator of Forests.
1 Writing table.
2 What-not.
3 Chairs.
1 Book-shelf.
1 Teapoy.
1 Almirah.
1 Waste paper basket.
1 Small Durree.
Divisional Forest officer (Territorial and
non-territorial).
1 Writing table.
1 What-not.
3 Chairs.
1 Teapoy.
1 Waste paper basket.
102.
Rules for occupation of Forest Rest Houses (Forest inspection Bungalows).
- The Rules for the occupation of Forest Department Inspection Bungalows in Bihar & Orissa are as under:-
1. These Rules shall apply to all Forest Department Inspection Bungalows with the exception of those for which special
rules may be prescribed.
2. Forest Department Inspection Bungalows are intended primarily for the accommodation of the Gazetted Officers of
the Forest Department on tour, and such officers have the prior right to occupy them. The nature of a Forest Officer's
duties frequently entails a lengthy stay in a locality and the period during which such officers may occupy a bungalow,
free of rent, is not limited, except by order of the Conservator of Forests.
3. Subordinates of the Forest Department may not make use of a Forest Department bungalow without the written
sanction of the Divisional Forest Officer.
4. An Officer of the Forest Department may temporarily occupy any of the bungalows as a residence, if such a course is
considered by the Conservator to be absolutely necessary for the proper performance of his duties. But an officer so
occupying a bungalow, containing more than one main room shall vacate one room required by another officer of the
Forest Department on duty.
5. (i) A Forest Department bungalow may be occupied by Gazetted Officers of Government, other than Forest Officers,
when travelling on duty, without payment of rent, provided as follows: -
Page 79/89
----- PAGE 80 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
(1)
The bungalow is not required for occupation by an officer of the Forest Department on duty.
(2)
The bungalow is vacated immediately on requisition being made by an officer of the Forest Department intending to
occupy it while on duty.
(3)
When the period of occupation is intended to exceed, or does exceed ten days, the consent of the Divisional Forest
Officer must be obtained in writing and rent will be charged for the period in excess of ten days at the rate specified in
Rule 9 (a).
(ii)
The Officers of the N.C.D.C. and the Forest Department are allowed to occupy Forest Rest House and N.C.D.C. Rest
House respectively, while on duty, on reciprocal basis (Government of Bihar Forest Department No. C/
F-16048/68-3073-V dated 27th/28th August, 1968).
(iii)
The Officers of the Central Government while travelling on duty and occupying Forest Department Bungalows will be
charged rent at the rates specified in Rule 9.
(C.C.F. Bihar memo No. 1824/32 dated 25.5.1943).
6. Divisional Forest Officers are authorised to sanction the occupation of Forest Department Inspection Bungalows,
under the rules applicable to other Gazetted Officers, by non gazetted officers other than of the Forest Department,
travelling on duty temporarily for a specified time, and by name in each case.
7. Gazetted Officers, other than Forest Officers, not travelling on duty and non-officials may temporarily occupy a Forest
Department Bungalow only with the written permission of the Divisional Forest Officer who will fix the period of such
occupation, subject to the conditions laid down in Rule 5.They will be liable for rent at the rates specified in Rule 9.
8. Divisional Forest Officers are competent to reserve accommodation for intending occupants, in cases where
accommodation has not been previously reserved under written order of the Divisional Forest Officer in whose charge
the bungalow is. The senior of the two Officers of other Departments, travelling on duty, is allowed preference. It is,
however, contemplated that preference will ordinarily be exercised with caution and that in any case it will not be
exercised between sunset and sunrise.
Touring officers are advised to ascertain from the Divisional Forest Officer incharge of the bungalow whether
accommodation will be available at the time desired.
9. The following rates of rent will be charged:-
(a)
For occupation under Rules 5 and 6 for every day after the 1st ten days Re 1/-.
(b)
For occupation under Rule 7, Rs. 5/- per room per day or part thereof exceeding 3 (Three) hours but if the period of
occupation is not more than three hours, Re. 1-per room.
(c)
For the below noted Forest Rest House, Lodges and Cottages the scales of fees for occupation under Rule 7 for one
suite of rooms for every twenty four hours or part thereof is as indicated against each.
(i)
Rajaderwa F.R. House.... Rs. 10/- (Rupees ten) only.
(ii)
Cottage No. 1 (Haz. N. Park) Rs. 8/- (Rupees eight) only.
(iii)
Cottage No. 2 (-do-) Rs. 8/- (Rupees eight) only.
(iv)
Tourist Lodge (-do-) Rs. 5/- (Rupees five) only per room. Besides Rs. 21- (Rupees two) per head will be charged for
each additional occupant.
(v)
Canary F.R. (House....Rs. 10/- (Rupees ten) only.
(vi)
Page 80/89
----- PAGE 81 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
Kodarma F.R. House Rs. 8/- (Rupees eight) only.
(vii)
F. R. House at Betla.... Rs. 8/- (Rupees eight) only.
(d)
In the Tourist Rest House at Betla, Palamu National Park, the rent of a suite of rooms would be Rs. 15/- (Rupees fifteen)
only per day. Government servants and Ministers occupying the Tourist Rest House will also pay at the same rate.
(e)
Rupee 1/- (one) per day for the period during which a non-official occupant's belongings remain in the bungalow in the
absence of their owner. This does not apply to the class of occupiers noted in Rules 2 and 5.
(f)
The following rates for electric consumption will be charged from the occupants of the Forest Rest House provided with
electricity:-
(i)
50 paise per day per suite of rooms from the 15th March to 15th October.
(ii)
25 paise per day per suite of rooms from the 15th October to 14th March.
(iii)
If the period of occupation is not more than 3 hours, half of the above rates will be charged. (Forest Department Memo
No. AJF-7057/ 68-2451 V, dated 6th/8th July, 1968).
Note 1. - The first day of occupation shall be reckoned as 24 hours from the time of arrival. Every subsequent period of
24 hours shall count as one day. In reckoning the total rent to be charged, any uncompleted day shall be charged as a
full day.
Note 2. - Husband and wife, when occupying a Forest Department Inspection Bungalow shall be charged separately
though they may be occupying only one room and not using more than one bed. [C.S. No. 91 dated 10.1.1940].
A visitor's book will be kept in each bungalow in which every person occupying the bungalow shall immediately, on
arrival, enter his name, designation or full address and the date and time of his arrival, and before departing, the date
and time of his departure and the amount paid. The book should be shown by the Chaukidar to the Officer-in-Charge of
the bungalow at such intervals as the Conservator prescribes for the purpose.
10. Officers or others who may occupy forest bungalows are required to keep and leave them clean. If they have no
servants of their own or cannot themselves arrange for doing this, they will pay the Chaukidar of the bungalow paise 25
for each day or a portion of a day in addition to the usual fees, and the latter will arrange to keep the bungalow clean
and be responsible that it is kept clean.
11. All persons occupying forest bungalows must make their own arrangements for obtaining water, fuel and supplies.
The bungalow Chaukidar is not to be employed for the purpose.
12. A list showing the valuation of each article of furniture, crockery, glass etc. shall be hung up in the bungalow. The
price of any article lost or broken and the cost of repairing any article damaged by an occupant or his servants should be
raid to the Chaukidar and the fact recorded in the visitor's book.
13. No person suffering from any infectious or contagious disease may occupy any Forest Department Inspection
Bungalow.
103.
Recess (B. & O. Government Letter No. 355 R.T. IIIF-186, dated the 23rd June, 1921).
- The Conservator may, in the interest of the public service, summon or permit to come to his headquarters for not more
than two months in the period 1st June to 31st October, any officer of the Indian Forest Service or any officer of the
Bihar Forest Service subject to the following conditions:-
(a)
That the work of the Forest Department will not suffer by the absence of the Officer from his ordinary charge.
(b)
That no extra expenditure to Government is caused (Officers must defray their own travelling expenses as well as the
travelling allowance of any clerks that they take with them.)
Exception. - An officer of the Indian Forest Service is entitled to travelling allowances at the ordinary rates when he is
allowed by the Conservator of Forests to come to Ranchi from the Saranda, Kolhan and Porahat Forest Divisions for the
Page 81/89
----- PAGE 82 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
recoupment of his health provided the Officer obtains a medical certificate from the Civil Surgeon that a change is
necessary in the interest of his health. The officer will not be entitled to any halting allowance for the period spent at
Ranchi and nor will he be exempted from payment of rent for his residential bungalow at his headquarters for that
period. (Government Order No. 1537-R.T. - IIIF-244, dated the 2nd-5th September, 1922).
(c)
That any Officer shall be liable to be recalled at any time, and, when so recalled, shall bear all charge of his journey to
headquarters.
Note. - The interest of the public service, for the purpose of this Rule includes the safeguarding of the health of the
Officers of the Forest Department.
104.
Visit of Forest Officers to Forest Research Institute
, (Circular No. 13F-190-1, dated 3rd July, 1912, from the Government of India.). - I am directed to invite a reference to
paragraphs 1 (b) and 3 of this Department's Circular no. 7-190-24-F., dated the 24th April 1911, dealing with Resolution
no. XIII passed by the Board of Forestry in March 1910, in which it was recommended that selected forest officers
should be allowed to visit Dehra for the study of any particular subject in which they desire to carry out research work. It
will be seen that the matter was left over for further consideration. Two years have now elapsed since the Board of
Forestry made their recommendation, and during this time the work at the Forest Research Institute has made great
progress. The Government of India consider it is of great importance that all Gazetted Forest Officers should be in touch
with the Research Institute and keep themselves acquainted with the work and investigations which are in progress
there, and, though deputations for special duty have not yet been arranged for, they will be glad to see all promising
officers encouraged to pay short visits to Dehra of, say, ten days or a fortnight, during which time they would be able to
inspect the Museums, the Chemical Laboratory, and the Herbarium. They would thus gain a general knowledge of the
investigations which have been and are being undertaken-and of the widespread effects that these may be expected to
have on the silvicultural treatment of the forests and on the development of forestry in general.
2. Should it be considered desirable that an officer should pay a more extended visit to Dehra for some particular
purpose or with some special object, e.g., to consult the herbarium in connection with the preparation of a local 'Flora' it
will be open to local Governments to allow him to do so and the President, Forest Research Institute, will endeavour to
give him every facility for prosecuting his inquires. During such period of deputation officers would receive their full pay
and allowances, and may be allowed travelling allowance to and from Dehra Dun, but no daily allowance during halt
there. The most convenient time for such visits would be during the monsoon-duly to October-and I am to suggest that
with the permission of His Honour the Lieutenant-Governor, any Forest Officer who wishes to do so, and who it is
considered would profit by such visits, may after consultation with the President, Forest Research Institute and College,
be allowed to visit Dehra on duty for the purpose set forth above.
105.
Hire of Government Elephants.
- When Government elephants are used by an Officer for the carriage of articles for which, if they were carried on a cart,
he would have to pay the hire of that cart, a charge of Rs. 2 per diem shall be made for each elephant so used; but as
for instance, where an elephant carries personal luggage as well as articles, the property of Government, Re. 1 per diem
shall be charged for each elephant. When an Officer goes out on inspection or other such duty in tracts where it is
impossible for him to travel except on an elephant, no charge at all need be made for that elephant.
106.
Recovery of costs of Management of private Forests
, (B. & O. Government Letter No. 876-IIIF-116-R.R., dated 15.9.1930). - The following orders of Government are issued
with regard to the recovery of costs of Management of private Forests under Section 38(1) of the Indian Forest Act,
1927.
1. Where Government undertake preliminary investigation of the Forests without stipulating for payment, the position will
not be altered by the fact that the inquiry did not result in any reservation of forests either because the proposals were
unwelcome to the proprietor or because the Forest Officer reported the forests to be unsuitable.
2. The question whether land-owners who ask the Forest Department to inspect or advise about their forests should be
asked to pay for these services should in each case be considered on its own merits. While Government realize that the
circumstances of small land-holders who would feel the expense, but who are anxious to do the best for their forests,
Page 82/89
----- PAGE 83 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
may require that Government should give these services free of charge, they do not see any reason why the provincial
exchequer should pay for expert advise tendered to wealthy land-holders who are quite capable, and probably willing to
pay for the services of an expert. The Commissioner of the Division concerned should therefore be consulted in the first
instance whether the expert advice should be paid for, or given free in any particular case, and the case should then be
submitted to Government for orders.
3. With regard to the question whether any and, if so, what recoveries should be made from the owners of private estate
forests for the services of a Forest Officer required for a short period to carry out, initiate or demonstrate some technical
work, such as surveying, marking, etc., in forests under the management of a Court of Wards or otherwise, the decision
of Government is that in all such cases (whether any addition is made to the regular establishment or not) the pay and
allowances of the officers deputed for such works, together with contributions for their leave-salary, pension and
passage should be recovered in full. The rate of recovery will be those prescribed in the Government of India, Finance
Department, Letter No. F.L.XI-RI/29, dated the 4th September, 1929, in the case of the officers who are governed by the
Fundamental Rules, and in the Bihar and Orissa Service Code Rule 368 read with Rule 359 and Appendix 19 in the
case of those governed by the Service Code.
When such recoveries are made, the portion representing pay and allowances should be taken as reduction of
expenditure under exception (I) to Rule 3 of Appendix 10A to the Audit Code, Volume II, and that representing leave and
pension contributions should be credited as revenue under VIII-Forests and XXXIII-Receipts in aid of superannuation
under the said rule 3 and foot note (80) in Appendix 7 to the Audit Code as amended by Correction Slip No. 130, dated
the 2nd February, 1930.
107.
Medical Attendance.
- [Government Notification No. 2255-M.R., dated the 12th October, 1920 as amended by Notifications No. 967-L.S.-G.,
dated the 20th January 1923, No. 2385-L. S.-G.R, dated the 26th July 1923, No. 5504-L. S.-G., dated the 6th June
1924, No. 5787-L., S.-G., dated the 1st June 1928, No. 7144-L. S.-G., dated the 31st July, 1928 and No. 3404-L. S-G,
dated the 11th March, 1929]. The following Rules are prescribed for the grant of free medical attendance and supply of
medicine in Bihar and Orissa.
1. Every Government servant is entitled to receive for himself free medical attendance, and such medicines as are
available in the hospital or dispensary at which he is being treated under every circumstance, whether at his own or at
another station, whether passing through his own or another district, and whether on duty or on leave.
Note 1. - Every person employed under the Court of Wards, who is appointed by Government but is paid from the funds
of the Wards Estate, shall be entitled to receive free medical attendance and medicines in those cases only in which the
service counts for pension under the Civil Service Regulations. Road Cess Officers are also entitled to gratuitous
medical attendance and medicines.
Note 2. - A Government servant on foreign service, who has no Medical Officer provided by his foreign employer, is
entitled, in accordance with his status, to the services of the Government Medical Officer of the station in or near which
he is employed. A Government Officer of Gazetted rank employed on foreign service who is not provided by his
employer with a medical attendant of Gazetted rank, shall be entitled to the same concession.
2. The privilege of free medical attendance shall ordinarily include the free supply of medicine.
3. Every Civil Officer of Government is entitled to receive the personal attendance of a Medical Officer in accordance
with the following classification: -
Class.
Entitled person.
Appointed Medical Officer.
1
2
3
A.
Officers of Government whose monthly salary, as defined in
the Civil Service Regulations, is not less than Rs. 300 whether
their appointments are gazetted or not.
Civil Surgeon.
Page 83/89
----- PAGE 84 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
B.
Officers of Government whose monthly salary is less than Rs.
300.
Assistant Surgeon or failing an officer of this rank,
Sub-Assistant Surgeon.
Note 1. - Officers in superior service are entitled to attendance at their own residences unless distance renders this
impracticable. Officers in inferior service and the servants of Government employees can claim free medical attendance
and medicine at the local general hospital or dispensary only.
Note 2. - In all cases of emergency or great danger or difficulty, the attendance of the Civil Surgeon shall be given to
persons not ordinarily entitled to it when applied for by the subordinate medical attendant.
Note 3. - Medical Officers in charge of dispensaries maintained or aided by local bodies shall attend free of charge
Government servants on duty or on leave residing in the town or village in which the dispensary is situated. This
concession does not apply to families of Government servants for attendance on whom fees may be charged.
4. On the grounds of humanity, and irrespective of strict right to his services, every Medical Officer shall attend without
delay to a sick call in any case of emergency and, after having given such aid or advice as the circumstances demand,
may transfer the further treatment of the case to the proper medical attendant.
5. In the case of a Government servant entitled to free medical attendance who is seriously ill, the local Medical Officer
in attendance is permitted to obtain the aid of another Medical Officer in consultation by moving the Inspector-General of
Civil Hospitals to depute another Medical Officer for the purpose. In deputing a Medical Officer the Inspector-General of
Civil Hospitals shall pay due regard alike to considerations of propinquity and to the interests of the patient.
Note. - In a case of real or special urgency, a Medical Officer may, however, call in another Medical Officer, in
anticipation of orders from the Inspector-General of Civil Hospitals, to whom the action taken should be reported without
delay.
6. At places where a Government Medical Officer has not been specially appointed for attendance on Government
servants residing in a particular area, the Assistant or Sub-Assistant Surgeon in charge of the nearest sadr,
subdivisional or mufassal hospital or dispensary is liable to attend gratuitously on such Government servants as are
entitled to free Medical Attendance from a Medical Officer of his status. No fee should be demanded by such Assistant
or Sub-Assistant Surgeon in any circumstances from any Government servant entitled to his attendance.
7. If a Government servant knowingly calls in a Medical Officer other than the appointed Medical Officer, it will be
considered a private arrangement and the former may claim the usual fees.
8. If an officer at the headquarters of district entitled to the service of the Civil Surgeon calls in, with the cognizance of
the Civil Surgeon, the Assistant Surgeon, he shall be liable to pay the latter a fee only if he was warned at the outset of
this liability.
9. No scale of fees has been prescribed for medical attendance on the families of Government servants. To prevent any
subsequent misunderstanding, a definite arrangement should be made in such cases on the first occasion that the
medical officer is called in. In the absence of a special agreement or contract on the basis of a yearly payment, it will be
fair to assume that the Medical Officer's professional services are to be remunerated by the visit.
10. Every patient attending at a charitable hospital or dispensary is entitled to receive advice and medicines free of
charge.
108.
Pasteur Institute.
- The following Rules are prescribed regarding the grant of concessions to Government servants and indigent persons in
Bihar proceedings to the Pasteur Institute at Patna for treatment. (Government Order No. 8708 L.S.G. dated 22nd July
1929 and No. 10200-L.S.G. dated the 11th October 1930.)
Government Servants
1. Any Government servant who has been bitten by a rabid animal may be granted special casual leave not exceeding
one month to enable him to proceed to the Pasteur Institute at Patna provided that his absence does not necessitate the
appointment of a substitute.
2. The additional concessions noted below may be granted for the same purpose to Government servants who have
been bitten by a rabid animal and whose substantive pay does not exceed the' several limits specified: -
(i)
Page 84/89
----- PAGE 85 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
Government servants drawing not less than Rs. 100 and not more than Rs. 500 may be granted-
Concession A. In the case of an Officer whose absence necessities the appointment of a substitute, upto one month,
leave on average pay, which will not be debited against his leave account.
Note:- During the one month's extra leave on average pay granted under this concession the leave salary of a
Government servant in inferior service will not be subject to the usual condition of their being no extra expense to
Government.
Concession B. An Advance of one month's substantive pay.
Concession C. An Advance sufficient to defray their actual travelling expenses to Patna and back, namely-
(a)
A single fare each way by railway of the class by which they are entitled to travel on duty; and
(b)
For journeys by road, boat or steamer, the actual cost of transit not exceeding the amount admissible under the rules
laid down for journeys performed on tour in the rules framed by the local Government.
The sums thus advanced under concessions B and C will ordinarily be recovered in three equal monthly instalments.
But in cases of hardships they may at the discretion of the authority sanctioning the advance be recovered in more than
three but not more than twelve equal monthly instalments.
(ii)
Government servants drawing more than Rs. 25 but less than Rs. 100 a month may be given the following two
concessions (D and E) in additions to concessions A and B above :-
Concession D. Grant of actual travelling expenses to Patna and back, namely a return fare by railway of the class by
which they are entitled to travel on duty and the actual cost, of transit for journeys by road, boat or steamer not
exceeding the amount admissible to them on duty.
Concession E. In cases where the Government servant who has been bitten is a man who is by reason of age or other
sufficient cause, incapable of travelling alone, or a woman, the despatching officer may allow an attendant to
accompany the patient to the institute and back. In special cases more than one attendant may be allowed, e.g., when
the patient is a woman and in addition to one attendant is compelled to take one more children with her. The travelling
expenses of such attendant or attendants will also be paid on the scale allowed for Government servants in concession
D above and in addition, wages-for the attendant or attendants not exceeding 25 paise a day be paid by the despatching
officer in cases where he is satisfied that the patient is unable to pay the daily expenses to the attendant or attendants.
(iii)
Government servant drawing not more than Rs. 25 a month may be given the following two concessions (F and G) in
addition to concession A, B, D and E above:-
Concession F. A grant of daily allowance at the rate admissible to officers of third or fourth grade (as the case may be)
for the period during which they are under treatment at the institute and for the period spent in the Journey to and from
the Institute.
Concession G. In case where an attendant or attendants is or are allowed to accompany the patient to the institute daily
allowance for the attendant or attendants on the scale allowed for the patient in concession F above may be paid in
addition to the travelling expenses and wages allowed in concession E above.
3. The concession of the foregoing Rule may be allowed to the Government servants without a lien on permanent post
who are officiating in a permanent or temporary post provided that their tenure of the appointment is expected to last for
a period sufficient to enable the necessary recoveries to be made.
4. All officers of the Civil Veterinary Department of whatever class are treated as on duty for the purpose of pay,
travelling allowance, leave and pension for the period covered by their journeys to and from the Institute and their
residence there for treatment, subject to the proviso that this concession is admissible only to an Officer who comes into
contact with a rabid or suspected animal, while actually discharging his official duty. But they are not eligible for
Concession C.
5. Families of Government servants. - Any Government servant whose substantive pay does not exceed Rs. 500 a
month may, if a member of his family is bitten by a rabid animal and he has difficulty in finding at once the means of
sending him or her to the Pasteur Institute at Patna, be given an advance of one month's substantive pay as in
Concession B and of the travelling expenses to the institute and back of the person bitten as in Concession C. If his
substantive pay does not exceed Rs. 100 a month an advance of travelling expenses for an attendant or attendants
Page 85/89
----- PAGE 86 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
where necessary may also be given at the rate sanctioned for the patient subject to the same conditions of recovery as
for concessions B and C. If his substantive pay does not' exceed Rs. 50 a month or if in the opinion of the Commissioner
of the Division or the Head of the Department special circumstances exist which warrant the grant of an extended
concession to a person drawing a substantive pay of not more than Rs. 100 a month the recovery of the amount
advanced as travelling expenses may be waived in full or in part.
6. Person unconnected with the public service. - Any indigent person unconnected with the public service who in the
opinion of any officer authorised to grant the concession is unable to proceed to the Pasteur Institute at his own expense
may be granted travelling expenses on the following scale:-
(a)
Single third class fare by rail, and the actual expenses of journey by road, boat or steamer to Patna and back.
(b)
Daily allowance at the following daily rates. - Europeans and Anglo Indians Rs. 1 during the journey and Rs. 2.50 during
treatment; Indians 31 paise during the journey and 31 paise during treatment.
(c)
Indigent person including women, children under 16 years of age, and men who are, by reason of age or other sufficient
cause, incapable of travelling alone may be allowed one attendant to accompany them to the institute except in special
cases, e.g. when the patient is a child unable to travel without the mother or other woman in charge who also requires
an attendant or when the patient is a woman and in addition to one attendant is compelled to take one or more children
with her, more than one attendant may be allowed the cost being borne by the fund to which the charges on account of
the patient are debited. Such attendant or attendants may be granted the travelling expenses and daily allowance at the
rate sanctioned for the patients and also wages not exceeding 25 paise a day, in cases where the despatching Officer is
satisfied that the patient is unable to pay the daily expenses of the attendant or attendants.
7. The Superintendent of the Pasteur Institute may make payments to indigent person who come to the institute at their
own expense but are unable to maintain themselves there or to pay for their return journey. Such payments will be
calculated on the scale prescribed in Rule 6(a) and (b) above and will be charged to the Government of Bihar, the
expenditure being debited to the head "47 Miscellaneous charges-Miscellaneous charges for the treatment of patients at
the Pasteur Institute".
8. Power to grant concessions. - The following Officers and all Officers of superior rank to them in their respective
departments and officers are empowered to grant the concessions referred to in the preceding rules except the daily
allowance and return journey charges which will be paid by the Superintendent of the Institute and will be charged to the
Government of Bihar as indicated in Rule 7 and to authorise the immediate departure for Patna of any Government
servant or indigent person unconnected with the public service :-
Department
Designation of officer.
Empowered to grant concession in respect of
Remarks
1
2
3
4
5. Forest Department
Forest Officers in charge of Division.
Own subordinates only
10. Heads of Departments
All Gazetted Officers,
Own subordinates only
9. The patient will be required to bring back with him a certificate from the Superintendent of the Pasteur Institute and
produce it before the officer under whose orders he was sent for treatment.
10. Vaccine for anti-rabic treatment may be supplied on requisition from the Civil Surgeon of the district for residents
outside the Pasteur Institute at Patna and its centre at Cuttack on payment. A standard charge of Rs. 10 will be made for
sufficient vaccine for each case.
Page 86/89
----- PAGE 87 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
11. All rabies patients from Bihar should be sent for treatment to the Patna where is a centre for such treatment. The
above rules regarding concessions to Government servants and indigent persons for treatment in the Pasteur Institute at
Patna apply mutalis mutandis to Patna".
109.
Travelling Allowance to candidates for an appointment
, (Government Letter No. 496-538 F.R., dated 8.6.1928). - (i) No travelling allowance is allowed for interview with
Selection Boards appointed to select recruits for the regular services.
(ii)
Candidates summoned to interview by Selection Boards in connection with special posts are not allowed travelling
allowance save in exceptional circumstances and with the sanction of Government previously obtained. In such case the
travelling allowance admissible is restricted to a return railway fare.
(iii)
Grant of travelling allowance to Government servants summoned for an interview with a view to being selected for an
appointment under the Government of Bihar should be regulated as follows:-
(1)
When a Government servant appears for an interview before a
selecting authority to whom the application of the Government
servant has been forwarded after a definite act of selection in
his department as required under any Rule or specific orders.
Travelling allowance admissible, Railway:- Actual railway fare
of the class admissible to Government servants of the grade, but
limited to the return fare when return tickets are available.
Road:-When the journey or part of the journey has necessarily
to be performed by road, actual cost limited to the normal road
mileage admissible to Government servants of that grade.
(2)
When a Government servant applies for another post and his
name is sent up as a matter of course by his superior officer who
is not called upon to exercise any act of selection before
sending the application.
No travelling allowance will be admissible.
(Finance Department No. 1146 F.R., dated the 8th August, 1941 vide C.S. No. 185 dated 19.6.1942).
110.
Appointment of Indian non-commissioned officers as Rangers.
- The following Rules are prescribed for the entry into the Forest Department as Rangers of Indian non-commissioned
officers of His Majesty's Indian Army and Indian State Forces.
A. Indian non-commissioned officers of His Majesty's Indian Army.
1. Any such officer who is recommended for the purpose by his Commanding Officer may apply to a Conservator of
Forests* in the province in which he desires to be employed for permission to follow the course of instruction in the
Ranger class at the Forest, College, Dehra Dun, with a view to securing after successfully passing through the College
and obtaining a certificate, an appointment as Forest Ranger in the Subordinate Forest Service.
* Conservator of Forest, Bengal, Darjeeling.
Conservator of Forest, Assam, Shillong.
Conservator of Forest, United Provinces.
Eastern Circle, Naini Tal.
Western Circle, Naini Tal.
Kumaon Circle, Naini Tal.
Working Plan Circle, Naini Tal.
Conservator of Forest, Punjab.
Eastern Circle, Lahore.
Western Circle, Lahore.
Page 87/89
----- PAGE 88 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
2. The Conservator to whom application is made must be satisfied -
(a)
that the candidate will not be more than 30 years of age when he enters the college;
(b)
that he has been sufficiently well-educated, especially in Mathematics and English to be able to follow the college
course, with advantage, and to obtain a Ranger's certificate; and
(c)
that he is of good constitution and active, habits, and possesses fair ability and powers of observation as well as such
physical qualifications as are required for a good Forest officer.
3. If the conditions in the preceding rule are satisfied and the candidate is accepted by a local Government for an
appointment in the Subordinate Forest Service, he may be admitted to the College and be allowed to receive from the
deputing authority the stipend and travelling allowance admissible to Government probationary students under Rules 14
and 15 of the Ranger's course rules. While at the College, with the exception that he need not attended drills, he will, in
all respects, be subject to the Rules for the time being in force a copy of which can be obtained from the President of the
Forest Research Institute.
4. On obtaining a certificate at the conclusion of the Ranger's course, the candidate will be eligible to be appointed as
Ranger. On being so appointed, he will be subject, as regards future promotion, to the regulations of the Forest Service
for the time being. As regards other conditions of service, the candidate will, after the expiry of the period of three
months' absence from his unit, be transferred to the India Unattached List under the conditions laid down in Regulations
for the Army in India, Appendix XXVII, paragraph 29. On obtaining an appointment in the Forest Department if he elects
to remain on the Unattached List, his pension will be assessed under Pay and Allowance Regulations of the Army in
India, Part II, paragraph 598. If he elects to take his discharge from the Army, his pension will be regulated under
Articles 356 and 357 of the Civil Service Regulations, and he will also be permitted to count 12 months of his period of
instruction at the Forest College as service for pension under those Regulations.
B. Indian non-commissioned officers of the Indian State Forces.
1. An Indian non-commissioned officer of the Indian State Forces shall be eligible for admission to the Forest
Department as Ranger provided he can obtain a nomination for an appointment under a local Government or
Administration.
2. Rule 4 of the Rules above, so far as it relates to conditions of military service, will not apply to candidates from the
Indian State Forces.
3.
These Rules do not apply to the provinces of Madras, Bombay and Burma.
(Government of India, Department of Education, Health and Lands, Resolution No. 506-F, dated the 19th April, 1928.)
111.
Out break of disease among Cattle.
- The following instructions should be observed by Forest Officials on the outbreak of disease among cattle in the
Reserved or in the Protected Forests. [Government Letter No. 1197-IIIF-275-R.R., dated 24.10.1930.]
1. Forest subordinates should report immediately to the nearest thana officer any outbreak of cattle disease.
2. Forest Officials should give every assistance to the Veterinary Officer in dealing with the outbreak.
3. Forest Officials should do their best to induce the owner or grazier to bury the carcass of any animal that has died of
disease.
112.
Civil suits and prosecutions against Government Officers.
- The Rules for the conduct of civil suits instituted by or against Government and the Rules for the prosecution of
criminal charges and for the payment of fees to Government pleaders for conducting such cases on behalf of
Government are contained in the Bihar & Orissa Practice and Procedure Manual.
113.
Agreement with Forest Department exempt from stamp duty
, (Extract from Government of India, F. Department (Central Revenues) Notification No. 6 (Stamps) dated the 12th
September, 1931). - The following Agreements made with the Forest Department are exempt from stamp duty payable
under Stamp Act-
Page 88/89
----- PAGE 89 -----
Management and Working of the Forests
(1)
Agreement or security bond required to be executed under the Rules to regulate the training and appointments in the
Subordinate Forest Service by a student and his surety previous to his entry into a Forest School or College in India.
(2)
Instrument in the nature of a conveyance by the Government of standing trees or any other forest produce in a
Government forest; and also the following Instruments:-
(i)
Contract for the collection of minor produce, bark etc.
(ii)
Contract for felling and removing trees.
(iii)
Contract for the collection, removal and disposal of stock in coupes subject to obligation to coppice and clear the area.
(iv)
Contract for purchase of timber or firewood to be felled or cut departmentally.
(v)
Contract of the usufruct of trees and topes.
(vi)
Contract for the felling or cutting and purchase of timber or firewood.
(vii)
Kancha or grazing lease.
(viii)
Agreement for felling and conversion of timber.
(ix)
Agreement for right to collect seigniorage on minor produce brought for sale by hill Tribes.
(x)
Agreement for cultivation under the Taungya system in reserved or protected forests.
(xi)
Agreement for hunting, shooting or fishing in reserved or protected forests.
114.
Rewards for destruction of wild animals.
- The Rules regarding the scale of rewards for the destruction of various classes of wild animals are contained in the
Bihar Treasury Manual.
Notifications
With reference to Notification No., ............. dated .......... published under Section ........... of the [Indian] Forest Act 1927
(XVI of 1927)] at page....................of the Government Gazette of the.....................declaring the......forest to be a
Reserved Forest............is pleased to direct that the following amended and more accurate description of the boundaries
of the said forest be substituted for the description contained in the said notification.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 89/89