
----- PAGE 1 -----
Rules under Clause (c) of Section 17 of the Ranchi Mental Hospital Act, 1922
Rules under Clause (c) of Section 17 of the Ranchi Mental Hospital
Act, 1922
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/53309686/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Bihar - Act
Rules under Clause (c) of Section 17 of the Ranchi Mental Hospital Act, 1922
BIHAR
India
Rules under Clause (c) of Section 17 of the Ranchi Mental Hospital Act, 1922
Rule RULES-UNDER-CLAUSE-C-OF-SECTION-17-OF-THE-RANCHI-MENTAL-HOSPITAL-ACT-1922 of 1922
Published on 1 January 1922
Commenced on 1 January 1922
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 1922.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Rules under Clause (c) of Section 17 of the Ranchi Mental Hospital Act, 1922
1.
Date, time and place of meetings.
- (i) The Board shall meet ordinarily twice in the year.
(ii)
Every meeting of the Board shall be held at the Ranchi Mental Hospital at Kanke on such date and at such time as the
Chairman may determine.
2.
Special meeting.
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
Rules under Clause (c) of Section 17 of the Ranchi Mental Hospital Act, 1922
- The Chairman may, whenever he deems it expedient, and shall, upon the written requisition of not less than two
Trustees, call a special meeting stating the business to be transacted at such meeting.
3.
Notice of meetings.
- One month's notice of the date, place and time of meeting shall be given by the Secretary to each member of the
Board :
Provided that the accidental failure of a notice to reach any member within the prescribed period shall not invalidate the
proceedings of the meeting.
4.
Circulation of list of business.
- The Secretary shall circulate not less than ten days before each meeting to every member of the Board a list of the
business to be treated at such meeting.
5.
President at meetings.
- In the absence of the Chairman, the members present shall elect one of their members to preside at such meeting.
6.
Number required for quorum.
- The quorum necessary for the transaction of business at any meeting shall be five including the Chairman.
7.
Adjournment of meeting.
- If at any meeting, a quorum is not present, the meeting shall stand adjourned to another date to be fixed by the
Chairman. On such date the members present shall transact business irrespective of a quorum.
8.
Order of business.
- Business shall be transacted at meetings in the following order:-
(a)
The minutes of the last ordinary meeting or any special meeting held since shall be read and if approved as correctly
entered shall be signed by the President of such meeting.
(b)
Business postponed from the last ordinary meeting shall be considered.
(c)
Business of which due notice has been given shall be considered.
(d)
Reports and recommendations (if any) of the Managing Committee shall be considered.
(e)
If action has not been taken on any resolution passed at the previous meetings the fact shall be brought to the notice of
the Board if not already circulated by letter.
(f)
With the assent of a majority of the members present business other than stated in the agenda shall be considered.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2