
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Municipal Health Officers' and Sanitary Inspectors' Recruitment Rules
The Municipal Health Officers' and Sanitary Inspectors' Recruitment
Rules
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/99994877/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Bihar - Act
The Municipal Health Officers' and Sanitary Inspectors' Recruitment Rules
BIHAR
India
The Municipal Health Officers' and Sanitary Inspectors' Recruitment Rules
Rule THE-MUNICIPAL-HEALTH-OFFICERS-AND-SANITARY-INSPECTORS-RECRUITMENT-RULES of 1930
Published on 12 February 1930
Commenced on 12 February 1930
[This is the version of this document from 12 February 1930.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Municipal Health Officers' and Sanitary Inspectors' Recruitment Rules
Published vide Notification No. 2146-L.S.-G., dated 12th February, 1930
Bihar and Orissa L.S.-G., Notification No. 2146-L.S.-G., dated 12th February, 1930.-In exercise of the powers conferred
by sub-section (2) of Section 42 of Bihar and Orissa Municipal Act, 1922 (Bihar and Orissa Act VII of 1922), the
Government of Bihar and Orissa are pleased to make the following Rules, prescribing qualifications for health officers
and sanitary inspectors of municipalities,-
1.
These Rules may be Called the Municipal Health Officers' and Sanitary Inspectors' Recruitment Rules.
2.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Municipal Health Officers' and Sanitary Inspectors' Recruitment Rules
In these Rules-
(a)
"Health Officer" means any person appointed to exercise or perform any of the powers or duties of a health officer under
the Act whether in addition to other powers or duties or not;
(b)
"Sanitary Inspector" means the person other than the health officer appointed to perform all or any of the following duties
whether in addition to other duties or not, namely :-
(i)
Supervision of the conservancy of the municipality or of conservancy plant and equipment, or control over the
conservancy staff.
(ii)
Supervision of the water-supply of the town, the maintenance of a register of wells, and the disinfection of the
water-supply in times of epidemics.
(iii)
Supervision of measures taken for the cleanliness and sanitation of cattle sheds, slaughter-house, markets and the
feeding and care of municipal cattle.
(iv)
Supervision of municipal trenching grounds and burning ghats.
(v)
Supervision of measures taken for cleanliness of roads, drains and public thoroughfares, and the construction of minor
works and roads and repairs to drains.
(vi)
The collection of samples of foodstuffs for analysis under the Bihar and Orissa Food Adulteration Act.
(vii)
Supervision of measures taken for the disinfection of houses and other measures of control in connection with epidemic
diseases.
(viii)
The collection and checking of vital statistics.
3.
Qualifications of health officers.
- No person shall be qualified for appointment as a health officer under a municipality with a population of 50,000 or
more unless he-
(i)
possesses a registrable medical qualification from a university or medical college in the United Kingdom or in India;
(ii)
possesses a diploma in public health or a university degree in public health obtained either in the United Kingdom or in
India which is registrable under the Bihar and Orissa Medical Act, 1916; and
(iii)
is registered under the Bihar and Orissa Medical Act, 1916;
"Provided that a municipality may appoint as a health officer on probation any person who is qualified under clauses (i)
and (iii) of this Rule subject to the conditions-(a) that he is required to obtain the qualification prescribed -in clause (ii) of
this Rule within a period of two years from the date of his appointment and (b) that on his failure to obtain the
qualification within the aforesaid period he is discharged."
4.
No person shall be qualified for appointment as a health officer under a municipality with a population of less than
50,000 unless he-
(i)
possesses the license of a licensed medical practitioner from a medical school registrable under the Bihar and Orissa
Medical Act, 1916;
(ii)
possesses the license in Public Health from an institution recognised by Government for the training of L.P.H. which is
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Municipal Health Officers' and Sanitary Inspectors' Recruitment Rules
registrable under the Bihar and Orissa Medical Act, 1916;
(iii)
is registered under the Bihar and Orissa Medical Act, 1916 :
Provided that if a municipality with a population of less than 50,000 is in a financial position to employ a health officer
possessing the qualifications specified in Rule 3, it may employ such an officer instead of health officer possessing the
qualifications specified in Rule 4 :
"Provided further that a municipality may appoint as a health officer on probation any person who is qualified under
clauses (i) and (iii) of this Rule subject to the conditions-(a) that he is required to obtain the qualification prescribed in
clause (ii) of this Rule within a period of two years from the date of his appointment and (b) that on his failure to obtain
the qualification within the aforesaid period he is discharged."
5.
Qualification of Sanitary Inspector.
- No person shall be qualified for appointment as a sanitary inspector under a municipality to which a pay of Rs. 50 or
more is attached unless he possesses the certificate as a sanitary inspector of the first class prescribed in the local
Government's Resolution No. 12770-M., dated the 30th September, 1915:
Provided that if no suitable candidate possessing such certificate is available a municipality may, with the previous
sanction of Government, appoint as a sanitary inspector on probation any person who has either-
(a)
obtained a certificate as a sanitary inspector of the second class; or
(b)
passed the Matriculation Examination of an Indian University or an examination recognised by the local Government as
equivalent thereto; or
(c)
been employed for at least five years on sanitary work by a municipality or a district board and possesses a certificate
from the chairman that he has worked satisfactorily in that employment :
Provided further that such person shall not be confirmed in his appointment as a sanitary inspector unless he obtains the
certificate of a sanitary inspector of first class referred to above within a period to be fixed by Government.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3