
----- PAGE 1 -----
The District Board Assistant Health Officers', Health Inspectors' and Vaccinators' Recruit...
The District Board Assistant Health Officers', Health Inspectors' and
Vaccinators' Recruitment Rules
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/27040834/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Bihar - Act
The District Board Assistant Health Officers', Health Inspectors' and Vaccinators' Recruitment Rules
BIHAR
India
The District Board Assistant Health Officers', Health Inspectors' and Vaccinators' Recruitment Rules
Rule
THE-DISTRICT-BOARD-ASSISTANT-HEALTH-OFFICERS-HEALTH-INSPECTORS-AND-VACCINATORS-RECRUITM
ENT-RULES of 1930
Published on 19 June 1930
Commenced on 19 June 1930
[This is the version of this document from 19 June 1930.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The District Board Assistant Health Officers', Health Inspectors' and Vaccinators' Recruitment Rules
Published vide Notification No. 7405-L.S.-G., dated the 19th June 1930
No. 7405-L.S.-G., dated the 19th June 1930 - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (g) of Section 138 of the
Bihar and Orissa Local Self-Government Act, 1885, the Government of Bihar and Orissa are pleased to make the
following Rules:-
1.
These Rules may be called the District Board Assistant Health Officers', Health Inspectors' and Vaccinators' Recruitment
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The District Board Assistant Health Officers', Health Inspectors' and Vaccinators' Recruit...
Rules.
2.
In these Rules-
(a)
Assistant Health Officer means the officer or officers employed by a district board under the health officer to supervise
and control the public health staff employed in a district or part of a district and to carry out all measures adopted by the
board for the improvement of the sanitation of the area he controls under the health officer, and in the prevention of
disease.
(b)
Health Inspector means the officer or officers employed by a district board under a health officer or assistant health
officer for public health or sanitation work in a district or part of a district.
(c)
'Vaccinator' means any officer employed by a district board to perform the operation of vaccination against small-pox.
3.
No person shall be qualified for appointment as an Assistant Health Officer under a district board unless he-
(a)
is registered under the Bihar and Orissa Medical Act, 1916; and
(b)
possesses either the Diploma in Public Health or the Diploma of Licentiate in Public Health from an institution
recognised by this State Government for imparting training in the D.P.H. or in the L.P.H. course of the D.P.H. and
Hygiene course :
Provided that a district board may appoint as an Assistant Health Officer on probation any person who is qualified under
clause (a) of this Rule subject to the condition that (1) he will be required to obtain the qualification prescribed in clause
(b) of the Rule within a period of five years from the date of his appointment and (2) on his failure to obtain the
qualification within the aforesaid period, he will be liable to be discharged.
4.
No person shall be employed as a Health Inspector in a district board unless he-
(a)
has passed the matriculation examination of an Indian University; and
(b)
has attended a course of instruction at the Health Inspectors' training class at Gulzarbagh and is in possession of
certificate in the prescribed form signed by the Director of Public Health, Bihar and Orissa, to the effect that he has
passed the prescribed examination at the end of the said course.
5.
No person shall be employed as a vaccinator under a district board who is not qualified as a public vaccinator according
to Rules framed by the local Government under clause (a) of Section 33 of the Bengal Vaccination Act, 1880.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2