
----- PAGE 1 -----
The District Board Health Officers' Recruitment Rules
The District Board Health Officers' Recruitment Rules
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/10601079/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Bihar - Act
The District Board Health Officers' Recruitment Rules
BIHAR
India
The District Board Health Officers' Recruitment Rules
Rule THE-DISTRICT-BOARD-HEALTH-OFFICERS-RECRUITMENT-RULES of 1940
Published on 17 July 1940
Commenced on 17 July 1940
[This is the version of this document from 17 July 1940.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The District Board Health Officers' Recruitment Rules
Published vide Notification No. 762-L.S.-G.R., dated the 17th July 1940
Local Self-Government Department Notification No. 762-L.S.-G.R., dated the 17th July 1940. - In exercise of the powers
conferred by Section 138 (g) of the Bihar and Orissa Local Self-Government Act, 1885, and in supersession of the
Rules, published with Notification No. 2144-L.S.-G.R., dated the 18th August, 1926, the Governor of Bihar is pleased to
make the following Rules prescribing qualifications for health officers of district boards :-
1.
These Rules may be called the District Board Health Officer's Recruitment Rules.
2.
In these Rules-
"Health Officer" means any person appointed to exercise or perform any of the powers or duties of a health officer under
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The District Board Health Officers' Recruitment Rules
the Act whether in addition to other powers or duties or not.
3.
No person shall be qualified for appointment as a health officer under a district board unless he-
(i)
possesses a registrable medical qualification from a university or medical college in the United Kingdom or in India;
(ii)
possesses a diploma in Public Health or a university degree in public health obtained either in the United Kingdom or in
India which is registrable under the Bihar and Orissa Medical Act, 1916; and
(iii)
is registered under the Bihar and Orissa Medical Act 1916 :
Provided that a district board may appoint as a Health Officer on probation any person who is qualified under clauses (i)
and (iii) of this Rule subject to the conditions-(a) that he is required to obtain the qualification prescribed in clause (ii) of
this Rule within a period of two years from the date of his appointment and (b) that on his failure to obtain the
qualification within the aforesaid period he is discharged.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2