
----- PAGE 1 -----
Motor Ambulance Rules for (1) Ranchi Sadar Hospital and (2) Darbhanga Medical School Hospi...
Motor Ambulance Rules for (1) Ranchi Sadar Hospital and (2)
Darbhanga Medical School Hospital
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/39002999/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Bihar - Act
Motor Ambulance Rules for (1) Ranchi Sadar Hospital and (2) Darbhanga Medical School Hospital
BIHAR
India
Motor Ambulance Rules for (1) Ranchi Sadar Hospital and (2) Darbhanga Medical School Hospital
Rule
MOTOR-AMBULANCE-RULES-FOR-1-RANCHI-SADAR-HOSPITAL-AND-2-DARBHANGA-MEDICAL-SCHOOL-HOSPI
TAL of 1946
Published on 16 April 1946
Commenced on 16 April 1946
[This is the version of this document from 16 April 1946.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Motor Ambulance Rules for (1) Ranchi Sadar Hospital and (2) Darbhanga Medical School Hospital
Published vide Notification No. 2657-L.S.-G., dated 16th April, 1946
1.
The Ambulance will on requisition be utilised in carrying serious cases to the (1) Government Nursing Home and the
Ranchi Sadar Hospital, and (2) Darbhanga Medical School Hospital and from any locality where there are motorable
roads within the town limits (including Hinoo, Kokar, Namkum and Kanke). Without the special sanction of the
Superintendent it will not be sent to a place which is more than seven/five miles away from the hospital or from where it
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
Motor Ambulance Rules for (1) Ranchi Sadar Hospital and (2) Darbhanga Medical School Hospi...
could not be expected to return within an hour.
2.
Requisition for an Ambulance shall ordinarily be made in writing to the Civil Surgeon/or Deputy Superintendent/Ranchi,
Deputy Superintendent with particulars as to the patient's name, address and distance of the place from the hospital, the
exact time at which the Ambulance is required and the nature of the case. A deposit sufficient to cover the charge as laid
down in the Rules shall accompany the requisition.
3.
In cases of street accident or similar emergency the Ambulance is to proceed at once when summoned without
reference being made to payment and the Superintendent will decide after the case is in hospital whether the charge
should be waived or not.
4.
When more than one requisition is received for the same hour the Deputy Superintendent shall decide where to send
the car.
5.
A charge of annas eight per mile per patient will be made from the. hospital to the patient's residence or other locality
and back. The minimum charge will be Rs. 2. No charge will be made from patients who cannot afford to pay.
6.
The Ambulance will not be detained at the patient's residence for more than 15 minutes. Detention beyond this period
will be charged at annas eight per half hour or fraction thereof.
7.
The Ambulance Driver will be on call throughout the 24 hours and is liable to be required to take the Ambulance to
places at any time of the day or night, if required.
8.
The Ambulance Driver must not absent himself from the hospital premises without notifying his address and in no
circumstances should be more than five minutes' cycle ride away from the hospital without special permission from the
Deputy Superintendent.
9.
The Driver shall not accept or demand any money from patients or their relatives for the services rendered.
10.
The Driver will take the shortest practicable route to and from the hospital. Under no circumstances will he drive the
Ambulance at a speed greater than 15 miles per hour. Whenever the Ambulance is occupied, special care and skill must
be exercised to prevent undue jolting and vibration.
11.
The Driver must wear uniform when driving the car.
12.
The Ambulance Driver will be responsible for the cleanliness of the vehicle and will bring to the notice of the Deputy
Superintendent any repairs that may be necessary or defects in the machinery which he may discover. He will be
responsible for accurate accounting of the consumption of petrol.
13.
The Driver will be personally responsible for any damage to the Ambulance due to his carelessness and may have to
pay the cost, should the Superintendent so consider.
14.
The Ambulance shall not except under very exceptional circumstances be used for carrying patients from one place to
another. In such cases the Superintendent's orders should be obtained.
15.
No infectious cases shall be carried in the Ambulance car.
16.
Patients should not enter into discussion with the Driver of the Ambulance or deal with him directly-all complaints should
be forwarded in writing to the Civil Surgeon, or Deputy Superintendent, Ranchi/Deputy Superintendent.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2