
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Bihar Additional Commissioners (Appointment and Regulation of Functions) Act, 1949
The Bihar Additional Commissioners (Appointment and Regulation of
Functions) Act, 1949
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/52848705/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Bihar - Act
The Bihar Additional Commissioners (Appointment and Regulation of Functions) Act, 1949
BIHAR
India
The Bihar Additional Commissioners (Appointment and Regulation of Functions) Act, 1949
Act 3 of 1949
Published on 12 March 1949
Commenced on 12 March 1949
[This is the version of this document from 12 March 1949.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Bihar Additional Commissioners (Appointment and Regulation of Functions) Act, 1949
Bihar Act
3 of 1949
[Dated 12th March, 1949]
The assent of Governor published in the Bihar Gazette (Extraordinary) dated 12th March, 1949. For 'Statement of
Objects and Reasons' see Bihar Gazette, 1949, Part 5, page 19.
An Act to provide for the appointment of Additional Commissioners in the Province of Bihar and to regulate their
functions.
Whereas it is expedient to provide for the appointment of Additional Commissioners in the Province of Bihar and to
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Bihar Additional Commissioners (Appointment and Regulation of Functions) Act, 1949
regulate their functions;
It is hereby enacted as follows :-
1.
Short title, extent and commencement.
(1)
This Act may be called the Bihar Additional Commissioners (Appointment and Regulation of Functions) Act, 1949.
(2)
It extends to the whole of the [State]
[Substituted by Adaptation of Laws Order.]
of Bihar.
(3)
It shall come into force at once.
2.
Definition.
- In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context, the term "Additional Commissioner" means the
Additional Commissioners of one or more divisions appointed under Section 3.
3.
Appointment and regulation of functions of Additional Commissioner.
- Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in force, the [State]
[Substituted by Adaptation of Laws Order.]
Government may, by notification, appoint any person to be an Additional Commissioner of one or more divisions, and
may from time to time, by like notification, empower such Additional Commissioner to exercise and perform all or any of
the powers and duties conferred and imposed upon a Commissioner by or under any enactment for the time being in
force or by or under any rules, orders, bye-laws or notifications made or issued thereunder.
4.
General powers of transfer and withdrawal.
(1)
A Commissioner may transfer any case, appeal or other proceeding pending before him for trial or disposal to Additional
Commissioners of his Division.
(2)
Such Commissioner may withdraw any case, appeal or other proceeding from, or recall any case, appeal or other
proceeding which he has transferred to any Additional Commissioner.
5.
Repeal and saving.
(1)
The Bihar Additional Commissioners (Appointment and Regulation of Functions) Ordinance, 1949, is hereby repealed.
(2)
All proceedings commenced, persons appointed, all jurisdictions and powers conferred, notifications issued and orders
made under any of the provisions of the said Ordinance shall be continued and be deemed to have been respectively
commenced, appointed, conferred, issued and made under the corresponding provisions of this Act, as if this Act had
commenced on the 26th January, 1949.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2