
----- PAGE 1 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/166338859/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
13
]
State of Bihar - Act
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
BIHAR
India
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
Rule BIHAR-LAND-REFORMS-RULES-1951 of 1951
Published on 16 October 1951
Commenced on 16 October 1951
[This is the version of this document from 16 October 1951.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
Published vide Notification No. 4266, L.R. dated the 16th October 1951, published in the Bihar Gazette, Extraordinary,
of the 22nd October, 1951
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These Rules may be called the Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951.
(2)
They shall come into force at once.
2.
Definitions.
Page 1/79
----- PAGE 2 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
- In these Rules, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context. -
(a)
"The Act" means the Bihar Land Reforms Act, 1950;
(b)
"Form" means a form set out in the Schedule;
(c)
"Section" means a Section of the Act;
(d)
"Schedule" means a schedule appended to these Rules;
(c)
All words and expressions used in these Rules and not defined in these Rules but defined in the Act shall respectively
have the same meanings as assigned to them in the Act.
3.
Mode of service of notice or Order.
(1)
Unless otherwise provided in the Act, any notice or order required to be served under the provisions of the Act shall be
served by delivering or tendering a copy thereof duly signed and sealed, to the person on whom it is to be served or to
his duly authorised agent or to his agent in charge of the estate or tenure or part thereof to which the notice or order
relates. A copy of every such notice or order shall be affixed to the notice boards of the offices of, the Collector of the
district from which the notice is to be issued and of, the Collector of the district in which the notice is to be served.
(2)
Where the person on whom the notice or order is to be served and his agent in charge of the estate or tenure to which
the notice or order relates cannot be found and where such person has no agent empowered to accept service of notice
or order on his behalf, service may be made on any adult member of the family of such person residing with him.
(3)
Where the serving officer delivers or tenders a copy of the notice or order to the person to be served with such notice or
order personally or to an agent or other person on his behalf, he shall require the signature of the person to whom the
copy is so delivered or tendered to an acknowledgement of service to be endorsed on the original notice or order.
(4)
Where the person to be served with notice or order or his agent or such other person as aforesaid refuses to sign the
acknowledgement, or where the serving officer after using all due and reasonable diligence cannot find the person to be
served with the notice or order and there is no agent empowered to accept service of notice or order on his behalf, or
any other person on whom service can be made, service may be made by affixing a copy of the notice or order on the
outer door or some other conspicuous part of the house in which the person to be served with the notice or orders
ordinarily resides of carries on business or personally works for gain or on the outer door of the office or cutchery of the
estate or tenure to which the notice or order relates.
The serving officer shall, in all cases in which the notice or order has been served under this sub-rule endorse or annex,
or cause to be endorsed or annexed, on or to the original notice or order a return stating the date on which and the
manner in which the notice or order was served and the names and addresses of two persons witnessing the service.
(5)
Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing sub-rules the Collector may, if he thinks fit, order that the notice or
order shall be served -
(i)
by sending a copy thereof, duly signed and sealed by registered post with acknowledgement due to the person on whom
such notice or order is to be served; or
(ii)
if the notice or order relates to any estate or tenure, by affixing such notice or order to a conspicuous place in the estate
or tenure to which the notice or order relates.
In the case referred to in clause (i) of sub-rule (5), the posting of the notice or order shall be sufficient proof of the
service of such notice or order on the person concerned.
In the case referred to in clause (ii) of sub-rule (5), a return by the serving officer stating the date of such service
Page 2/79
----- PAGE 3 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
attested by two persons shall be sufficient proof of the service of notice or order on the person concerned.
(6)
Where the person to be served with a notice or order under the Act is a minor or a person of unsound mind, the service
shall be made in the aforesaid manner on the guardian of such minor or person of unsound mind, as the case may be.
3A.
[ Mode of service of a general or public notice or order.
[Inserted by Notification No. 1644 L.R., dated 24.2.1960.]
- Unless otherwise provided in the Act or the Rules, any general or public notice or order required to be served under the
provisions of the Act or the Rules shall be served by affixing a copy of it in the presence of not less than two persons at
some conspicuous public place where the property concerned is situated. The publication of the notice shall also be
announced by the beat of drum in the place where it is published.
The serving officer shall in such case endorse or annex, or cause to be endorsed or annexed on or to the original notice
a return stating the date on which, and the manner in which the notice was published and the names and addresses of
the two persons witnessing or attesting the publication].
4.
[ Form of notice under clauses (g), (h), (hh), and (i) of Section 4.
[Inserted by Notification No. 1644 L.R., dated 24.2.1960.]
- A notice under clause (g) of Section 4 shall be in Form A, the notices under cause (h) of Section 4 shall be in Forms B,
B(1) and B(2), notices under clause (hh) of Section 4 shall be in Forms B(3) and B(4) and the notice under clause (i) of
Section 4 shall be in Form C.
The notices in Forms A, B (1) B(2), B(4) and C shall be served in the manner provided in Rule 3, and the general notice
in Forms B and B(3) shall be served in the manner provided in Rule 3-A.]
4A.
[ Procedure of disposal of appeals under the proviso to return 4(cc), proviso to Section 4(g), first proviso to Section 4(h),
the proviso to Section 4(hh) and Section 8.
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 73, dated 30.5.1973.]
- The procedure to be followed by the appellate authority in disposing of appeal under the proviso to clause (cc) of
Section 4, proviso to clause (g) of Section 4, first proviso to clause (h) of Section 4, the proviso to clause (hh) of Section
4 and Section 8 shall, so far as may be, be the same as is provided for civil appeals in the Rules under Order XLI of the
Code of Civil Procedure 1908.]
4B.
[ Appellate Authority under the proviso to Section 4(cc), the first proviso to Section 4(h) and the proviso to Section 4(hh).
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 73, dated 30.5.1973.]
- An appeal against an order of the Collector under the proviso to clause (cc) of Section 4, the first proviso to clause (h)
of Section 4 and under the proviso to clause (hh) of Section 4 shall lie, -
(i)
if such order is passed by any officer below the rank of the Collector of a district, to the Collector of district; and
(ii)
if such order is passed by the Collector of the district, to the Commissioner of the Division.]
5.
Determination of fair and equitable rent under Section 5.
- In determining the ground rent payable by a proprietor or tenure-holder under the proviso to sub-section (i) of Section 5
for homesteads which are used by such proprietor or tenure holder for the purpose of letting out on rent, the Collector
shall have regard to the average rent payable by occupancy raiyats as rent in respect of homesteads of a similar
description and with similar advantages in the vicinity or, where no such homestead exists, to the average rent payable
by occupancy raiyats in respect of the land of similar description and with similar advantages in the vicinity.
[Explanation. - The expression 'average rent' shall mean the average of ground-rents which were paid during the
previous agricultural year for homestead lands of a similar description and with similar advantages in the vicinity or,
where no such homestead lands exist, the average of money-rent which were paid by occupancy raiyats during the
previous agricultural year for lands of a similar description and with similar advantages in the vicinity.]
[Added by Notification No. 3565 L.R. dated the 24th August 1953, published in Bihar Gazette, Extraordinary, of the 10th
Page 3/79
----- PAGE 4 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
September, 1953.]
6.
Determination of fair and equitable rent under Section 6.
- In determining the rent payable by a proprietor or tenure-holder in respect of lands left in his possession under Section
6, the Collector shall have regard to the average rate of rent payable by occupancy raiyats for lands of a similar
description and with similar advantages in the vicinity.
[Explanation. - The expression 'average rate of rent' shall mean the average of money-rents which were paid during the
previous agricultural year by occupancy raiyats for lands of a similar description and with similar advantages in the
vicinity.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 119 dated 15.11.1972.]
7.
[ Determination of fair and equitable rent under Sections 7, 7-D and 7-F.
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 119 dated 15.11.1972.]
- In determining fair and equitable ground rent. -
(i)
payable by a proprietor or tenure-holder under Section 7 in respect of lands on which buildings or structures other than
buildings used primarily as office or Kutcheries and, or
(ii)
payable by the owner of an industrial undertaking who is a settlee as mentioned in Section 7-D or Section 7-F in respect
of lands and buildings or structures therein, which are the subject-matter of such settlement, the Collector shall have
regard to the average rate of rent payable by tenants for lands, buildings or structures of a similar description and with
similar advantages in the vicinity:
Provided that if no lands, buildings or structures of similar description and with similar advantages be available in the
vicinity of the lands, buildings or structures of the class mentioned in clause (ii), the Collector shall determine fair and
equitable ground rent on the basis of the average rate of rent prevailing in other parts of the town or village in which the
concerned land belonging to the industrial undertaking is situate.
Explanation. - The expression 'average rate of rent' shall mean the average of money rents which where paid for lands
of a similar description and with similar advantage in the vicinity.]
7A.
[ Procedure of determining fair and equitable rent and ground rent under Rules 5, 6, 7, 7-D and 7-F.
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 119 dated 15.11.1972.]
- For the purpose of determining fair and equitable rent and ground rent in respect of certain lands or buildings deemed
to be settled with a proprietor or tenure-holder under Sections 5, 6, 7, 7-D and 7-F, the Collector shall observe the
procedure laid down in Rules 7-B to 7(I).]
7B.
[ Form and manner of application - Form K.
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 119 dated 15.11.1972.]
- (i) The Collector may, on receipt of a report, or of his own motion, by a written order served in the manner provided in
Rule 3, require each outgoing proprietor or tenure holder of an estate or an industrial undertaking of an estate or tenure
vested in the State to file an application before him in Form K furnishing therein a complete and accurate statement and
description of all such lands lying with his jurisdiction, as may be deemed to have been settled by the State with such
proprietor or tenure-holder or the industrial undertaking under Sections 5, 6, 7, 7-D and 7-F, determination of fair and
equitable rent or ground rent thereof.
(ii)
An outgoing proprietor or tenure-holder of an estate or tenure vested in the State may, of his own motion, and without
being so required by the Collector by an order referred to in sub-rule (i) above, file such application before the Collector
furnishing the particulars prescribed in Form K.
(iii)
An application under sub-rule (i) or (ii) above shall for the purposes of fees payable under the Court-fees Act, 1870 be
deemed to be an application referred to in the second paragraph of clause (b) of Article 1 of Schedule II to the said Act
and shall also be verified in the manner prescribed for verification of a plaint under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 by
Page 4/79
----- PAGE 5 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
the applicant or his agent duly authorised in this behalf.
(iv)
If an outgoing proprietor or tenure-holder or industrial undertaking of an estate or tenure vested in the State fails to file
an application in Form K under sub-rule (i) or (ii), Collector may, of his own motion, take such action as may be deemed
necessary for obtaining complete and accurate information for the purpose of determining fair and equitable rent and
ground-rent, under Sections 5, 6, 7, 7-D and 7-F.]
7C.
Settlement proceeding to be started in each case - Register 8 (Miscellaneous cases).
- A separate proceeding will be started in respect of each case in which the Collector takes action under sub-rule (i) or
for each application filed under sub-rule (ii) [or in such case in which the Collector takes suo motu action under sub-rule
(iv) of Rule 7-B]
[Inserted by Notification No. 1644. L.R. dated 24.2.1960.]
. Each proceeding will form a separate miscellaneous revenue record to which an order-sheet prescribed in Rule 129 of
the Bihar Record Manual, 1941 (Schedule XIV - Form No. 562) will be attached, such case record will bear a serial
number, and will be entered in 'Register 8 - Miscellaneous Cases prescribed at page 17 of the Bihar and Orissa Register
and Return Manual, 1932.
7D.
General notice - Mode of service - Form L.
- (i) The Collector shall on receipt of an application under sub-rule (i) or [(ii) or after taking suo motu action under
sub-rule (iv) of Rule 7-B]
[Inserted by Notification No. 1644, L.R. dated 24.2.1960.]
, issue a general notice in Form L fixing a date, time and place for enquiry with calling upon all persons interested or
concerned, to attend such enquiry with such evidence as they may like to produce in support of their claims or
objections, if any.
(ii)
A general notice prescribed in sub-rule (i) shall be served by posting a copy of it in the presence of not less than two
persons at some conspicuous place in each village comprising the lands under settlement as well as by beat of drum.
Such notice shall be served at least fifteen days previous to the date fixed for enquiry.
(iii)
The serving officer shall, in such a case, endorse or annex or cause to be endorsed or annexed, on or to the original
notice a return stating the date on which, and the manner in which, the notice was served and the names and addresses
of two persons witnessing or attesting the service.
7E.
Holding of enquiry, irrespective of any claim or objection - Preparation of a report.
- Particulars to be included in the report - On the date or dates fixed for enquiry, the Collector shall, personally or
through [a Kanungo or a Circle Inspector]
[Substituted by Notification No. 1644, L.R. dated 24.2.1960.]
, hold an enquiry irrespective of any claim or objection having been received or not, and prepare a report including,
amongst others, the following particulars:
(i)
Description and extent of the homesteads, referred to in the proviso to sub-section (1) of Section 5, which are found on
enquiry to have been used by the outgoing proprietor or tenure-holder for the purpose of letting out on rent, together with
the average rate of ground rent which the Enquiry Officer considers to be fair and equitable.
(ii)
Description and extent of lands used for agricultural or horticultural purposes, referred to in sub-section (1) of Section 6,
which are found on enquiry to have been in Khas possession of the outgoing proprietor or tenure-holder on the date of
vesting together with the average rate of rent which the Enquiry officer considers to be fair and equitable.
(iii)
Description and extent of the proprietor's private land under a temporary lease in conformity with the provisions of
Section 116 of the Bihar Tenancy Act, 1885, referred to in clause (a) (i) of subsection (1) of Section 6, together with the
average rate of rent which the Enquiry Officer considers to be fair and equitable;
Page 5/79
----- PAGE 6 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
(iv)
Description and extent of the landlord's privileged lands under a temporary lease in conformity with the provisions of
Section 43 of the Chhota Nagpur Tenancy Act, 1908 together with the average rate of rent which the Enquiry Officer
considers to be fair and equitable;
(v)
Description and extent of lands used for agricultural or horticultural purposes, referred to in clause (b) of sub-section (1)
of Section 6, which are found on enquiry to have been held under the direct possession of a temporary lessee of the
estate or tenure, together with the average rate of rent which the Enquiry Officer considers to be fair and equitable;
(vi)
Description and extent of lands used for agricultural or horticultural purposes and in the possession of a mortgagee,
referred to in clause (c) of sub-section (1) of Section 6, which are found on enquiry to have been in Khas Possession of
the outgoing proprietor or tenure holder immediately before the execution of the mortgage bond, together with the
average rate of rent which the Enquiry Officer considers to be fair and equitable;
(vii)
[ Description and extent of buildings or structure together with the lands on which they stand, other than any buildings
used primarily as office or Cutchery, referred to in sub-section (1) of Section 7 or Section 7-D or Section 7-F, which are
found on enquiry to have been in possession of the outgoing proprietor or tenure-holder or as the case may be of the
industrial undertaking or other industrial unit of the vested estate, at the commencement of the Act and sub-section (1)
of Section 7-D or Section 7-F before the 1st day of January, 1946, together with the average rate of ground-rent which
the Enquiry Officer considers to be fair and equitable.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 119, dated 15.11.1972.]
7F.
Disposal of claims or objections, if any.
- Where any claims or objections are filed the Collector shall personally or through a Gazetted Officer, enquire into such
claims or objection prepare a report of his finding and the decision which he makes in accordance with the provisions of
sub-section (2) of Section 5, sub-section (2) of Section 6, or sub-section (2) of Section, 7, as the case may be.
7G.
Fixation of fair and equitable rent or ground rent under Rules 5, 6 and 7.
- The Collector shall consider the report of enquiry held under Rule 7-E or 7-F and pass an order fixing the fair and
equitable rent or ground rent under Rules 5, 6 and 7, as the case may be, if it is proved to his satisfaction that -
(i)
The homesteads referred to in the proviso to sub-section (1) of Section 5 were used by the outgoing proprietor or
tenure-holder for the purpose of letting out on rent;
(ii)
the lands referred to in sub-section (1) of Section 6 were in Khas possession of the outgoing proprietor or tenure-holder
on the date of vesting;
(iii)
the proprietor's private lands or privileged lands or other lands let out under a temporary lease referred to in clauses (a)
or (b) of subsection (1) of Section 6, were in the possession of such temporary lessee on the date of vesting;
(iv)
the lands in the possession of a mortgagee, referred to in clause (c) of sub-section (1) of Section 6, were in the
possession of such mortgagee on the date of vesting.
(v)
[ The buildings or structures together with the lands on which they stand referred to in sub-section (1) of Section 7, or in
Sections 7-D and 7-F, which were in Khas possession of the outgoing proprietor or tenure-holder or industrial
undertaking or other industrial unit of the vested estate, at the commencement of the Act, and were used by such
proprietor or tenure-holder or industrial undertaking or other industrial unit as Golas, factories, or mills or for other
purposes referred to in sub-section (1) of Section 7 or Section 7-D or Section 7-F before the first day of January, 1946.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G.S.R. 119 dated 15.11.1972.]
7H.
[* * * * *]
Page 6/79
----- PAGE 7 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
[Omitted by Notification No. G.S.R. 10 dated 24.1.1970.]
7I.
Preparation of Rent-roll - Form M.
- The fair rent or ground rent determined under these Rules in each proceeding together with the requisite particulars
shall be entered in Form M Rent-roll under the signature of the Collector. Such Rent-roll shall form a part of the case
record to which it relates.
7J.
[ Procedure for settling fair and equitable rent in any area where record-of-rights is being prepared under Chapter X of
Act 8 of 1885.
[Inserted by Notification No. 1644, L.R. dated 24.2.1960.]
- In any area where the record-of-rights is being prepared under Chapter X of the Bihar Tenancy Act, 1885, the fair and
equitable rent or gound-rent of any land payable under Sections 5, 6 or 7 may, notwithstanding anything contained in
Rules 5 to 7 and Rules 7-A to 7-I be settled under Section 109-C of the said Act.]
7K.
to 7U.
[x x x x]
[Omitted by G.S.R. 62 dated 19.9.1981.]
8.
[ Appellate Authority under Section 8.
[Substituted by Notification No. 1644 L.R. dated 24.2.1960.]
(1)
An appeal against an order of the Collector under Section 5(2) or Section 6 or 7 shall lie -
(i)
if such order is passed by any officer below the rank of an Additional Collector, to Additional Collector;
(ii)
if such order is passed by any Additional Collector, to the Collector of the district; and
(iii)
if such order is passed by the Collector of a district, to the Commissioner of the division.
(2)
The procedure to be followed by the Appellate Authority in disposing of appeals under sub-rule (1) shall, so far as may
be, the same as is provided for civil appeals in the Rules under Order XU of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908.]
9.
Procedure to be followed by Tribunals appointed under Sections 12(3) [* *]
[Omitted by Notification No. G.S.R. 73, dated 30.5.1973.]
and 31.
- The procedure to be followed by the Tribunal appointed under sub-section (3) of Section 12, [* * *]
[Omitted by Notification No. G.S.R. 73, dated 30.5.1973.]
or under [Section 31]
[Inserted by Notification No. G.S.R. 1644-LR, dated 24.2.1960.]
shall be as follows :-
(1)
A substance of the oral evidence tendered before the Tribunal shall be recorded by the Chairman in the English
language and shall form part of the record.
(2)
On the day fixed for the hearing of the case or any other day to which the hearing may be adjourned, the proprietor or
tenure holder shall briefly state his case and produce evidence in support of his case.The Collector or his representative
shall then state his case and produce evidence, if any, and may then address the Tribunal generally on the whole
case.The party beginning may then reply generally on the whole case:
Provided that the Tribunal may admit any evidence at any stage before pronouncing the award.
(3)
The Tribunal shall, after hearing the case, proceed to make its award or order either at once or on some future date to
Page 7/79
----- PAGE 8 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
which the case may be adjourned.
(4)
If on any matter there be no procedure prescribed by the Rules, the procedure laid down in the Code of Civil Procedure,
1908, applicable to a suit, shall be followed by the Tribunal.
10.
Manner of notification of claims by creditor - [Section 14].
(1)
Every creditor, whose debt is secured by the mortgage of, or is a charge on any estate or tenure or part thereof vested
in the State under Section 4 [or 3A]
[Inserted by Notification No. 1644 L.R., dated 24.2.1960.]
may, within six months of the date of such vesting or the date on which such creditor is dispossessed under the
provisions of clause (g) of Section 4, or within three months from the date of appointment of the Claims Officer,
whichever date is later, notify his claim by filing a petition in writing before the Claims Officer giving the following
particulars of his claim, namely :-
(i)
name and address of the creditor;
(ii)
name and address of the proprietor or tenure-holder, as the case may be;
(iii)
amount of the principal advanced;
(iv)
number of Tauzi and Khewat number of the estate or tenure mortgaged or charged (if a part of an estate or tenure is
mortgaged or charged, the share mortgaged or charged should be stated here);
(v)
a certified or true copy of the document forming the basis of the claim;
(vi)
the amount of interest or the total of the profits from the mortgaged property already realised by the creditor and time or
times of realisation of such interests or profits; and
(vii)
any other particulars which may be necessary for the determination of the claim.
(2)
The petition of claim shall be filed in duplicate and shall be verified in the manner laid down in the Code of Civil
Procedure, 1908 for the verification of plaints.
11.
Determination of amount due to creditor - [Section 16].
(1)
On receipt of the statement of claims, the Claims Officer shall serve a notice [in Form O (1)]
[Inserted by Notification No. 1644 L.R., dated 24.2.1960.]
on the proprietor or tenure-holder of the estate or tenure together with a copy of the statement of claims filed by the
creditor under Rule 10 and call upon the proprietor or tenure-holder to file a written statement within 15 days of the
service of the notice or such further times as the Claims Officer may allow. If the claim is admitted by the proprietor or
tenure-holder, the Claims Officer shall determine the principal and the interest in the manner provided in sub-section (2)
of Section 16.
(2)
If the claim is not admitted, the Claims Officer shall give reasonable opportunities to both the parties for producing
evidence and of being heard and then proceed to determine the principal and interest in the manner provided in
subsection (2) of Section 16. If the proprietor or tenure-holder fails to submit his written statement without any just or
reasonable ground within the period allowed by sub-rule (1), the Claims Officer may proceed to determine the claim
ex-parte.
(3)
The Claims Officer shall record a summary of the evidence tendered and briefly state the reasons for coming to a
Page 8/79
----- PAGE 9 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
decision regarding the principal amount and interest.
(4)
Save as is otherwise expressly provided in these Rules, the Claims Officer shall, in hearing and disposing of claims filed
under Section 14, follow, so far as may be, the same procedure as is provided in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, for
the hearing and disposal of suits;
12.
Rate of interest admissible under Section 16(2)(e).
- The rate of interest admissible under clause (e) of sub-section (2) of Section 16 shall be as follows, namely :-
(a)
3 Per centum per annum simple interest, if the principal ascertained exceeds Rs. 50,000 but in no case shall the amount
of interest calculated on any such principal be less than the amount calculated on any such principal under clause (b);
(b)
4 per centum per annum simple interest, if the principal ascertained exceeds Rs. 10,000 but does not exceed Rs.
50,000, but in no case shall the amount of interest calculated on any such principal be less than the amount calculated
on any such principal under clause (c);
(c)
5 per centum per annum simple interest, if the principal ascertained exceeds Rs. 5,000 but does not exceed, Rs.
10,000, but in no case shall the amount of interest calculated on any such principal be less than the amount calculated
on any such principal under clause (d);
(d)
6 per centum per annum simple interest, if the principal ascertained is Rs. 5,000 or less than Rs. 5,000.
12A.
[ Co-ordination between the Claims Officer and the Compensation Officer under Section 24(5).
[Inserted by Notification No. 1644 L.R., dated 24.2.1960.]
- Where the interest of an intermediary is subject to a mortgage or charge, the Claims Officer shall, immediately after the
creditor holding such mortgage or charge submits his claim in writing in respect thereof to the Claims Officer under
Section 14(1), send an intimation of the claim to the Compensation Officer concerned with a copy of the petition of claim
filed by the creditor before the Claims Officer under Rule 10.
(2)
On receipt of the intimation about any claim under sub-rule (1) the Compensation Officer shall communicate to the
Claims Officer concerned the amount of compensation tentatively determined by him in respect of such interest, and
shall not finally determine the amount of compensation in respect there of till the amount of debt payable to the said
creditor, or if there are more than one creditor, the amount of debt payable to each creditor, under Chapter IV of the Act,
is communicated to him by the Claims Officer under sub-rule (3) for the purpose of adjustment under Section 24(5).
(3)
For the purpose of ensuring that the total amount of debt payable under Chapter IV of the Act does not exceed the
amount of compensation payable in respect of such interest, as provided in Section 24(5) the Claims Officer shall
communicate to the Compensation Officer concerned the amount of principal and interest, if any, payable to the creditor,
or if there are more than one creditor, the amount of principal and interest, if any, payable to each creditor in respect of
such interest under Chapter IV that may have been tentatively determined by him, keeping in view the amount of
compensation tentatively determined by the Compensation Officer and communicated by him to the Claims Officer
under sub-rule (2).]
13.
Disposal of appeals under sub-section (2) of Section 18.
- In hearing and disposing of appeals filed under Section 17, the Board shall so far as may be, follow the same
procedure as is provided in the Rules under Order XLI, of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 for the disposal of Civil
appeals.
14.
[ Procedure for ascertaining gross assets under Section 22.
[Substituted by Notification No. 7369 L.R., dated the 28th/30th September, 1959.]
(1)
Page 9/79
----- PAGE 10 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
The rent shall be determined under paragraph (ii) of clause (2)(b) of Section 22 in respect of Gairmazrua Khas, or
Gairmazrua malik or parti lands appertaining to an estate or tenure of a proprietor or tenure-holder vested in the State
on the basis of the rents recorded by the lowest class of land in the last survey settlement records and where there is no
such records, shall be fixed on the basis of the existing rental for similar lands in the vicinity.
(2)
In determining the annual rent under paragraph (iv) of clause (2) (b) of Section 22 in respect of a building or portion of a
building used primarily as office or Kutchery for the collection of rents, the Collector shall after such enquiry as he deems
reasonable, ascertain the annual rental according or likely to accrue for similar buildings in the vicinity. The amount thus
ascertained after deducting therefrom a sum equivalent to 25 per cent in lieu of depreciation and cost of maintenance
shall be deemed to be the annual rent for such building or portion of such building.
(3)
Where the order for the partial or entire remission of rent has been passed under clause (c) of sub-section (1) of Section
112-A of the Bihar Tenancy Act, 1885, or under clause (c) or clause (d) of Section 33-A of the Chota Nagpur Tenancy
Act, 1908, in respect of any land the average rent payable for the land during the ten agricultural years preceding the
agricultural year in which the date of vesting falls shall be deemed to be the rent determined for the land under
paragraph (v) of sub-section (b) of clause (2) of Section 22:
Provided that the "average rent" in respect of any land affected by the Kosi floods shall be deemed to be 50 per cent of
the annual rent payable before abatement unless the landlord proves that the average rent realised by him during the
period of twenty years preceding the agricultural year in which the date of vesting falls is more than 50 per cent of the
annual rent payable before abatement and in that case the average annual rent realised during the said twenty years
shall be deemed to be the average rent.]
15.
Mode of preparation of the Compensation Assessment Roll.
(1)
The Compensation Officer shall issue a notice in Form D to each proprietor and each tenure-holder calling upon him to
file a return furnishing the particulars and information on the point specified in the said notice within a period not
exceeding one month from the date of service of such notice or such further time as the Compensation Officer may
allow. The net income of a proprietor or tenure-holder shall be calculated in Form E.
(2)
The Compensation Officer shall prepare Compensation Assessment Roll in Form G for each compensation-holder. If the
interest of a proprietor or tenure-holder lies within the jurisdiction of more than one Compensation Officer, the
Compensation Officer of the area in which such proprietor or tenure-holder re-sides or, if he is a person residing outside
the State, the Compensation Officer of the area in whose jurisdiction he has the largest amount of income shall calculate
the net income and prepare the Compensation Assessment Roll.
(3)
The Compensation Officer shall give reasonable opportunity to the proprietors, tenure-holders and other persons
concerned to be heard and to place before him evidence before finalising the roll. He shall record a brief summary of the
evidence and record his finding.
15A.
[ Rates of deduction on account of the cost management where the gross asset exceeds Rs. 15,000.
[Inserted by Notification No. 1644 L.R., dated 24.2.1960.]
- For the purposes of computing the net income under Section 23, where the gross asset of an intermediary exceeds Rs.
15,000, the cost of management shall subject to the proviso to clause (e) of subsection (1) of the said Section be
calculated at the following rates, namely :-
Amount of gross asset
Rates
(1)
Where the gross asset exceeds Rs. 15000 but does not exceed
Rs. 50,000.
...
15 per centum of such gross asset
Page 10/79
----- PAGE 11 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
(2)
Where the gross asset exceeds Rs. 50,000 but does not exceed
Rs. 1,00,000
...
17 ½ per centum of such gross asset.
(3)
Where the gross asset exceeds Rs. 1,00,000.
...
20 per centum of such gross asset.]
15B.
[ Inflation in the returns by outgoing superior landlords of amounts of rent and cess alleged to be realised from their
immediately subordinate tenure holders.
[Inserted by Notification No. 1644 L.R., dated 24.2.1960.]
(1)
Where any outgoing superior landlord has filed returns in compliance with the notice (Form D) under Rule 15, or under
Section 3-B(3) showing the amounts of rent and cess payable to him by his immediately subordinate tenure-holders, the
Compensation Officer shall verify in each case whether these amounts have been inflated with an ulterior motive to get
higher compensation. For this purpose, the Compensation Officer will find out the names of such subordinate
tenure-holders and ascertain if they have also filed similar returns in respect of their own tenures. If so, the
Compensation Officer will verify the amounts of rent and cess payable to the superior landlord in respect of the
subordinate tenures, as shown in the returns filed by the subordinate tenure-holders, with the amounts of rent and cess
payable to the superior landlord by his immediately subordinate tenure-holders, as shown in the superior landlord s
return. Where these two figures tally, it may be presumed that the amounts of rent and cess, as shown in the superior
landlord's returns, are correct, and have not been inflated. But where these figures do not tally and particularly, when the
superior landlord's figures are higher than those of his immediately subordinate tenure-holders, an inflation of figures as
shown in the superior landlord's returns, may be presumed, and shall be enquired into, to ascertain the correct figures.
In such a case, the Compensation Officer shall require, under Section 40, both the parties to file by an appointed date,
the documents, viz. counterfoils of rent-receipts, jamabandis, rent-receipts, certified copies of judgments and decrees in
rent suits, if any etc. on which they rely, and examine them along with the relevant Khewat-Part III and find out correct
amounts of rent and cess payable to the superior landlord in respect of the subordinate tenures in question.
(2)
Where no such returns have been filed by the immediately subordinate tenure-holders, the Compensation Officer shall
require them under Section 40 to produce their rent-receipts as well as other documents showing the correct amounts of
annual rent and cess payable by such subordinate tenure-holders to their superior landlords. In addition, the
Compensation Officer shall examine the relevant Khewat - Part III, and shall also call upon such defaulting
tenure-holders to file by an appointed date, their returns in respect of their own tenures, and on receipt thereof shall
proceed with the verification in the manner provided in sub-rule (1).]
16.
Determination of money value of service or obligation to which an estate or tenure is subject - Section 23(1)(i)(g).
- Where an estate or tenure is held in lieu of the performance of any service or obligation ordinarily performed on
payment of remuneration, or where the estate, or tenure is held burdened with any service or obligation, the service or
obligation shall be commuted into cash on the basis of the average money value of such service or obligation for the last
preceding ten years.
17.
Apportionment of compensation between lessees and superior land-lords under Section 24(2).
- The holder of a temporary lease of an estate or tenure shall, by way of compensation, be entitled to the advance, if
any, made by him [* * *]
[The words and figures 'together with a sum equivalent to 50 per centum of the legally recoverable arrears of rent due to
him' omitted by Notification No. 4017-LR, dated 31.5.1962.]
. The unexpired period of the lease shall be considered only when any advance adjustable on expiry of the term of the
lease has been made by the temporary lessee. In such a case the amount of such advance shall be reduced in the
Page 11/79
----- PAGE 12 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
same proportion as the unexpired period of the lease bears to the total period thereof. The compensation payable to the
temporary lessee shall be calculated in Form H.
18.
Computation of compensation for mines and minerals under Section 25 (1).
- The Compensation Officer shall issue a notice to the proprietor or tenure-holder in respect of royalties on account of
mines and minerals or in respect of income from mines worked directly by him comprised in the estate or tenure, calling
upon such proprietor or tenure-holder as the case may be, to file a return within 30 days of the service of the notice or
such further time as may be allowed by the Compensation Officer, furnishing the following particulars, namely :-
(a)
description of mines and minerals;
(b)
boundaries of the mines;
(c)
name of the estate or tenure in which the mine is situated;
(d)
gross annual income from royalties or gross income from mines worked directly by the proprietor or tenure-holder, as
the case may be, during each of the previous 12 years on the basis of the annual returns filed by the proprietor or
tenure-holder, as the case may be, for the assessment of cess or income-tax during the period of 12 agricultural years
preceding the agricultural year in which the date of vesting falls or any shorter period for which returns have been filed;
and
(e)
income-tax [and cess]
[Inserted by Notification No. 1644 LR. dated 24.2.1960.]
paid and payable every year on the royalty on the gross income from mines, as the case may be.
(2)
On receipt of the returns, under sub-rule (1), the Compensation Officer shall proceed to determine the net annual
income in [Form F.,]
[Substituted by Notification No. 1644 LR. dated 24.2.1960.]
19.
Computation of net income from mines and minerals and determination of compensation payable therefor - Section
25(2).
- In computing the net income of a proprietor or tenure-holder under sub-section (2) of Section 25 from royalty [* * *]
[Repealed by Notification No. 1644 LR. dated 24.2.1960.]
the deduction to be made from the gross income on account of cost of collection shall be at the following rate, namely :-
(a)
where the gross income exceeds Rs. 50,000 - 10 per cent of such gross Income;
(b)
where the gross income exceeds Rs. 25,000 but does not exceed Rs. 50,000 - 8 per cent of such gross income;
(c)
where the gross income is Rs. 25,000 or below - 4 per cent of such gross income:
Provided that the deduction shall be subject to marginal adjustment in whole rupee, so that the net income of a
proprietor or tenure-holder falling within a higher income group is not reduced to an amount which is less than the
amount of the net income of a proprietor or tenure-holder falling within a lower income group.
20.
Manner of calculation of compensation when the interest of proprietor or tenure-holder entitled to receive royalty or
directly working a mine lies within the jurisdiction of more than one Compensation Officer.
- If the interest of a proprietor or tenure-holder entitled to receive royalty or directly working a mine lies within the
jurisdiction of more than one Compensation Officer, each Compensation Officer shall fill up columns 1 to 3 (a) and
columns 5 to 6(a) of Form F and the rest of the columns shall be filled up by the Compensation Officer of the area in
which such proprietor or tenure-holder has the largest amount of income.
20A.
Page 12/79
----- PAGE 13 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
[* * * * *]
[Omitted by GSR 62, dated 19.9.1981.]
21.
[ Manner of publishing Draft Compensation Assessment Roll under Section 26(1).
[Substituted by Notification No. 1644, LR, dated 24.2.1960.]
(1)
After the draft of the Compensation Assessment Roll under Sections 19, 24-A, 25 or 30-A as the case may be, has been
prepared, the Compensation Officer, with the approval of such authority as may be notified by Government in this behalf
shall publish the same by affixing a copy thereof together with a public notice in Form P(6) to the notice board of the
office where the draft Compensation Assessment Roll has been prepared. The Compensation Assessment Roll should
be published for a period of 30 clear days. The record shall be kept in charge of Compensation Officer who shall give
every facility to all persons for inspecting the Compensation Assessment Roll. Any person interested in the
Compensation Assessment Roll may be allowed to take relevant extracts thereof. But if any person asks for a copy of
the roll, it shall be issued on payment of the charges laid down in the Bihar Records Manual, 1951. The Compensation
Officer shall also invite objections within 60 days after the expiry of the period of publication.
(2)
On the expiry of [the period fixed for entertaining objections], the Compensation Officer, after giving reasonable notice to
the person interested in the objection, shall hear the parties on the objection and shall receive such evidence as he may
consider necessary. The Compensation Officer, after hearing the parties, may either reject the objection, modify any
entry or entries made in the draft Compensation Assessment Roll or uphold the entries made therein.]
22.
Manner of disposal of appeals under Section 27.
- In hearing and disposing of appeals filed under Section 27, the procedure laid down in Order XLI of the Code of Civil
Procedure for the disposal of Civil appeals shall be followed so far as may be.
23.
Manner of final publication of Compensation Assessment Roll under Section 28.
- After all objections and appeals have been disposed of in respect of any Compensation Assessment Roll or after the
period for filing an appeal has expired, the Compensation Officer shall publish the Compensation Assessment Roll by
affixing it to the notice board of the office of the Sub-divisional Officer or Collector of the Sub-division or district in which
the Compensation Assessment Roll has been prepared.
24.
Period within which the certificate is to be made under Section 29.
- The period within which the certificate is to be made under Section 29 shall be 30 days from the date of final
publication of the Compensation Assessment Roll.
25.
Rules under Section 32 (4).
- All suits, appeals or proceedings relating to a dispute about the interest of a proprietor or tenure-holder in an estate or
tenure, or part of an estate or tenure or about the partition of an estate or tenure by metes and bounds, in respect of
which compensation is payable pending on the 31st March, 1948, in any Court other than the Supreme Court and
remaining undisposed of at the date of vesting shall, on the application of any party to such suit, appeal or other
proceeding, if filed within 60 days of the date of vesting, be stayed and all matters in dispute shall be referred to a
Tribunal to be appointed by the State Government in this behalf.
(2)
As soon as the Court decides to refer a dispute to a Tribunal under subsection (4) of Section 32, it shall give a notice of
its decision to the State Government in the Revenue Department and to the parties; whereupon each party shall within a
period of 30 days of the service of such notice send its recommendation to the State Government in the Revenue
Department for the appointment of the member to represent it on the Tribunal.
(3)
After the Tribunal has been constituted, the fact shall be communicated to the Court concerned, whereupon the Court
shall refer the dispute to the Tribunal and shall at the same time transmit the record of the case to the Chairman of the
Tribunal.
Page 13/79
----- PAGE 14 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
25A.
[ Manner of calculating ad-interim payment in advance under the first proviso to section 33.
[Substituted by GSR 62 dated 19.9.1981.]
- For the purpose of making ad interim payment in advance to trusts under the first proviso to Section 33, the
approximate amount of such trust shall be computed on the basis of the net income calculated in accordance with Rules
25B to 25D.]
25B.
[ Procedure for ascertaining gross assets.
[Substituted by GSR 62 dated 19.9.1981.]
- The gross assets (other than mines and minerals comprised therein) of a trust shall be calculated in the following
manner namely :-
(1)
Where the trust supplied all the particulars relating to their intermediary interests, and the Jamabandi (that is collectable
Jama for rent and cess including income from sairats) filed by them has been found to be substantially correct after field
check, the approximate gross assets shall be calculated on 100 per cent of such Jama.
(2)
Where the trust has not furnished plot numbers and their areas, but has supplied the other particulars mentioned in
sub-rule (1) and the Jamabandi filed by them is found to be substantially correct after check, the approximate gross
assets shall be calculated on 100 per cent of such jama.
(3)
Where it is not possible to verify expeditiously the jamabandi filed by a trust but on a preliminary scrutiny it is prima facie
acceptable the approximate gross assets shall be calculated on 10 percent of such jama:
Provided that the details of the jambandi shall be verified as soon thereafter as possible.
(4)
Where the Jamabandi filed by the trust has not been verified in all or where no Jamabandi has been filed at all, but it has
been possible to make collections for one full year in respect of the interests of the trust, the approximate gross assets
shall be calculated on 100 percent of the actual collection for that year.
(5)
Where it has not been possible for the Collector to determine the annual rents for Gairmazarua Khas, Gairmazarua
Malik or Parti lands or for building used primarily as cutcheries or the fair and equitable rents for the lands saved to them
under Sections 5, 6, or 7 the Collector may calculate the approximate gross assets without taking these items into
account for the time being subject to adjustment being made later on.
(6)
The income of the trust from forests may for the purpose of calculating the gross assets, be calculated at the flat rate of
20 paise per acre of the area under forests:
Provided that if the area under forests is not readily available from the Chief Conservator of Forests, the approximate
gross assets may be calculated without taking into the account for the time being the said income, subject to adjustment
being made later on.]
25C.
[ Procedure for ascertaining approximate net income.
[Substituted by G.S.R. 62 dated 19.9.1981.]
- The Collector shall prepare the approximate net income of a trust from its estates and tenures (other than mines and
minerals comprised therein) after making deduction on account of the items mentioned in Section 23(1) from the
approximate gross assets calculated in accordance with Rule 25B.]
25D.
[
[Substituted by G.S.R. 62 dated 19.9.1981.]
The Collector shall prepare an estimate of the net income of a trust from mines and minerals comprised in its estate or
tenures mutatis mutandis, in the manner specified in Rules 18, 19, and 20.]
25E.
[ Procedure of determining the approximate amount of annuity.
Page 14/79
----- PAGE 15 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
[Substituted by G.S.R. 62 dated 19.9.1981.]
(1)
The approximate amount of annuity in respect of trust for intermediary interests other than in mines and minerals shall
be equal to the approximate net income arrived at in the manner laid down in Rule 25C.
(2)
The approximate amount of annuity payable for mines and minerals comprised in the intermediary interests of a trust
shall be equal to the estimate of the net income arrived at in the manner laid down in Rule 25D.
(3)
The approximate amount of annuity payable to the trust shall be arrived at by adding the approximate amount of annuity
payable for mines and minerals to the approximate amount of annuity in respect of his other interests.]
25F.
[ Procedure for sanctioning ad-interim payment when reports from all districts not available.
[Substituted by G.S.R. 36 dated 16.3.1972.]
- Where delay occurs in the receipt of reports from other districts in respect of the intermediary interest of a trust lying in
those districts the Collector of the district in which the major portion of its interest lies shall take action to sanction the
ad-interim payment to it on the basis of the materials available in respect of the interest lying in the district, subject to
adjustment being made later on.]
25G.
Special procedure for making ad interim payments in certain cases.
(1)
(a)
Where ad interim payment is to be made to the members of an undivided Hindu family who, under Section 20 are
entitled to be treated separately for the purpose of assessment but the full details of such members are not available or
have not been furnished and verified the ad interim payment may be calculated treating the family as one unit and not
assessing the ad interim payment separately in respect of each co-sharers, & ad interim payment may, subject to future
adjustments, be sanctioned and paid to the Karta or any adult member of the family on behalf of all the co-sharers
including minors on his producing letters of authority from them empowering the Karta or the adult member to receive
payment on their behalf and after obtaining from such Karta or adult member an indemnity bond in Form O(2).
(b)
Where ad interim payment is to be made to a minor, who is the solitary claimant to such payment the payment shall be
made to the minor's guardian after obtaining from him an indemnity bond in Form O(2).
(2)
Where there is a genuine dispute about the interests of an intermediary in an estate or tenure or part of an estate or
tenure or in respect of his right to receive compensation or annuity, the Collector shall withhold such ad interim payment
to the extent disputed until such time as the dispute is decided by a competent court.
(3)
Before making ad interim payment in respect of a trust, the Collector shall obtain from the payee concerned a security
bond in Form O.
25H.
Procedure for making ad interim payments.
(1)
No ad interim payment shall be calculated in any unit less than a naya paise, and any fraction thereof shall be rounded
off to the nearest naya paisa.
(2)
The Collector shall prepare in Form I, for the half-year ending the 30th September or the 31st March each year, a list of
persons to whom ad interim payments have been sanctioned or paid by him from time to time and forward a copy of it to
the State Government in the Revenue Department through the Collector of the district and the Commissioner of the
Division. The authority sanctioning the ad interim payments should be clearly indicated in column 12 of the Form. At the
same time the Collector of the district shall publish a copy of the list in his office as soon as possible, and also send
another copy of it to the Accountant General Bihar, for the purposes of audit.
(3)
Page 15/79
----- PAGE 16 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
The amount sanctioned as ad interim payment will be drawn from the treasury by the outgoing intermediary by a bill in
T.C. Form No. 96. The bill will be drawn up in the office of, and countersigned by the Collector sanctioning the ad interim
payment. Where, however, the ad interim payment is sanctioned by the Divisional Commissioner, under delegated
powers or by the State Government, the bill in T.C. Form No. 96 shall be drawn up in the office of and countersigned by
the Collector or Additional Collector of the district. One bill form may be used for each outgoing intermediary, but it may
comprise payments relating to a number of estates and tenures belonging to him. After countersignature, the bill will be
entered in the register of ad interim payments in Form J(1) and an Advice List will be sent by the Countersigning Officer
to the Treasury Officer in From J(2) sufficiently in advance of the bill. The Advice List will bear continuous serial number
for each financial year. The bill will be handed over to the payee after obtaining his receipt on the register in Form J(1)
as well as on the order-sheet of the case record. The officer concerned will make a note of the payments in column 9 of
Form J(1) on receipt of the lower portion of the Advice List from the Treasury Office.
(4)
[(a) If the person receiving ad interim payment dies, the Collector shall hold enquiry as to the person entitled to receive
the ad interim payment and the payment shall be made to the person held entitled thereto.
(b)
In case the probable amount of compensation exceeds five thousand rupees and if, on enquiry, the claim of the person
held entitled thereto is not disputed, the payment shall be made to him on furnishing an indemnity bond.
(c)
In case the succession is disputed the person claiming to be a successor-in-interest shall be asked to file a certificate of
succession under the Indian Succession Act, 1925 (Act XXXIX of 1925), and the payment shall be made in accordance
with such certificate.]
(5)
The payee may personally present the bill at the Treasury or endorse it in favour of any other person for collection as
provided in Rule 177 of the Bihar Treasury Code.
(6)
Where an intermediary does not attend either in person or through a duly authorised agent to receive the ad interim
payment the Collector may draw the amount from the Treasury, "by transfer credit to postal head". But before the bill is
presented to the Treasury, the Collector shall, under his dated signature, record an endorsement thereon to the effect -
"Received payment by transfer credit to postal head" and a money order form for the amount, less the money order
commission, shall also be drawn up in the name of the payee and attached to the bill.
On receipt of the bill with the money order form, the Treasury shall issue a postal transfer order Form, and after
attaching the same to the Money Order form, forward it to the Postmaster for remittance of the amount to the payee
concerned for payment. The Treasury shall send to the Collector the Money Order receipt granted by the Postmaster
together with the lower portion of the Advice List. The money order receipt shall be attached to the case record
concerned and an endorsement on the order sheet of the case record shall be made to the effect - "The amount has
been sent by Money Order vide Postal Receipt no.... dated ....
On receipt of the Money Order acknowledgement from the payee it shall be pasted in the register of ad interim payment
in Form J(1).
25I.
Adjustments.
(1)
Where ad interim payment is made under Section 33(1) (c) to an intermediary towards annuity payable under Section
24(3), such ad interim payment shall be regarded as advance towards, and adjusted against, the perpetual annuity
payable from the date of vesting of the interest of the intermediary when it is finally determined under Section 24(3).
(2)
Where ad interim payment has been made to an intermediary and such payment is subsequently found to be in excess
of 2 ½ per cent per annum of the amount of compensation payable under Section 32, the excess payment so made shall
be deducted from the amount of compensation payable to him in the manner indicated below:
(i)
before making the preliminary publication of the Compensation Assessment Roll under Section 26, the Compensation
Officer shall ascertain from the Collector of the district the total amount of ad interim payment made under Section 33
Page 16/79
----- PAGE 17 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
and deduct, from the amount of compensation, any ad interim payment made in excess of 2 ½ per cent per annum of
such compensation, and the draft publication of the said roil shall then be made in respect of the net amount of
compensation after such deduction;
(ii)
similarly, before making the final publication of the Compensation Assessment Roll under Section 28, the Compensation
Officer shall proceed in the same manner and deduct from the amount of compensation any ad interim payment made in
excess of 2 ½ per cent per annum of such compensation, and the final publication of the said roll shall then be made in
respect of the net amount of compensation after such deduction;
(iii)
any further ad interim payment due from the date of the final publication of the Compensation Assessment Roll up to the
date of payment of compensation under Section 32 (2) shall be made subject only to necessary deductions to be made
from the amount of compensation paid under Section 33(2);
(iv)
the Collector shall maintain in Form J a register of all ad interim payments made to outgoing intermediaries. This register
will contain personal accounts of each outgoing intermediary with an alphabetical index of such intermediaries for
purposes of reference. In order to watch the progress of the payments made, this register should be closed every
half-year ending the 30th September and the 31st March with a memo in the following form :-
Memo
(i)
(a)
total number (name or register, page, reference may be given) of ad interim payment due during the half year ending
30th September/31st March, 200...............
(b)
total number of payments already advised to Treasury for payment;
(c)
total number of payments actually made by Treasury:
(d)
items due for payment but not authorised or paid during the half year with details, viz, (a) - (b) and (b) - (c);
(e)
Collector's order on (d).
(ii)
A separate register containing particulars of ad interim payments to every intermediary shall be maintained by the
Collector of every district in Form J(1) and verified once a week with the Register of ad interim payment Orders on
....treasury which shall be maintained in the Treasury in T.C. Form No. 97.
25J.
[x x x x x]
[Omitted by GSR. 62, dated 19.9.1981.]
26.
Constitution and function of the Bihar Land Commission under Section 34.
(1)
The members of the Bihar Land Commission shall hold office for a period of five years from the date on which their
election or appointment is notified in the Official Gazette:
Provided that a member elected as a representative of the Bihar Legislative Assembly or the Bihar Legislative Council
shall be deemed to vacate office with effect from the date on which he ceases to be a member of the Assembly or the
Council which elected him.
(2)
If any member is, by reason of his death, resignation or otherwise, unable to complete his full term of office, the vacancy
so caused shall be filled by the election or appointment, as the case may be, of another person, and the person so
elected or appointed shall fill such vacancy for the unexpired remainder of the term for which such member would
otherwise have continued in office.
(3)
Page 17/79
----- PAGE 18 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
There shall be at least one meeting of the Commission during each quarter of the year.
(4)
The Commission may advise the State Government on such matters as may be brought up in a meeting of the
Commission with the approval of the Chairman.
(5)
The election of members by the Bihar Legislative Assembly and by the Bihar Legislative Council shall be held in
accordance with the system of proportional representation by means of a single transferable vote.
27.
[ Bihar Zamindar/Abolition Compensation Bonds.
[Inserted by Notification No. 7534 L.R., dated 29.10.1959.]
- Subject to Rules 28 and 29, the amount of compensation under sub-section (2) of Section 32 in terms of a
Compensation Assessment Roll as finally published shall be paid in cash and/or negotiable and transferable bond which
shall be described as Bihar Zamindari Abolition Compensation Bonds, (hereinafter referred to as "Bonds")
[Provided that where it is intended to pay an amount not exceeding fifty per centum of the approximate amount of
compensation to an outgoing intermediary under Section 32-A, the amount payable under Rule 39 shall be paid in cash
and/or bonds according to the procedure, so far as may be, laid down in Rules 27 to 38.]
[Substituted by GSR 36, dated 16.3.1973.]
28.
Denomination of Bonds.
- The Bonds shall be issued in denomination of Rs. 50, Rs. 100, Rs. 200, Rs. 500, Rs. 1,000, Rs. 5,000 and Rs. 10,000.
29.
Cash payments in case of - (a) amount not covered by Bonds; (b) amount of compensation not exceeding Rs. 50.
(1)
Subject to sub-rule (2) all such amount as cannot be covered by Bonds shall be paid in cash.
(2)
Where the total amount of compensation payable to an intermediary does not exceed Rs. 50 it shall be paid in cash.
(3)
No interest is payable on cash payments under sub-rules (1) and (2).
(4)
The amount of compensation payable in cash under this Rule shall be rounded off to the nearest Naya Paisa.
30.
[ Indent for Bond - Form N.
[Substituted by Notification No. 339 LR, dated 14.1.1960.]
(1)
The Bonds shall be issued by the Public Debt Office, Patna, on a requisition by the Collector of the district who shall,
subject to Rule 34, prepare an indent in Form 'N' in consultation with the Compensation Officer, and submit it in triplicate
to the Public Debt Office, Patna for compliance. At the same time the Collector of the district shall submit, in duplicate, to
Government in the Revenue Department (Land Reforms Section) an advice of such indent intimating (a) the Indent
number, (b) Anchal/Sub-Division/District to which the Indent relates, (c) the total number of Bonds and (d) the value of
Bonds indented for. The Revenue Department will in due course forward one copy of advice to the Finance
Department:]
[Provided that where the compensation or part thereof is payable to a temporary lessee under Section 24(2) or to a
creditor under Section 24(5) the Bonds in respect to such payment shall be prepared in the name of the temporary
lessee or the creditor, as the case may be, and the indent for such Bonds shall also be prepared accordingly.]
[Substituted by Notification No. 4017-LR dated 31.5.1962.]
(2)
The Bonds shall be enfaced for payment of instalments and interest at such Treasury and shall be transmitted by the
Public Debt Office to such Treasury Officer as may be indicated in the Indent for the purpose:
Provided that instalments and interest on a Bond may be made payable at any Treasury or Sub-Treasury in the State of
Bihar. [4]
[Repealed by Notification No. 339-LR, dated 14.1.1960.]
Page 18/79
----- PAGE 19 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
(3)
Before submission of an Indent, the Collector shall fill up [columns 1 to 8]
[Substituted by Notification No. 339-LR, dated 14.1.1960.]
of Form 'N' and sign and seal each copy after satisfying himself that the entries have been correctly made therein, and
shall also enter in words in his own handwriting, the total value of the Bonds indented for both in the original and the
copies thereof. The original shall be retained in his office and pasted in a Guard-file in order of issue, each page whereof
shall be numbered. Each copy of the Indent shall also bear the page numbers of the original.
(4)
While preparing an Indent for Bonds in Form N, the Compensation Officer, shall exercise due care and caution to verify
all the details, particularly, those given in column 3 (name of estate with Tauzi number) and column 4 (Khewat number in
case of tenure), and satisfy himself that an intermediary, who has once received a compensation, does not get it again
and that a Tauzi or a tenure, for which compensation has once been assessed, does not by mistake or otherwise find
place in another compensation assessment case.
(5)
Register of Indents for Bond. - Form N. - The Collector as well as the Compensation Officer shall maintain a Register of
indents for Bonds in Form N(1) in which all such indents shall be entered.
[Explanation - In this Rule the expression "the Collector of the District" or "the Collector" includes an officer appointed as
Additional Collector of Indents upto the value of Rs. 1,000 an officer not below the rank of Deputy Collector placed in
charge of Land Reforms work.]
[Substituted by G.S.R. 122, dated 26.11.1970.]
31.
Covering Schedule Form N (2).
(1)
The Public Debt Officer, [Patna]
[Substituted by Notification No. 339-LR, dated 14.1.1960.]
shall on receipt of the Indent [in triplicate]4 supply the Bonds indented for the Treasury Officer concerned, together with
a covering Schedule in duplicate, in From N(2). The Public Debt officer shall, at the same time, send an intimation of
despatch of the Consignment to the Treasury Officer separately. On receipt of the consignment, the Treasury Officer
shall after proper verification of its contents, retain one copy of the covering Schedule in a Guard file in order of receipt
and return the other copy immediately to the Public Debt Office [Patna]
[Substituted by Notification No. 339-LR, dated 14.1.1960.]
, with an acknowledgement which shall be duly signed and sealed by him.
(2)
[ The Public Debt Office, Patna shall also forward two copies of the said covering Schedule to the Government of Bihar
in the Finance Department who will send one copy to the Revenue Department (Land Reforms Section) for information
and record. At the same time the Public Debt. Office, Patna shall forward two copies of the indent to the Indenting
Collector and the Compensation Officer concerned after entering in columns 9 and 10 the particulars of the Bonds
issued. The Collector as well as the Compensation Officer will, on receipt of the copies of indent each enter the
particulars thereof in columns 7 to 10 and put his signature in column 11 of the Register of indents for Bonds, [Form
N(1)] maintained by him.]
[Substituted by Notification No. 339-LR, dated 14.1.1960.]
32.
Deposit of Bonds In Treasury.
(1)
The Treasury Officer shall deposit the Bonds, when received, in the Treasury double lock and send an intimation to the
Collector of the receipt of the particular Indent, who will immediately inform the Compensation Officer about such
receipt. In case of non-compliance of an Indent in full, the Collector will correspond in the matter with Public Debt Office,
[Patna]
[Substituted by Notification No. 339-LR, dated 14.1.1960.]
.
(2)
Page 19/79
----- PAGE 20 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
There should be an independent half-yearly physical verification of Bonds stocked in the Treasury either by the
Additional Collector himself or by an officer unconnected with the Treasury to be nominated by the Collector for the
purpose. The date and result of verification indicating therein the number of Bonds received and issued to the
Compensation Officers and the Treasury, should be recorded under the signature of the verifying Officer in the Stock
and issue Register prescribed under sub-rule (3) and reported to [x x x]
[Repealed by Notification No. 339 LR, dated 14.1.1960.]
the Government in the Finance Department.
(3)
The Treasury Officer will maintain a Stock and Issue Register of Bihar Zamindari Abolition Compensation Bonds in Form
N(16) containing an account of receipts, issues and balances. The closing balance should be struck on each day on
which there is a receipt or issue, and should be signed by the Treasury Officer. This register should be kept along with
the Bonds in the double lock.
33.
Tendering payment of compensation in Bonds and/or in cash.
(1)
On receipt of an intimation from the Collector about the receipt of the Bonds under Rule 32, the Compensation Officer
shall tender payment of the amount of compensation to the Compensation-holder in Bonds and/or in cash as prescribed
in Rules 28 and 29 except in the cases referred to in Rule 38.
(2)
[ Notice to Compensation-holder, Form N(3) - Register of payment of compensation in Bonds/Cash - Form N(5). - The
Compensation Officer shall issue a notice in Form N(3) to the Compensation-holder directing him to take delivery of the
Bonds and/or to receive payment of the amount payable in cash on a specified date and at a specified place either in
person or through his duly authorised agent and shall, on the specified date and place deliver the Bonds and/or make
payment in cash to the compensation-holder or his duly authorised agent.
The amount of Compensation payable in cash under Rule 29 shall be drawn by the Compensation Officer under head
"563 Payment of Compensation............. payment in Cash" from the Treasury/Sub-Treasury in T.C. Form No. 76. Before
making such delivery of the Bonds and/or making such payment in cash, the Compensation Officer shall enter the
particulars in Columns I to II of the Register of payment of Compensation in Bonds/Cash in Form N(5). the
Compensation holder or his agent, who shall be duly identified before the Compensation Officer, shall acknowledge
receipt of the Bonds and/or Cash and shall also put his signature or left thumb impression (in case of illiterate persons)
in column 12 of the said Register. The Compensation Officer shall then attest the entries by putting his dated signature
in column 13 of the said Register:
Provided that in the case of payment under Section 32-A of fifty percent of the approximate amount of compensation,
the Compensation Officer shall issue a notice in Form N(3A) and not in Form N(3), to the Compensation holder for the
purposes specified in the forgoing paragraph. The notice in Form N(3A) shall invariably be given in all cases of payment
of Compensation in accordance with the provisions of Section 32-A including those in which the amount of deductions to
be made exceeds the amount of such fifty percent of compensation and in which no indent for Bends is required to be
submitted for the purpose of payment under the said Section.]
[Substituted by G.S.R. 44 dated 1.4.1974.]
(3)
Requisition for Bonds, Form N(8) Register in Form N(16). - The Compensation Officer shall personally draw from the
Treasury the Bonds for issue on a Requisition for Bonds in Form N(8) and shall put his signature in column 10 of the
Treasury Stock and Issue Register in Form N(16) in token of acknowledgement of receipt. Each such requisition shall
relate only to the Bonds to be issued on a specified date according to the notice under sub-rule (2). The Compensation
Officer will be personally responsible for safe custody of bonds while in his possession.
(4)
[ If the notice under sub-rule (2) has been duly served in accordance with the provisions of Rule 3 and the
Compensation-holder in spite of service does not appear in person or through his duly authorised agent to take delivery
of the Bonds and/or the Cash on the specified date and specified place, the Compensation Officer shall deposit with the
Collector of the district the, Bonds and the receipt of "Revenue Deposit" in respect of the Cash deposited in the Treasury
through Challan (T.C. From No. 8).
Page 20/79
----- PAGE 21 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
The Collector shall give an acknowledgement to the Compensation Officer for the aforesaid Bonds and the receipts
deposited with him and keep the Bonds and receipts in a sealed receptacle in his name in the strong room of the
Treasury:
Provided that subject to sub-rules (7) and (10) the Collector of the district may on an application, deliver the Bonds
and/or the Cash kept under "Revenue Deposit" to the Compensation-holder or his duly authorised agent within a period
of three complete years from the date fixed for delivery.]
[Substituted by G.S.R. 44, dated 1.4.1974.]
(4A)
[ If at the time of delivery of the Bonds to the compensation-holder, the Compensation Officer finds that the Bond
supplied by the Public Debt Office against the indent does not bear correct name of the compensation holder, he shall
withheld delivery of the Bond and shall return the Bond to the Collector with a covering letter in duplicate in Form N(22)
after making an entry in column 14 of this register of payment of compensation in Bonds/cash Form N(5). When a copy
of the covering letter in Form N(22) bearing the acknowledgement of the Collector is received from him, the
Compensation Officer shall fill up column 15 and put his own dated signature in column 16 of the Register in Form N(5).
He shall then retain the covering letter containing the Collector's acknowledgement in a guard file. The Collector, on
receipt of the Bonds from the Compensation Officer shall ascertain the correct name in which the compensation
documents are to be prepared and return the Bond to the Public Debt Office, Patna with a covering letter in Form N(23)
in duplicate advising the Public Debt Office to correct the name of the compensation-holder in the Bond and also in their
records. At the same time, the Collector shall correct the entries in the relative records retained by him under advise to
the Government in Revenue and Land Reforms Department and also in the Finance Department. The correction in the
name of the compensation-holder in the Bond shall also be intimated to the Treasury Officer concerned.]
[Substituted by G.S.R 44, dated 1.4.1974.]
(5)
[ Covering Schedule, Form N(9) - Guardfile of covering Schedules, Form N (9) - The Compensation Officer shall forward
the undelivered Bonds and for the receipts for disbursed cash kept in Revenue Deposit soon after the specified date to
the Collector, for deposit with a covering Schedule in Form N (9) after making an entry in column 14 of his Register, of
payment of compensation in Bonds/cash in Form N(15), When an acknowledgement in the duplicate of the covering
schedule is received from the Collector, the Compensation Officer shall fill up column 15 and put his own dated
signature in column 16 of the said Register. He will then retain the covering schedule containing the Collector's
acknowledgement in a Guard File.]
[Substituted by G.S.R. 44 dated 1.4.1974.]
(6)
[ Register of undelivered Bonds and undisbursed amount of the Cash compensation N(10). - The Collector shall
maintain a Register of undelivered Bonds and undisbursed amounts of the Cash Compensation in Form N(10) showing
the particulars relating to the undelivered Bonds/Receipt of undisbursed amounts cash of Compensation kept in
"Revenue Deposit" received by him from the Compensation Officer for deposit.
There shall be annual verification of such undelivered Bonds and undisbursed cash by a Gazetted Officer to be
nominated by the Collector for the purpose.]
[Substituted by G.S.R. 44 dated 1.4.1974.]
(7)
Covering Schedule, Form N (11) - Guard File of covering Schedule, Form N (11). - If any Bonds are not delivered within
a period of three years under the proviso to sub-rule (4) the Collector shall return them to the Public Debt Office. [Patna]
[Substituted by Notification No. 339 LR dated 14.1.1960.]
for deposit together with a covering Schedule in duplicate in Form N(P). The Collector shall, at the same time make an
entry in column 16 of his Register in Form N (10). One copy of the covering Schedule will be retained by the Public Debt
Office, [Patna]
[Substituted by Notification No. 339 LR dated 14.1.1960.]
and the other copy returned immediately to the Collector with an acknowledgement of receipt. On receipt of such
acknowledgement the Collector shall make an entry to this effect in column 17 of the said Register, and shall retain the
covering Schedule containing such acknowledgement in a Guard File.
(8)
Page 21/79
----- PAGE 22 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
Till the undelivered Bonds are returned to the Public Debt Office, [Patna]
[Substituted by Notification No. 339 LR dated 14.1.1960.]
, they shall be kept in the double lock of the District Treasury.
(9)
[ Monthly Statement of Payment of Compensation in Cash. - Form N (12). - The Compensation Officer shall prepare a
monthly Statement of Compensation in Cash in Form N(12) on the basis of the disbursements made day to day to the
Collector not later than the 7th day of the following month. The Collector shall prepare a consolidated statement in
duplicate in the same form for the district. The Collector shall then transmit one copy of the same to the Government in
the Revenue and Land Reforms Department latest by the 20th day of the month following the month to which the
Statement relates.]
[Substituted by G.S.R. 44 dated 1.4.1974.]
(10)
Revalidation of Cash Compensation kept in "Revenue Deposit". - Cash Compensation not claimed for more than three
months from the date of notice to the Compensation-holder shall cease to be payable unless an application is filed
before the Compensation Officer who will pass necessary orders for payment of the same by the Collector.
(11)
[x x x x]
[Omitted by G.S.R. 44, dated 1.4.1974.]
(12)
[x x x x]
[Omitted by G.S.R. 44, dated 1.4.1974.]
(13)
[ Date of issue of Bonds. - The date of issue of Bond by the Public Debt Office, Patna, as mentioned in the Bonds shall
be taken as the date of issue for payment of annual instalments and for crediting the value of the Bonds in Form N -
Public Debt, etc., by contra-debit to 65 Payment of compensation, etc; on the basis of the monthly return showing the
date-wise issue of Bonds received by the Accountant-General, Bihar from the Public Debt office, Patna. In order to
ensure correct adjustment of the value of the Bonds in Government accounts the Public debt Office, Patna will at the
same time send a copy of the monthly return to the Revenue Department (Land Reforms Section and another copy to
the Finance Department by the 10th day of the month following the month to which the return relates.]
[Substituted by G.S.R. 44, dated 1.4.1974.]
(14)
Actual delivery of Bonds. - The Collector shall furnish in Form N (21) to Government in the Revenue Department (Land
Reforms Section) by the end of the following week a weekly statement showing the total value of Bonds actually
delivered during the preceding week in payment of compensation by the Compensation Officer together with the dates
of delivery of such Bonds. The Revenue Department will compile a monthly statement for the whole State in the same
form and forward the same to [x x x]
[Omitted by Notification No. 339 LR, dated 14.1.1960.]
the Finance Department and a copy thereof will be sent simultaneously to the Accountant General, Bihar.
(15)
[ (a) Where a Compensation-holder dies after the Bonds have been indented but before the Bonds have been delivered
and/or payment in cash has been made as prescribed in sub-rule (2), the Compensation Officer shall deposit the Bonds
and/or the receipt for cash deposited in "Revenue Deposit" with the Collector in the manner prescribed in sub-rules (4)
and (5). Thereafter the procedure prescribed in sub-rules (6), (7), (8), (10) and (11) shall be followed.]
[Added by Notification No. 4017 LR, dated 31.5.1962.]
(b)
[ If the quantum of compensation does not exceed five thousand rupees and no probate of Will or Letter of
Administration is filed within a period of six months from the date of the death of the Compensation-holder, the Collector
shall hold an enquiry as to the persons entitled to receive the Bond and/or cash. If, there is no dispute as to succession
and the claimants file an affidavit regarding their shares in the Form prescribed in Form U(3), the Bonds referred to in
clause (a) shall be forwarded to the Public Debt Office, Patna, for cancellation and also an indent for issue of fresh
Bonds or equivalent amount in the names of the successors-in-interest as adjudged by the Collector, in accordance with
Page 22/79
----- PAGE 23 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
the procedure prescribed in Rule 30. If any amount has to be paid in cash to the successors-in-interest or any of them
as adjudged by the Collector by the amount payable in cash shall be calculated afresh in accordance with Rule 29.]
[Substituted by G.S.R. 44, dated 1.4.1974.]
(c)
[ In case there is a dispute as to succession with respect to the interest of the deceased Compensation-holder and in
every case where the total quantum of compensation exceeds five thousand rupees, the parties claiming to be the
successors-in-interest of the deceased Compensation-holder shall be asked to produce a certificate of succession as
provided in the Indian Succession Act, 1925 (Act XXXIX of 1925). Thereafter the Bonds shall be revalidated and the
amount payable in cash shall be calculated afresh in accordance with the certificate of succession and the procedure
laid down in clauses (a) and (b) shall be followed.]
[Substituted by G.S.R. 44, dated 1.4.1974.]
(d)
[ Even if the total quantum of compensation does not exceed five thousand rupees but the parties file a certificate of
succession under the Indian Succession Act the procedure prescribed in clause (b) shall be followed.
[Inserted by Notification No. 8226-LR, dated 28.10.1967.]
(e)
If the question of succession is not decided within a period of three years from the death of the compensation-holder, the
Collector shall return the bonds to the Public Debt Office as prescribed in sub-rule (7).]
33A.
[ Procedure where claim for undelivered Bonds is made after three years from the date fixed for delivery.
[Inserted by Notification No. 8226-L.R., dated 28.10.1967.]
(1)
If after the return of the Bonds to the Public Debt Office, Patna, under sub-rule (7) or clause (e) of sub-rule (15) of Rule
33, a claim in respect of such Bonds is made by the compensation-holder or his successor-in-interest, the Collector shall
verify the claim and also satisfy himself about the identity of the claimant. In the case of a claim by the
successor-in-interest of the compensation-holder, the procedure for verifying the claim shall be the same as provided
under clauses (b) to (d) of sub-rule 15 of Rule 33.
(2)
In case the claimant is the compensation-holder in whose favour the undelivered Bonds were issued, the Collector shall
send a requisition for the Bonds to the Public Debt Office, Patna, which shall be prepared in Form "N (11 A)" in triplicate,
showing inter alia; the full particulars of the Bonds (the total amount of the Bonds in words to be stated by the Collector
in his own handwriting), the number and the date of the acknowledgement of the Bonds received from the Public Debt
Office, Patna as recorded in column No. 17 of register in Form "N(O)", and the name full address of the Treasury to
which Bonds are to be sent. The Collector shall sign and seal each copy of the requisition after satisfying himself that
the entries therein have been made correctly. Thereafter, he shall send one copy of the requisition to the Public Debt
office, Patna for compliance, one copy to the Treasury Officer (to whom the Bonds are to be sent by the Public Debt
Office) for his information and retain the third copy in his office for record. He shall also record a suitable note in the
remarks column of the register in Form "N(10)" against the relative entries.
(3)
If the claim has been lodged by the successor-in-interest of the compensation-holder and the claim has been verified in
the manner stated above, the Collector shall advise the full particulars of the undelivered Bonds to the Public Debt Office
in Form "N(11A)" and request them to cancel the Bonds from their books. The Collector shall also at the same time,
send an indent for the issue of fresh Bonds in the name of the successor-in-interest, the indent being sent as prescribed
in Rule 30.
(4)
The Public Debt Office, Patna, shall on receipt of the requisition or advice in Form "N(11 A)" return the Bonds or cancel
them, as the case may be. Further on receipt of the indent referred to sub-rule (3) the Public Debt Office shall issue
fresh Bonds. The old Bonds or the fresh Bonds, as the case may be, shall be sent to the Treasury Office in accordance
with the procedure prescribed in Rule 31.
(5)
The procedure for deposit of Bonds in the Treasury, sending intimation to the Collector, periodical verification of the
Page 23/79
----- PAGE 24 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
Bonds, maintenance of records of the Bonds received etc. shall be the same as prescribed in Rule 32.
(6)
The Collector shall, on receipt of an intimation from the Treasury Officer regarding receipt of the Bonds requisitioned or
indented by him inform the compensation-holder or his successor-in-interest as the case may be, to take delivery of the
Bonds on a specified date either in person or through his duly authorised agent and shall, on the specified date, deliver
the Bonds to the compensation-holder, his successor-in-interest or his duly authorised agent. The manner in which the
record of the Bonds is to be kept, the instructions to be observed for delivering the Bonds and the procedure for
obtaining acknowledgement for the Bonds shall be the same as stated in sub-rule (2) of Rule 33. The Collector shall
also make suitable entries regarding delivery of Bonds in the register in From N(10) referred to in Rule 33(6).]
34.
[ Deduction under Section 4(c) or Section 4(cc) or Section 30A or Section 33(2).
[Substituted by G.S.R., 44 dated 1.4.1974.]
- When any deduction from the amount of compensation is to be made on account of arrears of revenue and cesses or
any other dues when so ordered by the Collector under clause (c) of Section 4 or excess rent or cess realised by the
intermediary after the date of vesting under clause (cc) of Section 4 or ad-interim payment having been made in excess
of 2 ½ per cent under subsection (2) of Section 33 the Collector shall by an order in writing state the amount to be
deducted and direct the Compensation Officer to reduce the amount of compensation accordingly in the Compensation
Assessment Roll and to indent for Bonds and/or to make payment in cash of only the balance left out of the amount of
compensation after such deductions. Before the Bonds are indented for/or payment in cash is made the Compensation
Officer shall in each case satisfy himself that the Government dues mentioned in the above paragraph have been
adjusted against the amount of compensation and that there is no limited owner or holder of life interest, in whose favour
a deposit has to be made with the Collector of the district under sub-section 4 of Section 32 and shall record a certificate
to this effect on the Compensation Record. The Compensation Officer after making necessary enquiries, shall also
endorse on the Compensation record a certificate to the effect that there is no holder of a temporary lease to whom
compensation is payable under sub-section (2) of Section 24, that no compensation is payable to a secured creditor on
account of claim determined under Chapter IV of the Act and that no deduction is to be made under sub-section (2) of
Section 33 on account of ad interim payment.
(2)
Where on discovery of new interests under Section 30A(2) a fresh Compensation Assessment Roll is prepared, the
amount of compensation in the fresh assessment roll shall be reduced by the amount that may have been paid to the
intermediary on the basis of the previous assessment roll before the preparation of such fresh assessment roll. The
Compensation Officer shall at the same time, submit to the Collector of the district a requisition for fresh Bonds and/or
for revised amount of compensation payable in cash on the basis of the fresh assessment roll in place of the Bonds
previously issued. The Bonds previously issued shall be withdrawn from the intermediary and sent to the Public Debt
Office, Patna, through the Collector for cancellation alongwith the indent for fresh Bonds. The Compensation Officer
shall also make payment of the revised amount of Compensation in cash according to the procedure laid down in
sub-rule (2) of Rule 33. Necessary note regarding cancellation of the Bonds shall also be made in the Remarks column
of the relevant registers. At the same time an intimation regarding cancellation of the Bonds shall be sent to the
Treasury Office.
(3)
Any excess payment under the second proviso to Section 30-A shall be recoverable from the intermediary as a public
demand.]
34A.
[ Procedure for payment of compensation to the legal heirs of a deceased compensation-holder having or entitled to a
share, as if there were a partition on the date of vesting under Section 20.
[Inserted by Notification No. 4017 LR, dated 31.5.1962.]
- Where a proprietor or tenure-holder having or entitled to share as if there were partition on the date of vesting under
Section 20, dies before the payment of compensation the amount of compensation payable to him will be distributed
among his legal heirs according to their respective shares. For this purpose such legal heirs will not be treated as
separate intermediaries, but will be treated as persons succeeding to or inheriting the compensation of the deceased
compensation-holder and if they are themselves intermediaries entitled to compensation in their own rights their
Page 24/79
----- PAGE 25 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
compensation will not be re-calculated, but whatever amount they get through succession or inheritance will be treated
as an amount payable to them over and above their ordinary compensation.]
35.
Payment of annual instalments of the principal and interest on Bonds.
(1)
The Bonds shall be payable in forty equal annual instalments to the person named therein or his duly authorised agent
or transferee and shall carry interest at the rate of 2 ½ per centum per annum from the date of issue on that part of the
principal which has not become payable. No interest shall be payable on any amount of the principal beyond the date on
which its payment fell due, even though the amount is not realised by the holder of the Bonds.
(2)
[(i) Payees receipt - Form N(14) - Register of payment of annual instalments of the principal and interest on Bonds
payable at ......... Treasury, Form N(15). - The annual instalment of the principal together with the interest due under
Rule 35(1) on a bond shall be payable on presentation of the bond at Treasury/Sub-Treasury in the State of Bihar at
which the Bond is enfaced for payment of such instalment and interest. The payee concerned shall give a proper receipt
for such payment in Form N(14) and the particulars thereof shall be entered in Register of payment of annual
instalments of the principal and interest on Bonds payable at....Treasury in Form I(15)
(ii)
Register of Bihar Zamindari Abolition Compensation Bonds enfaced for payment of annual instalments of principal and
interest at the ........... Treasury .......... District Form N (15-A). For the purpose of recording enfacements, the
Treasury/Sub-Treasury Officer will also maintain a separate register, viz., Register of Bihar Zamindari Abolition
Compensation Bonds enfaced for payment of annual instalments of principal and interest at the........Treasury....District
in Form N(15-A).]
[Before making payment of any instalment and interest to a compensation bond-holder, his duly authorised agent or a
transferee, the Treasury/Sub-Treasury Officer shall satisfy himself that the requirements laid down in the Government
Securities Manual (Third Edition) as regards payment of interest have been fully complied with.
This register Form N(15-A) should have the appropriate quality of paper and cover to enable it to be preserved for forty
years and should be a well-bound register with machine numbered pages. As and when vouchers in Form N (14) are
passed by the Treasury Officer for making payment of annual instalments: Entries shall be made by him in the relative
annual instalment column under his initials which shall be dated by him.]
[Substituted by Notification No. 339 L.R. dated 14.1.1960.]
(3)
[ In order to prevent erroneous payment of instalments on principal and interest on a Bond not enfaced for payment at
the particular treasury specified in the bond, special care should be exercised in the maintenance of register Form N
(15-A). When a bound is transferred for payment to another treasury, the Treasury Officer will at once note the fact in
column 1 of register in From N(15-A) and shall not thereafter pay instalment on such bond.]
[Substituted by Notification No. 339 L.R. dated 14.1.1960.]
36.
Redemption of Bond - Notice of discharge.
(1)
Where the State Government opt to redeem any class or classes of Bonds at any time before the expiry of the period of
40 years from the date of issue of such Bonds they will inform the Public Debt Office, [Patna]
[Substituted by Notification No. 339 L.R., dated 14.1.1960.]
, of such class or classes of Bonds and the amount available for their redemption not later than six months before the
date proposed for such redemption. On receipt of such information the Public Debt Office, [Patna]
[Substituted by Notification No. 339 L.R., dated 14.1.1960.]
, will arrange for the drawing of lots and will, on the completion of the draw, send a list of the Bonds drawn and to be
redeemed to the Government in the Revenue Department (Land Reforms Section) not later than three months before
the proposed date of redemption. The list will show the names of the Treasuries at which the Bonds are enfaced. The
Revenue Department (Land Reforms Section) will cause this list to be published in the Official Gazette and will at the
same time, send a notice of discharge to the Treasury Officer concerned, the Public Debt Office, [Patna]
[Substituted by Notification No. 339 L.R., dated 14.1.1960.]
Page 25/79
----- PAGE 26 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
and the Collector of the district concerned not later than six weeks before the date of redemption.
(2)
The Collector shall, on receipt of a notice of discharge under sub-rule (1); publish a copy of it in his Notice Board, and
shall also send extracts thereof to each Sub-divisional Officer concerned for similar publication in his Notice Board.
(3)
Government Securities Manual. - List of redeemed Bonds. - The procedure laid down in Chapter VIII of the Government
Securities Manual (Third Edition) for payment of terminable loans read with Rule 15 of the Public Debt (Compensation
Bonds) Rules, 1954 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the payment of the outstanding amount of the Bonds to be
redeemed. Such Bonds shall, after redemption, be forwarded by the Treasury Officer to the Public Debt Office, [Patna]
[Substituted by Notification No. 399 L.R., dated 14.1.1960.]
together with a list of such Boards in duplicate, and a copy of such list shall also be sent by him to the Collector of the
district, the Accountant General, Bihar and the Government in the Revenue Department (Land Reforms Section) for
information.
37.
Procedure when the Bond is lost, stolen etc.
- When any Bond issued under these rules is lost, stolen, destroyed, mutilated or defaced, the procedure relating thereto
prescribed in the Public Debt (Compensation Bonds) Rules, 1954 reproduced in Appendix A shall apply. [Similarly, when
the venue of payment of a particular treasury is proposed to be changed, the general rules of the Government Securities
Manual (Third Edition) and Public Debt (Compensation Bonds) Rules, 1954 shall apply.]
[Added by Notification No. 399 L.R., dated 14.1.1960.]
38.
Amount of compensation payable to a limited owner to be deposited with the Collector.
(1)
The amount of compensation payable to a limited owner or the holder of a life-interest shall be kept in deposit with the
Collector of the district for the period prescribed in sub-section (4) of Section 32, and the interest accruing on such
amount shall be paid to the limited owner or the holder of the life-interest concerned at the direction of the Collector
during such period.
(2)
Form N (18) - Form N (19). - The Compensation Officer shall keep the amount of compensation payable to a limited
owner or the holder of a life-interest in cash and/or bonds under Rule 27 in deposit with the Collector of the district, the
amount of compensation payable in cash being kept in Revenue deposit. The Compensation Officer will forward the
Bonds, together with the copies of the challans showing such deposites, to the Collector of the district with a letter in
Form N (18). On receipt of the Bonds and challans by the Collector, they will be entered in his office in "Register of
Bonds and cash payable to limited owners or holder of life interest" in Form N (19). The Bonds and challans will then be
kept in the double lock of the Treasury, where the same Register N(19) shall also be maintained. This Register will be
kept along with the Bonds and challans in the double lock. There should be an annual verification of the Bonds and
challans by a Gazetted Officer to be nominated by the Collector for the purpose.
(3)
Form N (20). - The Collector of the district will draw from the Treasury the Bonds for payment of interest, or the Bonds
and or challans for payment of instalments, etc. when required under sub-rule (4), on a Requisition for Bonds and/or
challans in Form N (20) and shall [along with application in Form N (20-A), on which the Treasury Officer will endorse an
acknowledgement of receipt]
[Inserted by Notification No. 339 L.R., dated 14.1.1960.]
redeposit the same in the Treasury for safe custody after such payment. Payment of interest and instalments, if any, on
such Bonds will be made in the manner laid down in Rule 35.
(4)
Where an application is made by a limited owner or the holder of a life-interest for payment of a part of the amount of
compensation to defray any legal expenses under the proviso to sub-section (4) of Section 32, such payment shall not
exceed the total amount of annual instalments due on the Bonds on the date of the order together with the amount of
compensation in cash, if any, deposited with the Collector on behalf of such owner or holder.
39.
Page 26/79
----- PAGE 27 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
[ Manner of calculating approximate amount of compensation for the purpose of payment of 50 per cent of
compensation under Section 32-A.
[Inserted by Notification No. 1644 L.R., dated 24.2.1960.]
- (i) For the purpose of making payment of an amount not exceeding fifty per cent of the approximate amount of
compensation to any outgoing intermediary under Section 32-A, the approximate amount of compensation payable to
him shall, so far as maybe, be calculated in the manner provided in Rules 25B to 25-E]
[Substituted by Notification No. 339 LR, dated 14.1.1960.]
:
[Provided that where an outgoing intermediary and/or his heir (s) has/have agreed to forego compensation under Rule
7-P (1) in respect of any Hat/Bazar/Mela for which he/they is/are registered under Rule 7-0, the amount of compensation
so foregone by him/them on account of settlement of such Hat/Bazar/Mela having been made with him/them shall be
adjusted by deduction from the amount of compensation or the approximate amount of compensation before making
payment to him/them under Section 32 or Section 32-A as the case may be]
[Substituted by Notification No. 4017 L.R., dated 25.7.1962.]
:
Provided further that any ad interim payment made to the outgoing intermediary in excess of 2 ½ per centum per annum
of the approximate amount of compensation payable under Section 33(2) shall be deducted before calculating the
approximate amount.
(ii)
When delay occurs in the receipt of the reports from other districts in respect of the interests of an outgoing intermediary
lying in those districts, the Compensation Officer of the area in which such intermediary resides or, if he is a person
residing outside the State, the Compensation Officer of the area in which the major portion of his interest lies shall
calculate the approximate amount of compensation payable to such intermediary on the basis of the materials available
in respect of the interests lying in that area, subject to adjustments being made later on.
40.
[ Register of adjustments in Form R - Tauzi-wise index of application for compensation in From S.
[Inserted by Notification No. 1644 L.R., dated 24.2.1960.]
(1)
For the purpose of ensuring adjustment of dues referred to in [Section 24(2), Section 24(5)] and Rule 39, each
Compensation Officer shall prepare and maintain a register of adjustments in Form R showing, intermediary wise
particulars of the intermediary's interests as well as the various dues to be adjusted. This register should be kept up-to
date by ensuring that all dues which are to be recovered in the register.
The Compensation Officer shall make such enquires as may be necessary for ascertaining the dues to be adjusted
before payment is actually made.
(2)
The Compensation Officer incharge of the register (Form R) shall also maintain a Tauzi wise index of applications for
compensation in Form S, which shall be used by him as a cross-check against any double payment when any
Sanctioning Authority sends any record to him for report regarding any particular claim to the payment of compensation.]
41.
[ Filing and verification of affidavit before payment of compensation under Section 32 or Section 32-A.
[Substituted by Notification No. 4017-LR, dated 31.5.1962.]
- Before making payment under Section 32 or 32A. the Compensation Officer shall obtain from the compensation
holder(s) an affidavit in Form U(1)/U(2) as may be applicable, to show that he/they has/have not receive compensation
from any other Compensation Officer, as laid down in Section 32-B, and that he/they is/are the sole claimant(s) in
respect of the intermediary interest or that there are other co-sharers.]
42.
[ Manner of payment of fifty per centum of approximate amount of compensation under Section 32-A.
[Inserted by Notification No. 1644 L.R., dated 24.2.1960.]
- After the approximate amount of compensation has been calculated, adjusted and verified according to Rules 39 to 41,
fifty per centum of the verified balance shall be paid to the outgoing intermediary in the manner prescribed in the proviso
to Rule 27.]
Page 27/79
----- PAGE 28 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
43.
[ Manner of payment of perpetual annuity assessed under Section 24 (3).
[Inserted by Notification No. 11336 L.R., dated 9.11.1963.]
(1)
After the Compensation Officer has assessed the annuity he will send the record of the case to the Collector for
approval of the amount payable. The Collector will then prepare an annuity payment order (in triplicate) which will be on
similar lines to a Pension Payment Order and numbered consecutively. One copy will be sent to Treasury Officer, one to
the Accountant-General and the third copy will be made over to the Trustee/Mutawali/Shebait after obtaining a receipt
from him.
The Collector will enter particulars of the Annuity Order in a Register in Form O. The Treasury Officer will enter
particulars of the Annuity Order in Form V (1).
(2)
The payment in respect of the annuity of any particular year will fall due on the first of April of the next Financial Year
and will be paid by the Treasury Officer to the Trustee/Mutawali/Shebait or his duly authorised agent on presentation of
a bill in Form V(2). The Treasury Officer will identify the payee before payment and make the necessary entries after
payment in Form V(1), indicating in the appropriate column the voucher and the date of payment. The transactions will
be incorporated in the monthly account of the treasury in the usual manner.
(3)
As soon as information is received by the Collector of any change in the office of the Trustee/Mutawali/Shebait which
may be occasioned by the death of such Trustee/Mutawali/Shebait or otherwise he will immediately communicate to the
Treasury Officer the particulars of such Annuity Order and instruct him to stop further payment of annuity on such
Annuity Order. A copy of the Collector's order will also be sent to the Accountant. General, Bihar. Thereafter he will start
miscellaneous proceedings and in due course issue a new Annuity payment Order in triplicate as in sub-rule (1) in the
name of the new Trustee/Mutawali/Shebait indicating the period from which annuity is to be paid to the new
Trustee/Mutawali Shebait and cancelling the previous Annuity Payment Orders. Fresh entries will be made in the
register in Form V, giving cross reference to the previous entry in the register. The Treasury Officer will also enter the
Annuity Payment Order as a new item in the register in Form V (1) giving cross reference to the previous entry in the
register. The Treasury Officer will withdraw the old Annuity Payment Order at the time of making the first payment on the
new Annuity Payment Order and return the old Annuity Payment Order to the Accountant-General, Bihar.]
The Schedule
[Form A]
[Substituted by Notification No. 1644 LR, dated 24.2.1960.]
(See Rule 4)
Form of Collector's written order under Section 4(g) of the Act
To,
Shri/Shrimati
Whereas by reason of the vesting in the State of the estate/tenure bearing Tauzi/Khewat No. ............. in the district of
.......... under the provisions of the Bihar Land Reforms Act, 1950, I ............. Collector appointed by the Government of
Bihar under the said Act, am of opinion that the State is entitled to the direct possession of the property specified below.
I do hereby order you being in possession of such property to deliver possession of the said property to the undersigned
by the .............. day .............of .......... 19 .......... or show cause, if any, against this order in my court within fourteen days
of the service of this order.
Particulars of the property in respect of which the notice is given:
(1)
Estate/Tenure..........
(2)
Tauzi No./Khewat No ...........
(3)
Particulars of land and buildings in respect of which notice is given.......
Given under my hand & seal on this day ............ 19 ............
Collector.
Page 28/79
----- PAGE 29 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
[Form B]
[Substituted by Notification No. 1644 LR, dated 24.2.1960.]
(See Rule 4)
Form of Collector's general notice under Section 4(h) of the Act To Whomsoever it may Concern
Whereas it appears to me that the lands ....... (Specify particulars here) .......... situated in Tauzi No. .......... of tenure
bearing Khewat No. ................. (if any) in the district of ............. or an interest ................ (specify the kind of extent of
interest) ............. in the building ............ (specify place and location) ............ used primarily as the Office/Kutchery for
the collection of rent of the estate or tenure have been transferred by the outgoing intermediary by settlement of lease or
otherwise with/to Shri/Shrimati ............ (specify name and address) .....
Therefore, it is notified for general information that any person interested or concerned, namely, transferor, transferee or
any person in possession of the said property may, within 14 days of the service of the notice, produce documents
before the undersigned to decide (i) whether the aforesaid transfer took place before or after the 1st January, 1946; and
(ii) whether the aforesaid transfer was made with the object of defeating any provision of the Bihar Land Reforms Act,
1950 or causing loss to the State or obtaining higher compensation thereunder.
Given under my hand and the seal of the Court this ............... 19 .........
Collector
[Form B(1)]
[Substituted by Notification No. 1644 L.R., dated 24.2.1960.]
(See Rule 4)
Form of Collector's notice under Section 4(h) on Transferor, Settler and Lessor
To,
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
Whereas it appears to me that you have transferred by settlement or lease or otherwise the land (specify particulars
here) ............... situated in Tauzi No. .................. or Tenure bearing Khewat No. ............ (if any) in the district of .............
or have transferred in interest (specify the kind or extent of interest) ................. in the building (specify placed location)
............... used primarily by you as your office or Kutchery for the collection of rent of your estate or tenure with/to
Shri/Shrimati (specify name and address) ................ and I am satisfied that such transfer/settlement/lease was made
after the first day of January, 1946 with the object of defeating any provisions of the Act or causing loss to the State or
obtaining higher compensation thereunder, you along with your transferee/settlee/lessee as aforesaid are hereby
directed to appear before me personally or through an authorised agent to show cause within 14 days of the service of
the notice why the aforesaid transfer/settlement/lease should not be set aside, and why your transferee/settlee/lessee,
as aforesaid, should not be dispossessed and why the property, as aforesaid, should not be taken possession of under
Section 4 (h) of the Act.
Given under my hand and seal on this day .............. 19 .........
Collector
[Form B(2)]
[Substituted by Notification No. 1644 L.R., dated 24.2.1960.]
(See Rule 4)
Form of Collector's notice under Section 4(h) on Transferee, Settlee and Lessee
To,
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
Whereas it appears to me that your are: (i) the transferee by settlement, lease or otherwise of the lands (specify
particulars here) ............ situated in Tauzi No. ...........or tenure bearing Khewat No. ........... (if any) in the district of
........... or (ii) the transferee of an interest (specify the kind or extent of interest) ........... in the building (specify place and
location) ............... used primarily by the landlord ............... (give name and address) as his office or Kutchery for the
Page 29/79
----- PAGE 30 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
collection of the rent of his estate or tenure ................. (give Tauzi No. or Khewat No.) ............ and I am satisfied that
such transfer/settlement/lease was made after the first day of January, 1946, with the object of defeating any provisions
of the Act or causing loss to the State or obtaining higher compensation thereunder, you are hereby directed to appear
before me personally or through an authorised agent to show cause within 14 days of the service of the notice why the
aforesaid transfer/settlement/lease should not be set aside and why the property, as aforesaid, should not be taken
possession of under Section 4(h) of the Act.
Given under my hand and seal of the Court this day ............... 19 ..........
Collector
[Form B(3)]
[Added by Notification No. 1644, L.R., dated 24.2.1960.]
(See Rule 4)
Form of Collector's general notice under Section 4(hh) of the Act To Whomsoever It May Concern
Whereas it appears to me that a reduction/remission, partial or entire of rent in respect of an agricultural
holdings/agricultural holding nos. in Village ............. Thana ........... Thana No. .......... comprised in the estate bearing
Tauzi No. ................ Tenure bearing Khewat No. .............. was made by the outgoing intermediary for a period of ..........
in perpetuity.
Therefore, it is notified for general information that any person interested or concerned may, within 14 days of the
service of the notice, produce documents before the undersigned to decide (i) whether the aforesaid reduction/remission
was made before or after the 1st January, 1946 and (ii) whether such reduction/remission was made with the object of
defeating the purpose of the Bihar Land Reforms Act, 1950 or causing loss to the State.
Given under my hand and seal of the Court this day ............... 19...........
Collector.
[Form B(4)]
[Added by Notification No. 1644, L.R., dated 24.2.1960.]
(See Rule 4)
Form of Collector's notice under Section 4(hh) of the Act
To,
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
Whereas it appears to me that a reduction/remission, partial or entire, of rent in respect of all agricultural
holdings/agricultural holding Nos. ....................... in village ............ Thana ......... Thana No. .............. comprised in the
estate bearing Tauzi No. ............. Tenure bearing Khewat No. ............ was made by the outgoing intermediary for a
period of ............. in perpetuity and that such reduction/remission was made after the 1st January, 1946 with the object
of defeating the purpose of the Bihar Land Reforms Act, 1950 or causing loss to the State, you are hereby directed to
appear before me personally or through an authorised agent to show cause within 14 day of the service of this notice
why the aforesaid reduction/ remission should not be cancelled and the rent of such holding which was payable in
respect of the said holding immediately before the 1st January, 1946 be restored under Section 4(hh) of the Act.
Given under my hand and seal of the Court this day .............. 19 .........
Collector
Form C
(See Rule 4)
Form of Collector's notice under Section 4(i)
To,
Shri/ShrimatiProprietor/Tenure-holder(Specify particulars of estate or tenure or part thereof)
Whereas your estate/tenure or your interest therein has vested in the State under this Bihar Land Reforms Act, 1950,
and whereas you have not complied with the requisition of the Collector to produce the documents, paper and registers
specified below you are hereby directed to produce within 48 hours of the service of the notice before Mr authorised by
me for the purpose, the documents specified below which are in my opinion necessary for the management of the
aforesaid estate or tenure:
Page 30/79
----- PAGE 31 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
(1)
Jamabandi of your interest in estate or tenure (of cash and produce rent).
(2)
Wasul Baki Book.
(3)
Siaha Book.
(4)
Khatian or Khewat of the estate/tenure, if any
(5)
[XX]
[Repealed by Notification No. 1644 LR, dated 24.2.1960.]
(6)
Register of Accounts of Bhawli or Batai lands.
(7)
Register of lands in your Khas possession together with the connected documents or papers in support of it.
(8)
Any other document or paper relating to the management of the estate or tenure.
Given under my hand and seal of the Court this day ........ 19 .....
Collector
Note. - Notice under Section 4(1) to be served when requisition under Section 40 has not been complied with within the
time fixed in the said requisition.
Any of the items (1) to (8) not required should be cancelled.
Form D
Notice Under Rule 15
To,
Name of Proprietor/Tenure holder with father's name and residence.
Take notice that I .................. appointed as Compensation Officer by the State Government under Section 19 of the
Bihar Land Reforms Act, 1950, shall proceed to determine the compensation payable to proprietors and tenure-holders,
under Sections 19,20,21,22,23 and 24 of the Bihar Land Reforms Act, 1950 and you are hereby called upon to submit a
return, giving the following particulars and information within a period of 30 days from the date of service of this notice.
1. Name of village with thana number and district.
2. (a) Tauzi No./Nos. with separate account, if any.
(b)
Name of Mahal.
3. Nature and extent of interest in each Tauzi or tenure.
4. Total Land Revenue payable or total rent payable to the superior landlord with name of the superior landlord.
5. Total amount of cess payable.
6. Area under Khas cultivation, total annual income and rent if already fixed by the Collector under Section 6.
7. Area of Gairmazrua Khas or Gairmazrua Malik or Parti land in possession of the proprietor and the rent, if already,
fixed for the area by the Collector.
8. Annual rent determined for building or portion of building used permanently as office for the collection of rent.
9. Gross income of the previous agricultural year from fisheries, trees, Jalkars, Ferries, Hats, Bazars, [Melas]
[Inserted by Notification No. 1644 L.R., dated 24.2.1960.]
, [and sairati]
[Repealed by Notification No. 1644 LR, dated 24.2.1960.]
interest.
10. Total annual rents payable by immediately subordinate tenant in case such immediately subordinate tenant is a
tenure-holder of a permanent or resumable tenure and in all other cases, by the raiyats, together with the area held by
such immediately subordinate tenant or raiyat, as the case may be with survey number of plots.
11. Total cess payable by such immediately subordinate tenant or raiyat, as the case may be.
12. Arrear rent and cess legally recoverable from such immediately subordinate tenant or raiyat, as the case may be.
Page 31/79
----- PAGE 32 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
13. The amount payable as agricultural income-tax for the previous agricultural year by the proprietor or tenure-holder,
as the case may be.
14. The amount payable as income-tax in respect of any income derived from such estate or tenure for the previous
agricultural year by the proprietor or tenure-holder, as the case may be.
15. The amount paid as Choukidari-tax or Municipal tax in respect of any building used as Cutchery for the management
of the estate or tenure.
16. Any other tax or legal imposition payable in respect of the estate or tenure not expressly mentioned in clauses (a) to
(e) of Section 23 (1) or any services or obligations of any other form to be rendered or discharged as a condition
precedent to the enjoyment of such estate or tenure [Section 23(1) (f).]
Given under my hand and seal of the court this day of 19...................
Compensation Officer.
Note. - A separate return should be furnished for each village in respect of columns 1 to 12 and 15 and 16. Where the
interests of a person are in several villages or Tauzi or tenures a consolidated return for all his interests should also be
furnished in respect of the particulars required by columns 4 to 16.
Form E
[Vide Rule 15 (i)]
Form of calculation of Net Annual Income
District .........
Note. - If the interest of proprietor/Tenure-holder lies within the jurisdiction of more than one Compensation Officer, each
Compensation Officer will fill only columns 1 to 17 of this Form. The remaining columns will be filled up by the
Compensation Officer of the area in which the major portion of the interests of the proprietor/tenure-holder lies.
(To be filled up for each| ProprietorTenure-holder| separately)
(In the case of joint Hindu family one form should be used.)
(Name of| ProprietorTenure-holder| with father's name and residence.........)
Serial No.
TauziNo. andKhewatNo. and other
particulars of estate or tenure
Share of the Proprietor/ Tenure-holder in theTauzior Tenure
Amount of Proprietor's/ Tenure holder's share of
rent in eachTauzior Tenure payable by the immediately
subordinate tenants in case such immediately sub-ordinate tenant
is a tenure-holder of a permanent or resumable tenure and in all
other cases by the Raiyats. [Section 22 (2)(a) and (b)]
Amount of cess payable for the Proprietor's/
Tenure-holder's share in theTauzior Tenure
1
2
3
4
5
Amount of Proprietor's/ Tenure-holder's share in
rents fixed under section 5(1) and Section 6 and 7 in respect of
theTauzior Tenure [Section 22 (2)(b)(i)]
Rent determined in respect ofGairmazrua Khas,
Gairmazrua MalikorPartilands in theTauzior
Tenure [Section 22(2)(b)(ii)]
Amount of Proprietor's/ Tenure-holder's share of
rent of lands purchased by a proprietor or tenure-holder in
execution of decrees for arrears of rent (such lands not being inKhaspossession of proprietor or tenure holder or settled
with anyraiyat). [Section 22(2)(b)(iii)]
Amount of Proprietor's/ Tenure holder's share of
Page 32/79
----- PAGE 33 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
rent determined for buildings used as Office orCutcheryfor the Collection of rents [Section 22(2)(b)(iv)]
Amount of rent determined under section
22(9)(b)(v)
6
7
8
9
10
Amount of Proprietor's/ Tenure-holder's share of
the gross income of the previous agricultural year from fisheries
trees,Jalkars, etc. 1[X X] [Section 22(2)(b)(ii)]
Amount of Proprietor's/ Tenure holder's share of
income from forest as determined under section 22(2)(b)(vi)
Amount of Proprietor's/ Tenure-holders share of
gross annual income of previous agricultural year from any other
sources not included in columns 4 to 11 [Section 22(2)(b)(viii)].
Total gross assests of Proprietor/ Tenure-holder
for all his estates and tenures
Amount of Land Revenue or rent payable by
Proprietor/ Tenure-holder in respect of his share inTauzi/
tenure [Section 23(1)(a)]
11
12
13
14
15
Amount of cess payable by
proprietor/tenure-holder in respect of his share inTauzi/
Tenure [Section 23(1)(a)]
Amount of proprietor's/Tenure-holder' share of
Chaukidari tax or Municipal-tax payable for buildings used
primarily as office orCutchery[Section 23(2)(d)]
Amount of proprietor's/ Tenure-holder's share of
any other tax legal or imposition commuted value of any services
or obligation the rendering or discharge or which is a condition
precedent to enjoyment of the estate or tenure [Section 23(1)(g)]
Amount of Agricultural Income-tax in respect of
his total agricultural income derived by the proprietor/
tenure-holder in the previous agricultural year. [Section 23(1)]
Amount of income-tax payable by the proprietor/
tenure-holder for the previous agricultural year. (If the
proprietor/ tenure-holder for the previous agricultural year. (If
the proprietor/ tenure-holder has different sources of income
assessable to income-tax the amount of tax payable by him on the
income from the estate-tenure other than income form royalties on
mines should be determined in accordance with the rate of
assessment which would have been applicable if the proprietor/
tenure-holder had no income other than the income derived form
such estate or tenure). [Section 23(1)(c)]
16
17
Page 33/79
----- PAGE 34 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
18
19
20
Amount of cost of works management calculated on
the total gross, asset as entered in column 14. [Section
23(1)(e)]
Amount of cost of works of benefit calculated on
the total gross asset as entered in column 14 [Section 23(1)(f)]
Net income of Proprietor/ Tenure-holder
Remarks
(If the Proprietor/ Tenure-holder owns any
estate/ tenure which lines within the jurisdiction of any other
Compensation Officer, this should be noted.
21
22
23
24
25
Form F
(Vide Rule under Section 25 of the Bihar Land Reforms Act, 1950)
Compensation Assessment-roll in respect of Mines and Minerals
District...........
Name of| ProprietorTenure-holder| with father's name and residence
Note.- If the interest of the| ProprietorTenure-holder| lies within the jurisdiction of more than one Compensation Officer
each Compensation Officer will fill up columns 1 to 3(a) and column 5 to 6(a).
The remaining columns will be filled up by Compensation Officer of the area in which the major portion of such
Proprietors/Tenure-holder's interest lies :-
Serial No.
Name, description and location of the mines or
minerals
Annual gross income from royalty during the last
12 agricultural years or any shorter period [Section 24(2)]
Average amount of gross annual income from
royalty
Cost of collection calculated according to rates
prescribed in rule under Section 25(2)
Net annual average income from royalty Annual
gross income from the working of the mine worked directly by the
proprietor or tenure-holder during the previous 92 agricultural
years or/ shorter period-Section 25(2)
Year
Amount
Year
Amount
1
2
3
3a
4
5
6
Page 34/79
----- PAGE 35 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
Average annual gross income from directly worked
mines.
Net annual income from royalty on mines worked
directly. i.e., 5 per cent of the amount in column 6(e) [Section
25(3)]
Total of column 5 and 7
Average annual[income
tax and cess payable]
[Substituted by Notification No. 1644 LR, dated 24.2.1960.]
on the amount of income in column 8
{|
(If the| ProprietorTenure-holder
has different sources of income assessable to
income tax and[cess]
[Substituted by Notification No. 1644 LR, dated 24.2.1960.]
the proportionate amount payable by him on
the income from royalty on mines should be calculated and entered
in this column) [Section 25(2)]
| Net total annual income from royalty column 1
minus column 9)
| Amount of compensation payable[under Section
25.
(4)
]
[Substituted by Notification No. 1644 LR, dated 24.2.1960.]
| Remarks
|-
| [Income-tax
[Substituted by Notification No. 1644 LR, dated 24.2.1960.]
| Cess]
|-
| 6a
| 7
| 8
| 9-A
| 9-B
| 10
| 11
| 12
|}
Date
Compensation
Officer.
Form G
Form of Compensation Assessment-Roll
[This Form is to be filled up for each compensation-holder. In the case of a joint Hindu family a separate Form has to be
prepared for each member as if there were a partition at the date of vesting.) [Section 24 Rule 15(2).]
Serial No.
Name of compensation-holder with father's name
and address
Total net annual income (as entered in Form E)
Page 35/79
----- PAGE 36 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
Deduction on account of monthly allowance in lieu
of maintenance which is a charge on estate governed by law of
primogeniture [Section 24(6)]
Net annual income after deducting the amount in
column 4
1
2
3
4
5
Amount of compensation payable (calculated on
total net income in column 5) (Section 24)
[Amount deducted on account of arrears of
revenue and cesses and arrears of rent including royalties and
all cesses together with the interest due thereon and all other
amounts recoverable by the State Government from the intermediary
[Section 4(b) 4 (c)]
[Inserted by Notification No. 1644 L.R., dated 24.2.1960.]
[Amount deducted with consent of the
intermediary on account of excess collections of rent and cess by
him for any period after the date of vesting [Section 4(cc)]
[Inserted by Notification No. 1644 L.R., dated 24.2.1960.]
Compensation payable to the holder of a temporary
lease. [Section 24(2) vide Form H]
Amount payable to creditors as determined under
Chapter IV where interest of proprietor or tenure-holder is
subject to a mortgage or charge. [Section 24(5)]
6
7
8
9
10
[Deduction made on account of ad interim payment
in excess of 2 per cent. [Section 33(2)]
[Inserted by Notification No. 1644 L.R., dated 24.2.1960.]
[Amount previously paid on account, of 20 per
cent of the compensation, (Section 32)]
[Inserted by Notification No. 1644 L.R., dated 24.2.1960.]
[Amount of compensation payable. (Column 6 minus
column 7+8+9+10+11, A-B)]
[Inserted by Notification No. 1644 L.R., dated 24.2.1960.]
Compensation for mines or minerals determined
under Section 25
Total compensation payable (add figures in
columns 12 and 13)
Remarks
11-A
11-B
12
13
14
Page 36/79
----- PAGE 37 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
15
Date
Compensation
Officer.
Form H
District ................. Sub-Division ............ Form of assessment of compensation for the holder of a
temporary lease of estate or tenure under| ProprietorTenure-holder| with father's name and residence.
[Section 24(2), vide Rule 17.]
Serial No.
Name and father's name of lessee and place of
residence
Particulars of estate or tenure or share thereof
under temporary lease
Date on which the lease come into effect
Particulars of document, if any by (which lease
was granted)
The period of the lease
1
2
3
4
5
6
Amount
Advanced
Period of which the lesee has been in occupation
Amount of advance to be refunded to the lessee
Fifty per cent of the total amount of arrear rent
and cess due to the lessee
Compensation payable to lessee (Total of column
10 and 11) (Section 24)
Remarks
(a)Adjustable on the expiry of the term
(b)Refundable after the expiry of the term
Amount
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
[Form I]
[Inserted by Notification No. 5039 L.R., dated 19.11.1953.]
[See Rule 25A(g)(ii)]
District-wise list of persons entitled to receive ad interim payments under Section 33(1) of the Bihar Land Reforms Act,
1950
District........
Serial Number
Ad interim payment case number
Name of outgoing proprietor/ tenure holder
Page 37/79
----- PAGE 38 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
entitled to receive ad interim payment with father's name
Place of residence with postal address
Name of sub-division
Number and date of notification under Section
3(1) of the Land Reforms act, 1950 and date of publication in the
Bihar Gazette
Approximate amount of estimated compensation
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
Exact amount ofad interimpayment due
Remarks (e.g.,ad interimpayment refused,
suspended or stopped with date of order and initials of the
Collector
For use in Audit Office
For the first half-year ending 30th September
calculated at-
For the Second half-year ending 31st March
calculated at-
Number and date of
Initials of
2-½ per cent.
3 per cent.
2-½ per cent.
3 per cent.
Treasury voucher
Superintendent, where necessary
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
Note. - The amounts noted in columns 8, 9, 10 and 11 should be calculated on the amount specified in column 7 and
with reference to the date given in column 6 thus where the payment is for a broken period or less than 6 months only
the proportionate amount actually due for the broken period of the half-year and not the full amount for the half-year
should be entered.
Form J
[See Rule 15-A (g)(iv)]
Register for ad interim Payment under Section 33 of the Bihar Land Reforms Act, 1950.
District ........................ Name of Proprietor/Tenure-holder .......................... with father's name and residence
...........................
Serial Number
Ad interim payment case number with year
Date of vesting with number and date of
notification under Section 3(1)
Page 38/79
----- PAGE 39 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
Approximate amount of compensation estimated
Number and date of order sanctioned and interim
payment with the name of the Collector passing the order
Period for which due
Ad interim payments to be made under Section
33(1) calculated
From-
To-
22 p.c.
3 p.c.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
Amount paid
Actual date of payment
Date from whichad interimpayment ceased
Deduction to be made from final compensation
determined under Section 52 on account ofad interimpayment in excess of 2 percent per annum of such final
compensation
Reference to the Compensation Assessment Roll in
which amount shown in Column 13 recovered
Remarks (e.g. ad interim Payment refused,
suspended or stopped with date of the order giving brief
reasons). initials of the Collector or the Gazetted Officer
incharge
10
11
12
13
14
15
Form J(1)
[See Rule 25-A (g)(iv)]
Register of ad Interim Payment Orders under Section 33 of the Bihar Land Reforms Act, 1950
Note. - The Register should be verified once a week with Treasury Register of Ad-interim Payment Orders in T.C. Form
No. 97.
District...................
Serial No.
Name of proprietor or tenure-holder to whom
payments sanctioned
Amount sanctioned together with date of the
Collector's order
Number and date of the Payment order
Number and date of the bill made over to the
payee
Page 39/79
----- PAGE 40 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
Receipt of the payee
1
2
3
4
5
6
Signature of the officer in whose presence the
bill is made over to the payee
Signature of the accountant
Treasury voucher number and date of encashment of
the bill
Date of verification
Remarks (Note page number Register for ad interim
payment - Form J in this column for cross reference)
7
8
9
10
11
Form J(2)
[See Rule 25-A (ii)]
Advice List No. .......... dated ..........
(which should be continuous for each financial year)
Advice list of ad interim payment bills passed for payment
District..............
Item number
Name of the payee
Name and year of the case under Section 33 L.R.
Act
Number and date of the bill
Amount of the bill
T.V. number and date
Remarks
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
Rs.p.
No. .................. dated ............... 200-
Forwarded to the Treasury Officer ..........
Collector.
No. .................. dated ............... 200-
Returned lower portion to the Collector .................... after noting T.V. No. and date of payment.
(Office copy for the T.O.)
Dated signature of Treasury Officer.
(Foil)
(Perforation to detach lower portion)
Page 40/79
----- PAGE 41 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
Station ......................
Date .........................
To,
The Collector..........
Item number
Name of the payee
Name and year of the case under Section 33 L.R.
Act
Number and date of the bill
Amount of the bill
T.V. number and date
Remarks
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
Rs. p.
No. ............... dated ............. 200..................
The above foil of advice is returned herewith after filling column 6, See reverse for instructions)
Signature of the Treasury Officer.
Date ........................
Instruction. -
1. The Treasury Officers should not encash any bill fa ad interim payment till this advice received from the Collector and
compared by him with the bill to see that the payees and amounts mentioned in both documents agree.
2. After payment of the bill Treasury Officer should detach the lower portion of the advice list and send it to the Collector
after noting therein the T.V. No. and date in column 6 thereof.
T.C. Form No. 96
(See Rule 446-A of the Bihar Treasury Code, Volume 1)
[Bill for making ad interim payment to proprietors/tenure-holders under Section 33 of the Bihar Land Reforms Act, 1950.]
Bill no. ........... dated ................ Bill for ad interim payments for the half yearly period from (date.........) ................ 200 .....
to date) .............. 200 ........ Heads of Account -
Major head ........................... Treasury voucher ................... Minor head .......................... No. ............................... of
................... District:
Sub-head
List of payments for - 200 ..........
Item number
Date of order with the name and designation of
office passing the order
Ad interimpayment case number with year
Reference to item number in the -
Name of proprietor or tenure-holder
Amount of ad interim payment in figure (vide
details given on the reverse)
Remarks
District-wise list of the half year ending
Advice list bearing number and date
1
2
Page 41/79
----- PAGE 42 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
3
4(a)
4(b)
5
6
7
Received contents
Please pay to .............
Signature/Thumb Impression of the payee with date.
(whose specimen signature      is given below)
One anna revenue Stamp for sums exceeding Rs. 20
Countersigned for Rs. ?..............(in
words)
Signature of the payee.
Date..........
Please pay to ?............ whosesignature
or thumb impression asgiven above has been obtained inmy
presence.
(Date signature of the messenger)
Collector.
Date...................District.................
[The words in "( )" are not necessary when bill is endorsed to Bank]
Checked with advice list and noted in the T.C. Form No. 97.
Pay Rs. ............ (in figures as well as in words).
Treasury Officer.
Date
Station:
Details of amounts shown in column 9 above.
Date of vesting of Notification
Amount of approximate compensation
Rate per cent
Half year for which due (the exact period should
be stated when it is not a complete half year)
Amount
Rs. P.
Rs. P.
Note. - The Treasury Officer should check arithmetically the correctness of the amount shown in column 6 with
reference to the details given above.
Appropriation for the current year......
Rs. P.
Expenditure including this bill......
___________
Balance of appropriation available........
___________
Certificate. -
(1)
Certified that the amount claimed in the bill has been verified with the records and found correct.
(2)
Certified that the bill is made over to the actual payee whose signature or thumb impression has been obtained in my
presence and attested by me
Collector.
Page 42/79
----- PAGE 43 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
For use in Audit Office
Admitted...........
Objected...........
Auditor
Superintendent.
T.C. Form No. 97
(See Rule 446-A of the Bihar Treasury Code, Volume I)
Register of Half-Yearly Ad Interim Payment Orders on........Treasury
District.
Ad interimpayment case number with year
Name of proprietor or tenure-holder
Amount ofad interimpayment
Half yearly ending to which the payment relates
of the actual period where the claim is not for a complete
half-year
Number and date of the bill
Treasury voucher number and date of payment
Remarks
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
Rs. n. p
[Form K]
[Inserted by Notification No. 3564 L.R., dated 24.8.1953.]
Court Fee Stamp
Form of application to be made by the outgoing proprietor or tenure-holder of an estate or tenure which has vested in
the State under the Bihar Land Reforms Act, 1950, for determination of fair and equitable rent or ground rent under
Sections 5, 6, and 7 of the Act.
[See sub-rules (i) and (ii) of Rule 7-B]
To,
The Collector of District
I, ............... son/wife of .............. village ............ P.O. ............... P.S. .............. District ............ Proprietor/tenure-holder of
estates/tenures described in the Annexure A to this application, beg to apply under sub-rule (i) or (ii) of Rule 7-B of the
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951, for determination of fair and equitable rent and ground-rent under Sections 5, 6 and 7
of the Bihar Land Reforms Act, 1950, in respect of the lands/buildings or structures described in the enclosed Annexure
A.
2. All the lands described in the enclosed Annexure A were on the date of vesting of such estates/tenures in my Khas
possession or in the possession of my temporary lessee or mortgagee as stated therein, and all the buildings or
structures, together with the lands on which they stand, also described in the said Annexure A, were in my possession at
the commencement of the said Act and used for the purpose mentioned in sub-section (1) of Section 7 of the said Act
before the first day of January, 1946; and as such, the said land as well as the said buildings or structure should be
deemed to be settled by the State with me subject to the payment of such fair and equitable rent or ground-rent as may
be determined by the Collector under the provisions of the said Act and the Rules framed thereunder.
3. I, therefore, request that fair and equitable rent and ground rents for all the land/buildings or structures described in
Annexure A, may be determined according to law.
Signature of the applicant or his authorised agent.
Date............200.....
Page 43/79
----- PAGE 44 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
Verification
I, .............. declare that the facts contained in the above application including Annexure A are true to the best of my
knowledge, belief and information.
Identified by -
Signature and designation.
Date..........
Signature of the applicant or his authorised agent.
Date..................
Place.................
Annexure 'A' To Form K
List of ................. in respect of which determination of fair and equitable rent and ground-rent under Sections 5, 6 and 7
of the Bihar Land Reforms Act, 1950, is requested.
Name of outgoing| ProprietorTenure-holder| _
District............                                                                           Sub-Division..........
Serial No.
Name of village with Thana and Thana No.
Name of estate/ tenure
Tauzi/KhewatNo.
KhatianNo.
Plot No.
Class of lands/ buildings etc.
Area
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Whether, with respect to lands, in possession of
the applicant or of his temporary lessee or mortgagee on the date
of vesting
Commencement of Bihar Land Reforms Act, 1950 and
used, for purposes mentioned in Section 7(1) before 1st January,
1946
If in the possession of a temporary lessee or
mortgagee give full details of the temporary lease or mortgage
bond e.g. name of the lessee or mortgagee with address, period of
lease or mortgage covered, the lease or mortgage bond, amount
advanced etc.
Remarks
9
10
11
12
[Form L]
[Substituted by Notification No. 1644 L.R., dated 24.2.1960.]
[See sub-Rule (i) of Rule 7-D.]
For publication at village .............. P.S. ................ Thana ............. Thana number .............
To Whomsoever it May Concern
Page 44/79
----- PAGE 45 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
[Whereas an application has been made under sub-rule (1)/sub-rule (ii)]
[Retain the preamble which is relevant.]
of Rule 7-B in the Court of ............. district .............. by ............. outgoing proprietor/tenure-holder of the estates/tenures
mentioned in the annexed schedule vested in Government for determination of fair and equitable rent/ground-rent under
Sections 5, 6 and 7 of the Bihar Land Reforms Act, 1950, read with the Rules framed thereunder in respect of the lands,
buildings or structures described in the said schedule.
[Whereas as a result of suo motu action under sub-rule (iv)]
[Retain the preamble which is relevant.]
of Rule 7-B it appears to me that determination of fair and equitable rent/ground-rent has to be made under Sections 5,
6 and 7 of the Bihar Land Reforms Act, 1950, read with the Rules framed thereunder in respect of the lands, buildings or
structures vested in Government, as described in the annexed schedule.
And whereas an enquiry to the matter will be held by me/by ................ on my behalf on .......... at ............. a.m.,/p.m. in
the village .................. P.S. .................
Therefore, it is notified for general information that any person interested or concerned may attend the enquiry at the
aforesaid place on the appointed date and time with such evidence as he may like to produce in support of his claim or
objection, if any.
Given under my hand and seal of the Court this day......
Collector.
Schedule
Name of outgoing proprietor/tenure-holder
...........................................................................................................................................District ...............
Serial No.
Name of village with Thana and Thana No.
Name of estate/ tenure
Tauzi KhewatNo.
KhatianNo.
Plot No.
Class of lands/building etc.
Area
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
[Form 'M']
[Substituted by Notification No. 1644 LR, dated 24.2.1960.]
Rent-roll showing fair and equitable rent or ground-rent determined under Sections 5, 6 or 7 of the Bihar Land Reforms
Act, 1950
[See Rule 7-I]
District................
Sub-Division..................
Serial No.
Rent Assessment case no. with year.
Name of (1) outgoing proprietor/ tenure-holder
with father's name and full address
Name of village (in which land settled lie) with
thana and thana number
Name of estate withTauziNo.
Page 45/79
----- PAGE 46 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
KhewatNo.
Halka
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
Circle
Class
KhatianNo.
Plot No.
Area
Average rate of rent or ground rent fixed
Fair rent of ground rent fixed
Remarks (Signature of the Collector with date)
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
[Form 'N']
[Substituted by Notification No. 339 LR, dated 14.1.1960.]
(Indent for Bihar Zamindari Abolition Compensation Bonds)
[See Rule 30(1)]
District.................
Sub-Division ..........
Indent number ................................. of ......................................
Memo No. ...................
Dated,
Forwarded, in triplicate, to the Manager, Reserve Bank of India, Public Debt Office, Patna for compliance.
Compensation Officer.
Collector.
Station...........
District.........
Part I ? To be filled up by the Collector
Serial No.
Name of[payee (Compensation holder) with
parentage and residence]
[Substituted by Notification No. 4017 LR, dated 31.5.1962.]
Name of estate with Tauzi No.[(State whether he
is proprietor/ or /tenure holder/ or creditor/ or maintenance
holder etc.)]
[Inserted by Notification No. 4017 LR, dated 31.5.1962.]
Khewat No. in case of tenure
Net amount of compensation payable in Bonds
Number of Bonds of each denomination intended for
Page 46/79
----- PAGE 47 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
Total value of Bonds intended for
Treasury where to be enfaced for payment of
instalment and interest.
50, 100, 200, 500, 1,000, 5,000, 10,000
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Part II ? To be filled up by the Public Debt Office
Serial number of Bonds issued Denomination50,
100, 200, 500, 1,000, 5,000, 10,000
Total value of Bonds issued
Number and date of the forwarding schedule
Remarks
9
10
11
12
Total value of Bonds indented for Rupees....(in words and in the handwriting of the Collector).
Collector
District................
Date..............
Note below full address for despatch.
(Here give the full address of the Treasury Officer to whom the consignment of Bonds will be transmitted together with
specific instruction for despatch).
I, hereby certify that this indent has been prepared in accordance with the Rules and instruction issued for the purpose.
Collector
District................
Station............
Date................
Seal of the Collector
Form N (1)
[Register of Indents for Bihar Zamindari Abolition Compensation Bonds]
[See Rule 39 (5)]
[Substituted by Notification No. 4017 LR., dated 31.5.1960.]
District ...............
Number and date of indent
Name of payee (compensation-holder) with
parentage and residence
Number of bonds of each denomination indented
Total value of bonds indented for
Signature of the Collector/ Compensation Officer
Denomination
Number
1
2
3
Page 47/79
----- PAGE 48 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
4
5
6
Sub-Division..........
Number and date of forwarding schedule from the
Public Debt Office
Serial number of bonds supplied by[Public Debt
Officer, Patna]
[Substituted by Notification No. 339 L.R. dated 14.1.1960.]
Total value of bonds supplied
Signature of the Collector/ Compensation Officer
Remarks
Serial no.
Denomination
7
8
9
10
11
12
[Form N (2)]
[Substituted by Notification No. 339 L.R. dated 14.1.1960.]
[See Rule 31]
[Schedule of Bihar Zamindari Abolition Compensation Bonds forwarded by the Manager, Reserve Bank of India, Public
Debt Office, Patna]
Number and date of indent
For whom the Indent was received
Number of Bonds of each denomination despatched
Total value of Bonds supplied
Remarks
50, 100, 200, 500, 1,000 5,0000, 10,000
1
2
3
4
5
Memo No. ........
Dated .........
Forwarded in duplicate to the Treasury Officer of..........Secretary to the Government of Bihar, Finance Department,
Patna for information.
Manager.
Reserve Bank of India
Public Debt Office, Patna
Memo No. ........
Dated...........
Received the Bonds specified above and returned to the Manager, Reserve Bank of India Public Debt Office, Patna
Treasury Officer.
Station................
Date...................
Seal of the Treasury Officer.
[Form N (3)]
Page 48/79
----- PAGE 49 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
[Substituted by G.S.R. 44 dated 1.4.1974.]
Notice to the Compensation-Holder Tendering Payment of Compensation.
[See Rule 33 (2)]
In The Court of The Compensation Officer
No. ....................., dated the........
To,
(Name of the compensation-holder with parentage and residence.)
Name of Estate......................
Tauzi No. ..............................
KhewatNo. .........................
Village ...................................
Thana ...................................
Thana No. .............................
Subdivision
District
Whereas the net amount of compensation payable to you in respect of the vested estate/tenure specified above has
been determined to be Rs and is payable to you in bonds of the amount of Rs. ............... and/or in cash of the amount of
Rs. ................... you are hereby directed to appear personally or through an agent duly authorised to receive the same
in my Court/or at on the .......... 19 ........ between the hours 10.30 A.M. and 4.30 P.M.
Take notice that in default of your appearance on the said date, the bonds and/or the cash will be deposited with the
Collector of the district and thereafter the same can be received by you only on an application before the Collector of the
district within a period of three years from the said date.
Given under my hand and the seal of the Court, this day ........... of 200 ........
Seal of the Court.
Compensation Officer.
[Form N (3-A)]
[Substituted by G.S.R. 44, dated 1.4.1974.]
Notice to the Compensation-Holder Tendering Payment of the Net Amount Payable to him under Section 53A of The
Bihar Land Reforms Act, 1950 After Deductions And Matter Connected Therein.
[See Proviso to Rule 33 (2)]
Note. - This notice shall be sent by registered post with acknowledgement due.
In The Court of The Compensation Officer
Compensation Case No date the...................
To,
(Name of the compensation-holder with parentage and residence.)
Name of Estate
Tauzi No.
KhewatNo.
Village
Thana
Thana No.
District
Whereas after making deductions as specified below, the net amount on account of the fifty per cent of the approximate
amount of compensation payable to you under Section 32A has been determined to be Rs. ........... and the said amount
is payable to you in Bonds of the amount of Rs. .......... and/or in cash of the amount of Rs. ........... you are hereby
directed to appear personally or through an agent duly authorised to receive the same in my court/or at on the .............
200 .......... between the hours 10.30 A.M. to 4.30 P.M.
Take notice that -
(1)
in default of your appearance on the said date the Bonds and/or the Cash will be deposited with the Collector of the
district and thereafter the same can be received by you only on and before the Collector of the district within a period of
Page 49/79
----- PAGE 50 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
three years from the said date.
Form N (4)
Cash Payment Order
[See Rule 33 (2)]
Treasury Voucher No. ................. of ........ Head of Account "65. Payment Cash Payment order No. .............
compensation to land-holder Dated ........... etc., on the abolition of Zamindari system ......... Compensation."
District                             Sub-Division
To,
The Treasury Officer of ....................
Pay to .......... son/daughter/widow of resident of ................. P.S. ..................... district ............ the sum of Rs.
................... (Rupees..........) only, being the amounts of compensation payable in cash under the provisions of the Bihar
Land Reforms Act, 1950 (Act XXX of 1950) and the Rules made thereunder, vide Compensation Case No. ............of
200.......
2. The expenditure under this order is debitable to the Head "
3. This Order shall be valid for three months from the date of issue and no payment shall thereafter be made on the
Order unless duly revalidated by the Compensation Officer.
Signature of Compensation Officer.
Station.............
Date.................
Received Payment...........
Please pay to..............
Dated signature of thepayee's authorised agent
Signature or thumb impression of the payee with date.
Attested
Compensation Officer.
Date........
[One rupee]
[Vide Finance Act, 1994.]
receipt stamp for sums exceeding Rs. 500
Dated Signature of payee's (Dated signature of payee's authorised agent).
Certificate -
(1)
Certified that the amount noted in this order has been verified with the relevant records and found correct.
(2)
Certified that this order is made over to the actual payee his/her duly authorised agent whose signature/thumb
impression has been obtained in my presence and attested by me.
Compensation Officer.
Station.............
Dated..............
Checked with the advice list and noted in Register of Cash payment orders.
Pay Rs (rupees ) only.
Station.............
Dated..............
Treasury Officer.
[Form N (5)]
[Substituted by G.S.R. 44, dated 1.4.1974.]
Register of Payment of Compensation in Bonds/Cash
[See Rule-33 (2)]
District............
Subdivision...............
Serial No.
Page 50/79
----- PAGE 51 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
Name of the Compensation holder with parentage
and residence
Compensation case number with year
Net amount of compensation payable
Serial number of bonds of each denomination
issued to the compensation-holder as per Column 4
Total value of bonds
Amount of cash as per column 5
Date of delivery of bonds and/or payment of cash
to the Compensation holder
In bonds
In cash
Serial No.
Denomination
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
Signature of the Compensation-holder or his duly
authorised agent in token of receipt
Signature of the compensation officer with date
In case of non-delivery number and date of
Schedule forwarding the bonds and/or receipt for the deposit of
cash in "Rev. Deposit" to the Collector
Number and date of acknowledgement by the
Collector
Signature of the Compensation officer
Remarks
11
12
13
14
15
16
Form N (6)
Advice List of Cash Payment Orders issued for Payment
[See Rule 33 (2)]
Advice List No. ................ dated ............
(This number should be continuous for each financial year)
District............... Sub-Division........
Name of the payee with full address
Compensation case number
Number and date of the Cash Payment Order
Amount covered by the Cash Payment Order
Treasury voucher number and date
Page 51/79
----- PAGE 52 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
Remarks
1
2
3
4
5
6
Memo no. .................................. dated ............................
Forwarded to the Treasury Officer of .......................................
Station................Date...................Memo
no................
Compensation
Officer.Dated...........................
Returned the lower portion to the Compensation Officer..............after noting Treasury Voucher No. and date of payment.
(Office copy for the Treasury Officer)
Treasury Officer.
Date.............
(See below for instructions)
...............(Perforation to detach lower portion)............
Station...................
Date......................
Foil
To,
The Compensation Officer...................Advice List No..............dated................
(This number should be continuous for each financial year)
District.................................................Sub-Division..........................................
Name of the payee with full address
Compensation case number
Number and date of the Cash Payment Order
Amount covered by the Cash Payment Order
Treasury voucher number and date
Remarks
1
2
3
4
5
6
Rs.
Memo No. ..............
Dated..............
The above foil of advice is returned herewith after noting Treasury voucher number and date of payment.
Treasury Officer
Date....................
Instructions. - (1) The Treasury Officer should not encash any cash payment order till this advice list is received from the
compensation officer and compared by him with the cash payment order to see that the payee and the amount
mentioned in both the documents agree.
(2)
After payment of the cash payment order the Treasury Officer should detach the lower portion of the advice list and send
it to the Compensation Officer after noting therein Treasury voucher number and date of payment.
Form N (7)
Page 52/79
----- PAGE 53 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
Register of Cash Payment Orders On Treasury Under The Bihar Land Reforms Act, 1950
[See Rule 33 (2)]
District ...............
Sub-Division............
Number and date of cash payment order with date
of revalidation if any
Compensation case number with year
Amount covered by the Cash Payment Order
Name and full address of the payee
Treasury voucher number and date of payment
Initials of the Treasury Officer with date
Remarks
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
[Form N (8)]
[Substituted by Notification No. 339 L.R., dated 14.1.1960.]
No. ..............
Requisition for Bonds on
Treasury
[See Rule 33(3)]
To,
The Treasury Officer....................... Dated the .................. 200 .............
The undermentioned Bihar Zamindari Abolition Compensation Bonds may kindly be issued to me on the .............. 200
......... for delivery to the Compensation-holder concerned.
Compensation Officer.
Station..............
Date..................
Particulars of Bonds Requisitioned
Name of the Compensation holder
Description of Bonds
Total value of the Bonds requisitioned
Remarks
Serial Number
Denomination
1
2
3
4
5
Issue the Bonds specified in the above requisition.
Treasury Officer.
Date....................
Received the Bonds specified above.
Compensation Officer.
Date..............................
[Form No. (9)]
Page 53/79
----- PAGE 54 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
[Substituted by G.S.R. 41 dated 1.4.1974.]
of undelivered Bond and/or receipt for deposit of Cash in "Rev. Deposit" forwarded to Collector for deposit under Rule
33(5) or for being dealt with in accordance with Rule 33(15).
No. ............
To,
The Collector
Dated the .............
Sir,
The undermentioned undelivered Bihar Zamindari Abolition Compensation Bonds and/or receipt for deposit of Cash in
"Rev. Deposit" are herewith forwarded to you for deposit under Rule 33(5) or for being dealt with in accordance with
Rule 33(15) of Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951.
Please acknowledge receipt.
Yours faithfully,
Compensation Officer Station..........................
Particulars for the undelivered Bonds and/or receipt for deposit of cash in "Rev. Deposit" forwarded to the Collector for
deposit under Rule 33(5) or for being dealt with in accordance with Rule 33(15).
Compensation of the case no. with year
Name of the Compensation-holder with parentage
and residence
Sl. No. of Bonds of each denomination
Total value of bonds
Cash payment orders
Remarks
Sl. No.
Denomination
Sl. No.
Amount
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Rs.
Rs.
Rs.
Memo No. ............... dated the ..............
200...........Specified above
Received the
documentCollectorDistrict..........
[Form No. (10)]
[Substituted by G.S.R. 41 dated 1.4.1974.]
Register of Undelivered Bonds and/or receipt of undisbursed cash deposit in "Rev. Deposit" received by the Collector for
deposit under Rule 33(5) or for being dealt with in accordance with Rule 33 (15).
[See Rule 33 (5) and Rule 33 (15)]
Serial No.
From, whom received
Date of Receipt
No. and date of Schedule forwarding the Bonds
Page 54/79
----- PAGE 55 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
and/or receipt of cash deposited in Revenue "Deposit."
Compensation case no. with year
Name of the Compensation-holder with parentage
and residence
Sl. of bonds of each denomination received
Sl. No.
Denomination
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Total value of bonds received
Amount of cash as per receipt of "Revenue
Deposit".
Signature of the Collector-with date
Date of delivery of bond and or payment of cash
to the Compensation holder or his duly authorised agent by the
Collector
Signature of the compensation holder or his duly
authorised agent in token of receipt
Signature of the Collector with date
9
10
11
12
13
14
In case bonds are not delivered within three
years, no. and date of the Schedule forwarding the bonds to the
Public Debt Office, Patna
No. and date of acknowledgement from the Public
Debt-Office, Patna
In case of nonpayment of the cash within three
years from the date of the return of the receipt of "Rev.
Deposit" to the compensation officer after cancellation.
Number and date of acknowledgment of receipt for
cash deposit, in "Rev. Deposit" from the compensation
officer.
Signature of the Collector with date
Remarks
15
16
17
18
19
20
[Form N-11]
Page 55/79
----- PAGE 56 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
[Substituted by Notification No. 339 LR, dated 14.1.1960.]
of Undelivered Bonds forwarded by the Collector to the [Public Debt Office Patna]
[Substituted by Notification No. 339 LR, dated 14.1.1960.]
for deposit [or being dealt with under Rule 33 (15)]
[Inserted by Notification No. 4017 LR, dated 30.5.1962.]
[See Rule 33(7) [and Rule 33 (15)]
[Inserted by Notification No. 4017 LR, dated 30.5.1962.]
No. .............
From
The Collector of ........
To,
The Manager
Reserve Bank of India, [Public Debt Office, Patna]
[Substituted by Notification No. 339 LR, dated 14.1.1960.]
Dated the..........200......
Sir,
The undermentioned undelivered Bihar Zamindari Abolition Compensation Bonds are returned herewith for deposit
under Rule 33(7) [or for being dealt with under Rule 33(15)]
[Inserted by Notification No. 4017 LR, dated 30.5.1962.]
of the Bihar Land Reforms Rule, 1951. Please acknowledge receipt.
Yours faithfully,
Collector
Particulars of Bonds returned to the [Public Debt Office, Patna]
[Substituted by Notification No. 339 LR, dated 14.1.1960.]
.
Number and date of forwarding Schedule with which
the Bonds were supplied by the Public Debt Office.
Name of the proprietor/ tenure holder in whose
favour the Bonds were issued
Serial number of Bonds of each denomination
returned
Total value of Bonds returned
Brief reasons for return
Serial number
Denomination
1
2
3
4
5
6
Rs.
Rs.
Memo No.
dated............19
Received the Bonds specified in 2[the schedule above and returned to the Collector of.........
Manager, Reserve Bank of India, [Public Debt Office]
[Substituted by Notification No. 339 LR, dated 14.1.1960.]
, Patna.
[Form N (11-A)]
[Inserted by Notification No. 4580 LR, dated 29.6.1967.]
Page 56/79
----- PAGE 57 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
(In triplicate)
Sub-rule (7) of clause (e) or sub-rule 15 of Rule 33; requisition/cancellation undelivered Bond(s) sent to the Public Debt
Office, Patna in terms of
[See Rule 33A (2) (3)]
No. .............. dated ..........
From,
The Collector of ........
To,
The Manager,
Reserve Bank of India,
Public Debt Office, Patna.
Sir,
The undermentioned Bihar Zamindari Abolition Compensation Bond(s) was/were returned to the Public Debt Office;
Patna vide this Office Schedule No. ........... dated ........... 200 .......... and was/were acknowledged by the Public Debt
Office, Patna, vide their Memo No. ............. dated...........200.
2. The claimants) has/have now requested for delivery of his/her/their Bond(s). The claim has been verified and found to
be correct, hence, the aforesaid Bonds may now be sent to...........(here write the name and address of the Treasury
Officer to whom the Bonds are to be sent).
3. The claimant (s) is/are the successor(s)-in-interest of the compensation-holder (since deceased) and his/their claim
has been recognised. It is, therefore, requested that the aforesaid Bonds may be cancelled in terms of sub-rule 15(b) of
Rule 33. A requisition in Form 'N' for issue of fresh Bonds in the name (s) of the successor (s) in interest is enclosed.
Particulars of the Bonds returned to the Public Debt Office
No. Distinguishing nos. of Bonds.
DenominationRs.
AmountRs.
Total amount of Bonds (in words)............(amounts in words to be stated by the Collector himself).
Yours faithfully
Collector.
Seal
"Strike out which is not applicable."
Form N (12)
Monthly Statement of Payment of Compensation in Cash For.
The Month Of. 200....
[See Rule 33(9)]
District.........................Subdivision...........................Anchal..........................
Amount or cash disbursed to the previous month.
Amount of cash disbursed during the month.
Total
Amount of cash drawn but not disbursed during the
month.
Remarks
1
2
3
4
5
Compensation officer
Collector
Date.........................
Form N (13)
Advice List of Cancellation Receipts For Cash Deposited in, Rev. Deposit" Returned To Compensation Officer.
Page 57/79
----- PAGE 58 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
[See Rule 33(11)]
To,
The Compensation Officer..............
Dated..............
The undermentioned Receipts for cash deposited in "Rev. Deposit" which are lying undelivered with me for more than
three years and have therefore been cancelled by me under the Rules, are returned herewith for necessary action.
Please acknowledge receipt.
Station.............Date...............
CollectorDistrict..............
Particulars of receipt for cash deposited in, "Rev. Deposit"
Compensation case no. with year
Name of the compensation holder with parentage
and residence
Cash
Remarks
No. and date of receipt.
Amount
1
2
3
4
5
Memo No. .......
Date...............
Received the Cancellation Receipts for cash deposited in "Rev. Deposit" specified above.
Station.............
Date.................
Form N(14)
Receipt for Annual Instalment of the Principal with Interest on Bihar Zamindari Abolition Compensation Bond
[See Rule 35(2)]
Received from the Government Treasury at................the annual instalment of the principal with interest due on the Bihar
Zamindari Abolition Compensation Bonds, as noted below :-
No. of Bond
Amount of each Bond
Amount of yearly instalment
Number of yearly instalment(s) due
Total amount due
Date up to which instalment is due
Name of the holder of the Bonds.
Principal
Interest
Principal
Interest
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Page 58/79
----- PAGE 59 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
9
Rs.
Rs.
Rs.
Deduct income tax at-pies Surcharge, Net amount
payable, Total-
Rs.
Rs.
Total received (in words......)
Signature
(State whether holder or holder's attorney or administrator)
Date........
[For Use In Treasury]
[Substituted by Notification No. 339 LR, dated 14.1.1960.]
Treasury Voucher No. and date
Classification of charges on account of -
Total
[Date of Payment made]
[Added by Notification No. 5521 LR dated 6.7.1966.]
Principal under head" N - Public Debt, etc.
Interest under head[16-Interest on debt and
other obligations, etc."]
[Added by Notification No. 5521 LR dated 6.7.1966.]
1
2
3
4
5
Rs.
Rs.
Net amount payable.
Pay Rs. ....... (in figures as well as in words) only as specified above.
Treasury Officer.
Treasury....................
[Form N (15)]
[Substituted by Notification No. 339 L.R., dated 14.1.1960.]
Register of payment of Annual/Instalments of the Principal and Interest on Bihar Zamindari Abolition Compensation
Bond
[See Rule 35 (2)]
Date
No. of vouchers
Name of payee
No. of the bond
Amount of bond
Particulars of payment
Amount of net income-tax deduction
Net amount paid
Daily total of net payment
Treasury Officer's signatures
Date up to which paid
No. of years for which paid
Page 59/79
----- PAGE 60 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
Principal
Interest
Total
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
Rs.
Rs.
Rs.
Rs.
Rs.
Rs.
Rs.
Note. - From this register will be copied a schedule under each of the head ". - Public Debt/65 Payment, etc." (for the
principal) and "22-Interest, etc." (for the interest) and these schedules together with voucher should accompany the
monthly list of payments submitted to the Accountant-General.
[Form N (15-A)]
[Inserted by Notification No. 339 L.R., dated 14.1.1960.]
Register of Bihar Zamindari Abolition Compensation Bonds enfaced for payment of annual instalments of Principal and
Interest at the...............Treasury..............District
[See Rule 32(5)]
Serial No.
No. and date of advice from the public Debt
Office
No. of bonds
Value of bonds
Amount of instalment of principal
Date up to which instalment was last paid
1
2
3
4
5
6
Rs.
Rs.
Particulars of payment of instalments year ending
date and date of payment of instalment
Treasury Officer's initials
1st instalment
Page 60/79
----- PAGE 61 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
2nd instalment
3rd instalment
4th instalment
7
8
9
10
11
No. and date of advice of cancellation of
enfacement
No. and date of Income-tax Exemption/Abatement
Certificate
Treasury Officer's initials
Remarks
12
13
14
15
Note. - (1) The entries in sub-column 8 should be attested by the dated initials of the Treasury Officer. When instalment
vouchers are passed by the Treasury Officer before the due date in terms of paragraph 42 of the Government Securities
Manual (3rd edition), the pay order and the entry in column 8 should be dated with the due date and not with the date on
which the payment order may actually happen to be passed. In such cases the payment order should not, however be
delivered to the party before the due date.
(2)
As the dates of payment of instalments will be different, year ending date and the date of actual payment should be
noted against each bond in sub-column of column 8.
Form N (16)
Stock and Issue Register of Bihar Zamindari Abolition Compensation Bonds
[See Rule 32 (3)]
Date
Opening balance
Receipt
Total
Issues
Signature of compensation officer in token of
receipts
Closing balance
No. of bonds
Amount
No. of bonds
Amount
No. of bonds (Clos 2 plus 5)
Amount (cols 2 plus 5)
Number of bonds
Amount
Number of bonds (Cols. 6 minus 8)
Amount (Cols 7  and minus 9)
1
2
3
4
Page 61/79
----- PAGE 62 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
Rs.
Rs.
Rs.
Rs.
Rs.
[Form N (17)]
[Substituted by Notification No. 339 L.R., dated 14.1.1960.]
Letter to the Treasury Officer, initiating delivery of Bonds to Compensation-holders
[See Rule 33 (2)]
No. .............
From,
The Compensation Officer.......
To,
The Treasury Officer...........
dated............the..........200.....
Sir,
The following Bihar Zamindari Abolition Compensation Bonds which are endorsed for payment at your Treasury or at the
Sub-Treasury sub-ordinate to your Treasury, have been delivered by me to the Compensation-holders as detailed in the
attached list on the dates mentioned therein.
2. An acknowledgement of receipt is requested.
Yours faithfully,
Compensation Officer.
List of Bonds delivered to the compensation-holders
Name of compensation holder
Serial no. of bonds delivered
Total amount of bonds
Treasury at which payable
Amount of annual instalment on account of
principal
Interest
Date of issue
Year
Amount
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Details of Closing Balance
Denomination of bonds
Page 62/79
----- PAGE 63 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
Numbers
Amount
1
2
3
Rs.
Rs. 50
Rs. 100
Rs. 200
Rs. 500
Rs. 1,000
Rs. 5,000
Rs. 10,000
Total closing balance....
Signature of Treasury Officer.
Form N (18)
[Letter from Compensation Officer forwarding Bonds and Challans in respect of compensation payable to limited owners
or holder of Life Interest.]
[See Rule 38 (2)]
No. .......
From
The Compensation Officer.
To,
The Collector, district....
Dated........,the.........200........
Sir,
As required under sub-section (4) of Section 32 read with Rule 38, I am to forward for necessary action the following
bonds and challans in respect of compensation payable to limited owners or holders of life interest as detailed in the
attached list. Specimen signatures/left thumb impressions of each of the limited owners or the holders of life interest are
given in column 8 of the list for purposes of identification at the time of payment.
The duplicate copy of the list may be forwarded to the Treasury Officer for record.
An acknowledgement of receipt is requested.
Yours faithfully,
Compensation Officer.
List of Bonds and Challans forwarded for deposit.
Name of limited owner/ holder of life interest
with full address
Serial number of Bonds forwarded for deposit in
his/her behalf
Total amount covered by the Bonds
Date of issue of Bonds
Challans with which cash compensation kept in
revenue deposit in his/her behalf
Specimen signature/ left thumb-impression of the
recipient (limited owner or holder of life interest).
Number
Date
Amount
1
2
3
Page 63/79
----- PAGE 64 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
4
5
6
7
8
Rs.
Rs.
Form N (19)
[Register of bonds and Cash payable to limited owners or holders of life interest]
[See Rule 38 (2)]
Name of the limited owner/ holder of life
interest with full address
Serial No. of Bonds kept in deposit in his/ her
behalf
Total amount covered by the Bonds
Date issue of the Bonds
Challans with which cash compensation kept in
revenue deposit
Letter No. and date forwarding the Bonds and
Challans
Initials of the Collector/ Treasury Officer
Remarks
Number
Date
Amount
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
Rs.
Rs.
[Form N (20)]
[Substituted by Notification No. 339 LR, dated 14.1.1960.]
[Requisition for Bonds and/or Challans in respect of compensation payable to limited owners/holders of life interest]
[See Rule 38 (3)]
No. ................District................
To,
The Treasury Officer..........
The undermentioned Bihar Zamindari Abolition Bonds and Challans may kindly be issued to me on the.........200...........,
for payment of interest (and instalments) to the limited owners and holders of life interest as detailed below.
Station ................
Collector
Date
Particulars of Bonds and Challans Requisitioned
Name of limited owner/ holder of life interest
Page 64/79
----- PAGE 65 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
Particulars of Bond
Total value of Bonds requisitioned
Particulars of Challan
Amount
Remarks
Serial number
Denomination
Number
Date
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Rs.
Rs.
Issued the Bonds and Challans specified in the above requisition.
____________
Treasury Officer
Date..................
Received the Bonds and Challans specified above.
____________
Collector.
Date..................
[Form N (20-A)]
[Substituted by Notification No. 339, L.R., dated 14.1.1960.]
[Application for re-deposit of Bonds and/or Challans in respect of compensation payable to limited owners/holders of Life
Interest in the Treasury for safe custody]
[See Rule 38 (3)]
No. .............
Dated..............200......
To,
The Treasury Officer............
The undermentioned Bihar Zamindari Abolition Bonds and/or Challans are re-deposited herewith in the Treasury, for
safe custody, as detailed below:
Station...........Date?...........
.................Collector
Particulars of Bonds and Challans re-deposited in the Treasury for safe custody.
Name of limited owner/ holder of life interest
Particulars of Bonds
Particulars of Challans
Remarks
Serial No.
Denomination
Number
Date
Amount
1
Page 65/79
----- PAGE 66 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
2
3
4
5
6
7
Rs.
Received the Bonds and Challans specified above.
____________
Treasury Officer
Date..................
Form N (21)
Weekly statement of Bonds issued in payment of compensation under the Bihar Land Reforms Act, 1950 for the week
ending...........200....
[See Rule 33 (14)]
District..............
Date of delivery of bonds
Number and denomination of bonds issued
Total number of bonds issued (columns 2 to 8)
Total amount covered by the bonds issued
Remarks
Rs. 10,000
Rs. 5,000
Rs. 1,000
Rs. 500
Rs. 200
Rs. 100
Rs. 50
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
Rs.
Note. - There should be separate entry relating to each day's transaction during the week under report and a total of
columns 2 to 10 struck for the entire transaction of the week.
[Form N (22)]
[Inserted by Notification No. 10373 L.R., dated 8.10.1963.]
of Bonds and/or Cash Payment Orders forwarded to Collector for correction
[See Rule 33(4-A)]
From
The Compensation Officer,
To,
The Collector,
Dated the............200........
Page 66/79
----- PAGE 67 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
Sir,
As required under Rule 33 (4A) of the Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951, I am to forward the following Zamindari
Abolition Compensation Bonds and/or Cash Payment Orders for correction of mistakes therein.
2. An acknowledgement of receipt is requested.
Yours faithfully.
Compensation Officer.
Particulars of the Bonds and/or Cash Payment Orders forwarded to the Collector for correction.
Compensation case No. with year
Name of Compensation-holder with parentage and
residence in whose favour Bond/ Cash payment order have been
issued
Serial No. of Bond of each denomination
Total value of bonds
Cash Payment order
Correction to be made
Serial No.
Denomination
Serial No.
Amount
Name
Parentage
Any other matter
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
Memo No. ....................dated the.................200..........
Received the document specified above and returned to the Compensation Officer.............
Collector.............
[Form N (23)]
[Inserted by Notification No. 10373 LR, dated 8.10.1963.]
of Bonds forwarded by the Collector to the Public Debt Office, Patna for correction
[See Rule 33 (4-A)]
From
The Collector of.......
To
The Manager,
Reserve Bank of India,
Public Debt Office, Patna.
Dated the..........200......
Sir,
The undermentioned Bihar Zamindari Abolition Compensation Bonds are returned herewith for making necessary
corrections therein under Rule 33 (4-A) of the B.L.R. Rules, 1951.
Yours faithfully
Collector.
Page 67/79
----- PAGE 68 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
Particulars of the Bonds returned to the Public Debt Office, Patna.
No. and date of forwarding Schedule with which
the bonds were supplied by the Public Debt Office
Name of Compensation-holder with parentage and
residence in whose favour bonds were issued
Serial No. of Bonds of each denomination returned
Total value of Bonds returned
Correction to be made.
Any other details
Serial No.
Denomination
Name
Parentage
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Memo No. ............................................ dated, the ....................... 19 .....................
Received the Bonds specified above and returned to the Collector of ...............
Manager, Reserve Bank of India,Public Debt Office, Patna.
"A"
Referred To In This Security Bond
Particulars of the Trust property
TauziNo. with the name of estate
KhewatNo. in case of tenure
Nature and extent of interest held under trust
Names of villages with Thana and Thana No. in
whichTauzior interest held under trust is situated
1
2
3
4
[Form (O)]
[Inserted by Notification No. 1644 LR, dated 24.2.1960.]
Security Bond
[See Rule 25-G (3)]
This Agreement is made on the...............day of...........200.....between...........son of...............resident of..............P.S.
...............District..........on the one part and the State Government of Bihar through the Collector of district on the other
part.
Whereas I/we am/are representing the true and lawful trustee(s) of the trust property specified in the Schedule 'A' hereto
annexed;
And Whereas ad interim payments in respect of the said trust property have been duly sanctioned to me/us as trustee
(s) representative (s) of trustee (s) of the said trust property for the period from...........to......by order dated........in ad
interim payment case No. .............. of..........200...........and the State Government through the said Collector have
consented to make the said ad interim payment upon me/our giving security of Rs. .............(Rupees...........) to meet a
claim by a rightful trustee(s) of the said trust property in case there shall be such a claim;
Now these presents witness that in pursuance of the aforesaid agreement I/we hereby oblige myself/ourselves to make
Page 68/79
----- PAGE 69 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
good the claim of the rightful trustee (s) in respect of the said trust property and I/we hereby further agree that this
security bond may be held by the said Collector on behalf of the State Government and the said Collector on behalf of
the State Government may assign the security bond to the rightful trustee (s) of the said trust property.
In witness whereof I/we set my/our hand(s) here to this day the........2000.....
Principal (s)
I/We.............son (s) of............resident (s) of.......P.S. ............... district .............. hereby/undertake to make good any
claim to the rightful trustee(s) of the trust property mentioned in the Schedule 'A' hereto in case the Principal (s)
makes/make default in payment of the claim by virtue of the above agreement.
Signed by the witness mentioned in the presence of..............
Surety.
[Form "O" (1)]
[Added by Notification No. 1644 LR, dated 24.2.1960.]
[Notice of claim to the proprietor/tenure-holder]
[See Rule 11(1)]
In The Court of The Claims Officer............
District..............
To,
(Give name and address of the intermediary)
Whereas..............(give name and address of the claimant-petitioner) has brought a claim against you, as detailed in the
enclosed copy of the petition of claim, you are hereby called upon to answer the claim either in person or by an agent
who is acquainted with the facts of the case and to file a written statement admitting or denying the aforesaid claim
within 15 days of the service of the notice or within such further time as the Court may allow.
Take notice that if you fail to submit your written statement without any just or reasonable ground within the period
aforementioned, the claim will be heard and determined in your absence.
Given under my hand and the seal of the Court this............day of..........200........
Claims Officer
[Form O (2)]
[See Rule 25-G(1)]
(Stamp Fee - Rs. 1-50)
Know all men by these presents that ............I,.............son of...............resident of village/mohalla............P.S.
.............District............hereby acknowledge to have received from the Government of Bihar a sum of Rs.
...........(Rupees......) on account of ad interim payment under Section 33 of the Bihar Land Reforms Act, 1950, for the
period from..........to..........sanctioned by Order No. .................. dated ........... of the office of the .............. on behalf of
myself and all my co-sharers (including minors) as the Karta/adult member of the joint family/the minor Sri ..........(here
give name, parentage and residence of the minor) as his guardian and for and on behalf of myself and for and on behalf
of my co-sharers/the said minor, I hereby undertake in consideration of the payment of the aforementioned amount to
hold the State Government fully indemnified in respect of claims to any ad interim payment, due to myself/any of my
co-sharers (including minors) of the joint family the said minor for the aforesaid period on account of our/his intermediary
interests vested in the Government of Bihar under the Bihar Land Reforms Act, 1950.
In witness whereof I set my hand hereunto this day the year of 200............Signature of the Karta of the Joint Hindu
family/guardian of the minor.
(1)
Witness.........................
(2)
Witness..........................
Address........................
Address..........................
Occupation...................
Occupation.....................
Form P to Form P (5)
[X X X X]
Page 69/79
----- PAGE 70 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
[Omitted by G.S.R. 62, dated 19.9.1981.]
[Form P (6)]
[Added by Notification No. 1644 L.R., dated 24.2.1960.]
Public Notice
[See Rule 21 (1)]
To Whomsoever it May Concern
Whereas the amount of compensation/annuity payable in respect of the intermediary interest mentioned in the Draft
Compensation Assessment-roll attached herewith has been determined and the draft Compensation Assessment roll
prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Bihar Land Reforms Act, 1950.
And whereas the amount of compensation specified in the said Draft Assessment-Roll is the entire amount of
compensation payable in respect of the interest of the intermediary in the estate/tenure or part thereof referred to therein
and the person (s) named therein is/are presumed to be the only person (s) entitled thereto.
Therefore, it is notified for general information that this notice is being published on [...........]
[The date to be filled up in (b) will be 90 days after the date mentioned in (a).]
(a) and that objections, if any, in respect of an entry in the said Draft Assessment Roll may be filled by any person in my
Court on or before [............]
[The date to be filled up in (b) will be 90 days after the date mentioned in (a).]
(b).
Given under my hand and seal of the Court this day ..........200..........
Compensation Officer.
[Form Q]
[Added by Notification No. 1644 L.R., dated 24.2.1960.]
Register of outgoing intermediaries and the heirs for purposes of settlement of Hats, Bazars, Melas with them in the first
instance under Section 7-C of the Bihar Land Reforms Act, 1950
[See Rule 7-0]
Cases
Name of estate/ tenure withtauzi-Khewatnumber and date of vesting
Name of village with Thana and Thana No., in
which Hat,Bazar orMelaheld before the date of
vesting.
Description of the land on which Hat,BazarorMelaheld before the date of vesting
Classification (as recorded in settlement)
Plot number
Area
1
2
3
4
5
6
Nature of Sairat (Hat/
BazarorMela)
Name of outgoing intermediaries with parentage
and postal address
Name of heirs of outgoing intermediaries name din
column 3 with parentage and postal addresses and their
relationship with the intermediaries
Attestation by the Collector or the prescribed
authority
Remarks [Here give date of correcting the entry
as per orders on objections or on mutations with reference to the
Page 70/79
----- PAGE 71 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
case record in each case. (Rules 7-N and 7-O)]
7
8
9
10
11
[Form R]
[Substituted by Notification No. 4017 dated 31.5.1960.]
[See Rule 40 (1)]
Note. - (i) The Register will be maintained intermediary-wise.
(ii)
An index will be maintained for this register in which the intermediaries will be shown alphabetically with reference to
page no. and entry in Register S.
(iii)
Challan no. with date showing deposit by Transfer Credit of the amounts shown as adjusted in Columns 4 to 8 will be
noted in Column 15.
District....................................Sub-division.............................Anchal....................................
Name of the outgoing intermediary and address
Tauzi/ Khewatno. with name of village,
Thana and Thana No.
Extent of interest
Adinterim paymentin excess of 2 ½
per cent [Section 33(2)]
Arrears of revenue [Section 4(c)]
Arrears of cesses [Section 4(c)]
1
2
3
4
5
6
Particulars of adjustments against compensation
Any other amount ordered to be recovered by the
Collector [Section 4(c)]
Excess rent collected after date of vesting with
consent of the intermediary [Section 4(cc)]
Amount of compensation payable to a temporary
lessee under Section 24(2) (proviso to Rule 30)
Amount of compensation payable to a creditor
under Section 24(5) [proviso to Rule 30]
Amount of compensation foregone for settlement ofHat/ Bazar/ Mela(1st proviso to Rule 39)
7
8
9
10
11
Total amount to be adjusted against compensation
[columns 4+5+6+7+8+9+10+11]
Reference to the compensation case record
Attestation by the Compensation Officer incharge
under his dated signature
Page 71/79
----- PAGE 72 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
Remarks
12
13
14
15
[Form S]
[Added by Notification No. 1644 L.R., dated 24.2.1960.]
Tauzi-wise Index of Applications for Compensation under the Bihar Land Reforms Act, 1950
[See Rule 40(2)]
District............................Sub-division..............................Anchal........................
TauziNo. (in serial order)
KhewatNo. under theTauzinoted in
column 1
Name of outgoing proprietor of theTauzinoted in column 1 and his address
Name of the outgoing tenure-holder ofKhewatnoted in column 2
No. and date of application for compensation if
any filed in respect of-
Tauzinoted in column 1
Khewatnoted in column 2
1
2
3
4
5
6
Nature and extent of interest as given in the
compensation application filed
Whether compensation awarded
Reference to the compensation case record
Remarks
7
8
9
10
[Form T]
[Added by Notification No. 1644 L.R., dated 24.2.1960.]
Tender by Registered Outgoing Intermediaries And/Or Their Heirs For Taking Settlement of Hat/Bazar/Mela Under
Section 7-C of The Act
[See Rule 7-P (1)]
Note. - An outgoing intermediary agreeing to forego compensation in respect of the Hat/Bazar/Mela proposed to be
settled may submit his tender in this form.]
I/We ........... [Give name (s) of intermediary/intermediaries and or his/their heir(s) with parentage and addresses] hereby
tender for taking settlement of the Hat/Bazar/Mela commonly known as .............(Specify name of Hat, Bazar, Mela, if
any) in plot No. ........... measuring an area of..........acres in village........Thana........Thana No. .........for which the reserve
Jama has been fixed at Rs. ............ for a period of...........years commencing from.............200......I/We further agree to
forego compensation in respect of such Hat/Bazar/Mela.
Note. An intermediary may have more than one interest, but as the compensation record will be one for all his interest,
the same no. of the record will be repeated against all his interest and the entries will be cross checked with the
intermediary wise register. (Form R) so that no entry left by oversight.
I/We hereby accept and agree to abide by and fulfil the terms and conditions specified below:
Terms aand Conditions
Page 72/79
----- PAGE 73 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
(1)
After the tender is accepted by the Competent Authority and before the period of settlement commences, the tender(s)
shall execute a lease in Form P (3) which should be registered formally. Failure to comply with this clause will involve
cancellation of the tender.
(2)
Any amount due on account of the settlement including any penalty or compensation for loss or damage shall be
recoverable from the lessee(s) and his/their heir(s) together with interest at the rate of 6¼ per centum per annum as if it
were a public demand.
Dated the............200.........
Signature of
theWitness............Address............Occupation.........
...............Signature of the party making
the tender.
The above tender is hereby accepted.
Dated the........... 200......
Collector/Additional Collector
Acceptance communicated on...........200.
Signature of the party making the tender.
[Form T (1)]
[Added by Notification No. 1644 L.R., dated 24.2.1960.]
Tender by Registered Outgoing Intermediaries and or Their Heirs for Taking Settlement of Hat/Bazar/Mela Under
Section 7C of The Act
[See Rule 7-P (2)]
Note. - An outgoing intermediary not agreeing to forego compensation in respect of the Hat/Bazar/Mela proposed to be
settled may submit his tender in this form.]
I/We ............ [Give name(s) of intermediary/intermediaries and/or his/their (s) with parentage and addresses] hereby
tender for taking settlement of the Hat/Bazar/Mela commonly known as ............ (specify name of Hat/Bazar/Mela, if any)
comprised in plot No. ................. measuring an area of ........... acres in village ..........., Thana..........., Thana No.
............... at an annual Jama of Rs. ........... (Rupees............) as against the fixed reserve Jama of Rs. .............. a year
for a period of ............. years commencing from..............200............for which I/We have deposited in the Treasury/with
the Nazir an earnest money of Rs. ............ and a copy of that Treasury challan/Nazir's receipt is attached herewith.
I/We hereby accept and agree to abide by and fulfil the terms and conditions specified below :-
Terms and Conditions
(1)
The tenderer(s) shall deposit in the Treasury/with the Nazir an earnest money at the rate of two per cent of the reserve
Jama and shall invariably attach a copy of the Treasury Challan/Nazir's receipt to his/their tender before it is submitted.
In the event of the tender Form T(1) being accepted, such earnest money shall be converted into security deposit for the
due execution and registration for the lease [Form P (4)] as well as for the due observance and performance of the
terms and conditions of this lease.
(2)
The successful tenderer(s) shall, as soon as the tender is declared successful, deposit in the Treasury/with the Nazir
twenty-five per cent of the amount tendered as an advance which shall be adjusted at the end when the last instalment
of the Jama falls due. Failure to deposit the same will involve forfeiture of the earnest money referred to in clause (1).
(3)
After the tender is accepted by the Competent Authority and before the period of settlement commences, the tenderer(s)
shall execute a lease in Form P (4) which should be registered formally. Failure to comply with this clause will, in
addition to forfeiture of the earnest money, involve cancellation of the tender.
(4)
Any amount due on account of the settlement including arrears of the Jama or any penalty or compensation for loss or
damage shall be recoverable from the lessee(s) and his/their heir(s) together with interest at the rate of 6¼ per cent per
annum as if it were a public demand.
Page 73/79
----- PAGE 74 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
Dated the.................200...........Signature ofThe Witness............Address............Occupation.........
...............Signature of the party making
the tender.
The above tender is hereby accepted.
Dated the...............200........
Collector/Additional Collector
Acceptance communicated on..................200...........
Signature of the party making the tender.
[Form U]
[Added by Notification No. 4017 L.R. dated 31.5.1962.]
Affidavit to be sworn by the sole recipient of bonds under Section 32-B.
(See Rule 41)
In the Court of Magistrate............................................
Affidavit
I...........son/wife of.......resident of village ............... P.S. ........... P.O. ......... district ............... solemnly affirm and declare
:-
That I am the only claimant having or entitled to my vested interests covered by Compensation Case No. ...........of.....
That I have not received any compensation under the provisions of the Bihar Land Reforms Act, 1950 from any other
Compensation Officer.
That the above statement is true to the best of my knowledge and belief.
Deponent.
Dated..........200.
[Form U (1)]
[Added by Notification No. 4017 LR, dated 31.5.1962.]
[Affidavit to be sworn by all the co-sharers of a joint Hindu Family under Section 32-B]
[In the case of minors, the affidavit will be obtained from the guardians.]
(See Rule 41)
In the Court of Magistrate.............................................
Affidavit
We, ...................... solemnly affirm and declare ..................
That we are the only claimants who are members of a Joint Hindu Family having or entitled to shares in our vested
interests according to the details given below and that we have no other co-shares having or entitled to a share in such
interests covered by Compensation Case no. ............ of ..... on the date of vesting under the Bihar Land Reforms Act,
1950.
That we have not received any compensation under the provisions of the Bihar Land Reforms Act, 1950 from the other
Compensation Officer.
That the above statement is true to the best of our knowledge and belief.
Details of shares in the vested interests covered by compensation
Case no. ..............of................
Name of co-sharers with parentage
Full address
Extent of share of each co-sharer named in column
1.
1
2
3
Dated the...........200.....
Deponents.
[Form U (2)]
[Added by Notification No. 4017 L.R., dated 31.5.1962.]
[Affidavit to be sworn by all the co-sharers of a Joint Hindu Family under Section 32-B]
Page 74/79
----- PAGE 75 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
[In the case of minors, the affidavit will be obtained from the guardians.]
(See Rule 41)
In the Court of Magistrate,............................................
Affidavit
We, ...................... solemnly affirm and declare:-
That we are the only claimants who are members of a Joint Hindu Family having or entitled to shares in the vested
interests covered by compensation case no of................according to the details given below,and that there are other
co-sharers having or entitled to shares in the said interests on the date of vesting under the Bihar Land Reforms Act,
1950 according to the details given below and that such other co-sharers have not joined in filing this affidavit.
That we have not received any compensation under the provisions of the Bihar Land Reforms Act, 1950 from any other
Compensation Officer.
That the above statement is true to the best of our knowledge and belief.
A. Details of shares of those co-sharers who have joined in filing this affidavit.
Name of co-sharers with parentage
Full address
Extent of share of each co-sharer named in column
1.
1
2
3
B. Details of shares of other co-sharers who have not joined in filing this affidavit
Name of co-sharers with parentage
Full address
Extent of share of each co-sharer named in column
1.
1
2
3
Dated the........200..........
Deponents.
Form U (3)
[Affidavit to be sworn by the successors-in-interest where a compensation holder dies after the bonds have been
indented for and/or the cash payment order has been made out but before delivery.]
[In the case of minor, the affidavit will be obtained form the guardians.]
[Vide Rule 33(15)]
In the Court of Magistrate,............................................
Affidavit
I/We.............solemnly affirm and declare:-
That I am/we are the only claimant(s) who is/are the successors(s) in interest of..............s/o.............by
caste..............resident of village..............P.S. ................District.............whose compensation was determined in
compensation case No. .......... of ............. but who died before the compensation bonds and/or the cash payment order
could be delivered to him and that the details of the extent of the interest held by me/us in the quantum of the
compensation referred to above is/are as follows :-
Details of shares in the vested interests covered by compensation case no. ............of......
Name of co-sharer(s) with parentage
Full address
Extent of share of each co-sharer named in column
1
Extent of interest to temporary lessee referred
to under Section 24(2)
Extent of interest of secured creditor referred
Page 75/79
----- PAGE 76 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
to under Section 24(5)
1
2
3
4
5
I/We declare that there is no other person having any interest in the compensation referred to above. The above
statement is true to the best of my/our knowledge and belief.
Deponent
Dated the ........... 200.
Identified By :-
Form V
Register of trusts for charitable or religious purposes in respect of which annuity has been sanctioned under Section
24(3) of the Bihar Land Reforms Act, 1950.
(To be maintained in the office of the Collector)
(See Rule 43)
Serial No.
Compensation case No. in which payment of Annuity
sanctioned
Particulars of the Trust deed by which Trust was
created
Name of the Trustee/ Mutawali/ Shebait with
Father's name and address
Amount of annuity
Payable from
Annuity payment order no.
Initials of the Gazetted Officer
Remarks
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
Form V (1)
Register of Annuity Payment Orders issued on ...... Treasury sanctioned under Section 24(3) of the Bihar Land Reforms
Act.
(To be maintained in each District Treasury/Sub-Treasury.)
(Separate page to be allotted to each annuity-holder)
(See Rule 43)
1. Name of Trust .............................................................................................
2. Name and address of Trustee/Mutawali/Shebait ...................................
3. No. and date of A.P.O. ..............................................................................
4. Amount of annuity - Rs. .............................. P. ............................per year
5. Year of payment .........................................................................................
Voucher No. ...........................................................................................
Date of payment.....................................................................................
Initial of T.O. ...........................................................................................
Page 76/79
----- PAGE 77 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
Remarks ................................................................................................
1963.
1964.
1965.
Form V (2)
Bill for perpetual annuity payments to Trustee/Mutawali/Shebait sanctioned under Section 24(3) of the Bihar Land
Reforms Act..........
(See Rule 43)
Bill for payment of perpetual annuity for the period .....................
District.............Head of Account..............Treasury Voucher No. ............. of list of payment for ......................
Name of Trustee/ Mutawali/ Shebait with father's name, etc
Annuity
Payment No.
Order
AmountRs.
Total
Total (in words)..........................
Received contents
Signature of the payee
Please pay to......
Signature of the payee
Pay Rupees................
Examined..................
Accountant
Treasury Officer
Dated.
Notifications
S.O. 609 dated 30th June, 1988. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 17 of the Bihar Land Reforms Act,
1950 (Bihar Act XXX of 1950) and in supersession of Revenue and Land Reforms Department Notification No. S. O.
3586/R, dated 28th December, 1979, the Governor of Bihar is pleased to constitute a Board under sub-section (1) (a) of
Section 18 of the said Act which shall consist of only one member namely Hon'ble Shri Syed Ali Ahmad, a Judge of High
Court of Judicature at Patna, to whom an appeal involving the claims exceeding rupees ten thousand shall lie against
any decision of the Claims Officer under Section 16 of the said Act.
S.O. 1104 dated 2nd November, 1988. - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (b) of sub-section I of Section 18
of the Bihar Land Reforms Act, 1950, (Bihar Act XXX of 1950), the Governor of Bihar is pleased to constitute a Board
consisting of the District Judges of each of the Judgeships noted in the schedule attached to hear appeals where the
value of claims does not exceed Rupees ten thousand for the territorial jurisdiction over the districts noted against each
of them.
Sl. No.
Designation
Area
District Judge.
Whole of District
1.
Aurangabad
Aurangabad
2.
Begusarai
Begusarai
3.
Bhagalpur
Page 77/79
----- PAGE 78 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
Bhagalpur
4.
Bhojpur Judicial Commissioner.
Bhojpur
5.
Ranchi District Judge.
Ranchi and Lohardagga
6.
Darbhanga
Darbhanga
7.
East Champaran
East Champaran
8.
Gaya
Gaya and Jahanabad
9.
Nawadah
Nawadah
10.
Giridih
Giridih
11.
Hazaribagh
Hazaribagh
12.
Katihar
Katihar
13.
Madhubani
Madhubani
14.
Monghyr
Monghyr and Khagaria
15.
Muzaffarpur
Muzaffarpur
16.
Nalanda
Nalanda
17.
Patna
Patna
18.
Palamau
Palamau
19.
Purnea
Purnea
20.
Rohtas
Page 78/79
----- PAGE 79 -----
Bihar Land Reforms Rules, 1951
Rohtas
21.
Saharsa
Saharsa
22.
Madhepura
Madhepura
23.
Santhal Pargana
Santhal Pargana and Sahebganj
24.
Deoghar
Deoghar
25.
Godda
Godda
26.
Saran
Saran
27.
Samastipur
Samastipur
28.
Sitamarhi
Sitamarhi
29.
Siwan
Siwan
30.
Gopalganj
Gopalganj
31.
Chaibassa
Chaibassa
32.
Vaishali
Vaishali
33.
West Champaran
West Champaran
34.
Gumla
Gumla
35.
Dhanbad
Dhanbad
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 79/79