
----- PAGE 1 -----
Bihar District Boards and Municipal Preparation of Electoral Rolls and Conduct of Election...
Bihar District Boards and Municipal Preparation of Electoral Rolls and
Conduct of Elections (Barring of Courts Jurisdiction) Act, 1951
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/42632242/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Bihar - Act
Bihar District Boards and Municipal Preparation of Electoral Rolls and Conduct of Elections (Barring of Courts
Jurisdiction) Act, 1951
BIHAR
India
Bihar District Boards and Municipal Preparation of Electoral Rolls and Conduct of Elections (Barring of Courts
Jurisdiction) Act, 1951
Act 36 of 1951
Published on 30 November 1951
Commenced on 30 November 1951
[This is the version of this document from 30 November 1951.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Bihar District Boards and Municipal Preparation of Electoral Rolls and Conduct of Elections (Barring of Courts
Jurisdiction) Act, 1951
Bihar Act
36 of 1951
For Statement of Objects and Reasons please see the Bihar Gazette, 1951, Part V, P. 818.
President's assent published in the Bihar Gazette, Extraordinary, of the 30th November, 1951.
An Act to modify the provisions of the Bihar and Orissa Local Self-Government Act of 1885 and the Bihar and Orissa
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Bihar District Boards and Municipal Preparation of Electoral Rolls and Conduct of Election...
Municipal Act, 1922, so as to bar the jurisdiction of courts in all matters appertaining to the preparation of electoral rolls
of electoral circles of district boards or wards of municipalities and conduct of elections thereto.
Whereas it is expedient to modify the provisions of the Bihar and Orissa Local Self-Government Act of 1885 and the
Bihar and Orissa Municipal Act, 1922, so as to bar jurisdiction of courts in all matters appertaining to the preparation of
electoral rolls of electoral circles of district boards or wards of municipalities and conduct of elections thereto.
It is hereby enacted as follows:-
1.
Short title.
- This Act, may be called the Bihar District Boards and Municipal Preparation of Electoral Rolls and Conduct of Elections
(Barring of Courts Jurisdiction) Act, 1951.
2.
Definitions.
- In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context,-
(a)
"executive" in relation to a district board or of a municipality means the Chairman or Vice-Chairman of a district board or
of a municipality, as the context in each case may require and include the President of a municipality; and
(b)
all words and expressions used in this Act and not defined have the meanings respectively assigned to them in the Bihar
and Orissa Local Self-Government Act, of 1885 and the Bihar and Orissa Municipal Act, 1922, and the rules made under
clause (a) of Section 138 of the first mentioned Act and Sections 15 and 19 of the second mentioned Act.
3.
Bar of jurisdiction of Courts in all matters appertaining to preparation of electoral rolls of electoral circles of district
boards and wards of municipalities and conduct of elections thereto.
- Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in force no election of a member of a district board or
a commissioner of a municipality or of an executive shall be called in question except under the procedure provided by
the Bihar and Orissa Local Self-Government Act of 1885 or the Bihar and Orissa Municipal Act, 1922 or any rules made
thereunder and no Court shall have jurisdiction-
(a)
to entertain or adjudicate upon any question whether any person is or is not entitled to be registered in an electoral roll
for an electoral circle of a district board or a ward of a municipality, or
(b)
to question the legality of any action taken by or under the authority of a registration officer or of any decision given by
any authority appointed by or under any such enactment for the revision of any such roll, or
(c)
to question the legality of any action taken or of any decision given by a returning officer or by any other person
appointed by or under any such enactment in connection with the election; or
(d)
to question the legality of any action taken or any decision given by any presiding officer at a meeting held in connection
with the election of the executive,
and no Court shall grant an injunction-
(i)
to postpone an election of a member or commissioner or an executive, as the case may be, or
(ii)
to prohibit a person, declared to have been duly elected under any such enactment, from taking part in the proceedings
of the district board or municipality of which he has been elected a member or commissioner or an executive, as the
case may be, or
(iii)
to prohibit a member or commissioner formally elected to district board or municipality, as the case may be, or an
executive elected by such board or municipality from entering upon his duties.
4.
Amendment of Section 19 of the Bihar and Orissa Municipal Act, 1922.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Bihar District Boards and Municipal Preparation of Electoral Rolls and Conduct of Election...
- In Section 19 of the Bihar and Orissa Municipal Act, 1922 after the word "Commissioners", the words "the Chairman,
Vice-Chairman and the President" shall be inserted.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3