
----- PAGE 1 -----
Bihar Prevention and Control of Agricultural Pests, Diseases and Noxious Weeds Act, 1953
Bihar Prevention and Control of Agricultural Pests, Diseases and
Noxious Weeds Act, 1953
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/133539165/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Bihar - Act
Bihar Prevention and Control of Agricultural Pests, Diseases and Noxious Weeds Act, 1953
BIHAR
India
Bihar Prevention and Control of Agricultural Pests, Diseases and Noxious Weeds Act, 1953
Act 22 of 1953
Published on 1 July 1953
Commenced on 1 July 1953
[This is the version of this document from 1 July 1953.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Bihar Prevention and Control of Agricultural Pests, Diseases and Noxious Weeds Act, 1953
[Bihar Act
22 of 1953
]
Last Updated 31st January, 2020
[Dated 01.07.1953]
An Act to provide for the prevention and control of insect pests, plant diseases and noxious weeds injurious to crops,
plants or trees in the State of Bihar.
Whereas it is expedient to provide for the prevention and control of insect, pests, plant diseases and noxious weeds
Page 1/5
----- PAGE 2 -----
Bihar Prevention and Control of Agricultural Pests, Diseases and Noxious Weeds Act, 1953
injurious to crops, plants or trees in the State of Bihar;
It is hereby enacted as follows: -
1.
Short title and extent.
- This Act may be called the Bihar Prevention and Control of Agricultural Pests, Diseases and Noxious Weeds Act,
1953.
(2)
It extends to the whole of the State of Bihar.
2.
Definitions.
- In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context, -
(a)
"Agricultural Officer" means an agricultural officer appointed under Section 10;
(b)
"Deputy Director of Agriculture" means an officer-in-charge of a Range of the Agriculture Department comprising the
local area notified under Section 3 or any other person appointed by the State Government to discharge all or any of the
functions of the Deputy Director of Agriculture under this Act;
(c)
"insect pest"means any insect or other invertebrate animal which has been declared to be an insect pest by notification
under Section 3;
(d)
"notified area" means any area specified in the notification issued under Section 3 in which a declaration made under
the said section shall remain in force;
(e)
"noxious weed" means any weed declared to be a noxious weed by notification under Section 3;
(f)
"occupier" means the person having for the time being the right of occupation of land or his agent, authorised agent or
any person in actual occupation of the land and includes a local authority having such right of occupation or in such
actual occupation;
(g)
"plant" includes all agricultural or horticultural crops, trees, bushes or herbs or the seed, fruit or any part thereof which is
used for food of man or beast or for any purposes in connection with art or manufacture;
(h)
"plant diseases" means any fungoid, bacterial virus, parasitical or other disease declared to be a plant disease by
notification under Section 3; and
(i)
"prescribed" means prescribed by Rules made under this Act.
3.
Power to declare insect pests, diseases, noxious weeds and direct measures to eradicate or prevent them.
- Whenever it appears to the State Government that any pest, disease or weed is injurious to plants in any local area
and that it is necessary to take measures to eradicate such pest, disease or weed, or to prevent its appearance, spread
or re-appearance, the State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette and in such other manner as may be
prescribed. -
(i)
declare that such pest, disease or weed is an insect pest, plant disease or noxious weed;
(ii)
specify the local area within which and the period during which the declaration shall remain in force;
(iii)
prohibit or restrict the movement or removal of any plant, earth, soil or manure from any place in the notified area to any
place outside it;
(iv)
Page 2/5
----- PAGE 3 -----
Bihar Prevention and Control of Agricultural Pests, Diseases and Noxious Weeds Act, 1953
direct the carrying out of such preventive or remedial measures, including the destruction of any insect pest, plant
disease or noxious weed or any plants as the State Government may deem necessary in order to eradicate such pest,
disease or weed or to prevent its introduction, spread or re-appearance, and
(v)
prescribe the period within which it shall not be lawful to plant with a specified crop the whole or any portion of the
notified area.
4.
Duties of occupier on the issue of a notification under Section 3.
- On the issue of a notification under Section 3, every occupier within the notified area shall be bound to carry out the
preventive or remedial measures mentioned in such notification.
5.
Power of Agricultural Officer to enter upon any lands.
- Any Agricultural Officer may, after giving the prescribed notice, enter upon any land situated in the notified area within
his local jurisdiction for the purpose of ascertaining -
(i)
whether there is any insect pest, plant disease or noxious weed on such land; and
(ii)
whether the preventive or remedial measures or both, as the case may require, mentioned in the notification issued
under Section 3 have been carried out.
6.
Notice to occupier to carry out preventive or remedial measures.
(1)
If, on the inspection of any land under Section 5, the Agricultural Officer finds that there is an insect pest, plant disease
or noxious weed on such land and that the preventive or remedial measures mentioned in the notification issued under
Section 3 have not been carried out, the Agricultural Officer may, subject to any general or special orders of the State
Government, call upon the occupier of such land, by notice in writing, to carry out such preventive or remedial measures
within the time specified in such notice.
(2)
Within seven days from the date of the service upon him of the notice under sub-section (1) the occupier may prefer an
appeal to the Deputy Director of Agriculture or to such other officer as the State Government may appoint.
(3)
On receipt of the appeal under sub-section (2), the Deputy Director of Agriculture or other officer, as the case may be,
may extend the time specified in the notice under sub-section (1) and shall, after giving the occupier opportunity of being
heard, pass such order on the appeal as he thinks fit.
(4)
An order passed under sub-section (3) of this section shall be final and conclusive and shall not be liable to be called in
question in any Court.
(5)
The State Government may grant such subsidy as may be prescribed to an occupier who carries out the preventive or
remedial measures contained in the order of the Agricultural Officer, subject to any order in appeal, under this section.
7.
Failure to comply with notice under Section 6 and power of Agricultural Officers to carry out measures.
(1)
If, any occupier upon whom a notice has been served under sub-section (1) of Section 6 does not comply with such
notice within the time specified therein, or if an appeal has been preferred under sub-section (2) of Section 6, does not
comply with the order passed on such appeal within the time specified in such order, the Agricultural Officer may carry
out at the expense of the occupier, to be calculated in the prescribed manner, the preventive or remedial measures
mentioned in such notice or order:
Provided that the charges for the use of implements shall not be included in such calculation.
(2)
The costs of any preventive or remedial measures carried out under subsection (1) shall be payable by the occupier and
Page 3/5
----- PAGE 4 -----
Bihar Prevention and Control of Agricultural Pests, Diseases and Noxious Weeds Act, 1953
shall be recoverable from him as an arrear of land revenue.
(3)
Any such occupier may, within thirty days from the date of the first demand of such costs from him, prefer an appeal to
the Deputy Director of Agriculture or to such other officer as the State Government may appoint in this behalf on the
ground that the cost includes charges for items other than those prescribed, or that the charges for any of the prescribed
items are unreasonable.
(4)
On receipt of the appeal under sub-section (3), the Deputy Director of Agriculture or other officer appointed by the State
Government shall, after giving the occupier an opportunity of being heard, pass such orders thereon as he thinks fit.
(5)
An order passed under sub-section (4) shall be final and conclusive and shall not be liable to be called in question in any
Court.
8.
Duty of certain village officers to report appearance of insect pests, plant diseases or noxious weeds.
(1)
If any insect pest, plant disease or noxious weed appears in any village adjoining a notified area, the mukhia of the
Gram Panchayat, the chaukidar or headman of such village shall forthwith report the fact to such officer as the State
Government may appoint in this behalf.
(2)
Such officer shall on, receipt of such report and after making such further inquiry as he may deem necessary, forward it
to the State Government through the Director of Agriculture with his remarks thereon and the State Government may
pass such orders thereon as it thinks fit.
9.
Offences and penalties.
(1)
Whoever removes any plant, earth soil or manure in contravention of the directions contained in a notification issued
under Section 3 shall, on conviction by a Magistrate, be punishable with fine which may extend to fifty rupees or, in
default with simple imprisonment for a period not exceeding ten days.
(2)
Any occupier who fails to comply with a notice under sub-section (1) of Section 6 or with any order passed on appeal
under sub-section (3) of Section 6 shall on conviction by a Magistrate, be punishable with fine which may extend to fifty
rupees or, in default, with simple imprisonment for a period not exceeding ten days.
(3)
Whoever having once been convicted of an offence under sub-section (1) or (2) is again convicted of an offence under
either of these sub-sections shall be punishable with fine which may extend to one hundred rupees or, in default, with
simple imprisonment not exceeding fifteen days.
10.
Appointment of Agricultural Officers.
- The State Government may by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint persons not below the rank of a member of
Class II of the Bihar Agricultural Service as Agricultural Officer for such local areas as may be specified in the
notification.
11.
Bar of suits or other legal proceedings.
(1)
No suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall lie against the State Government or any other officer of the State
Government or any other person in respect of anything in good faith done or intended to be done under this Act for any
damage to property caused by any action taken in good faith in carrying out the provisions of this Act.
(2)
No prosecution under this Act shall be commenced without the previous sanction of the Deputy Director of Agriculture or
any other officer authorised by the State Government in this behalf or, in any case, after three months from the date of
the commission of the alleged offence.
Page 4/5
----- PAGE 5 -----
Bihar Prevention and Control of Agricultural Pests, Diseases and Noxious Weeds Act, 1953
12.
Delegation of powers.
- The powers conferred on the State Government under this Act may, with the exception of the powers under Section
13, be delegated by the State Government to the Director of Agriculture.
13.
Power to make Rules.
(1)
The State Government may, from time to time, make Rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.
(2)
In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may be made for all or any of the
following purposes: -
(a)
the form or manner of giving notice under Section 5;
(b)
the manner of making an inquiry under Section 5;
(c)
the method of publication of description of insect pests, plant diseases, noxious weeds and the treatment to be followed;
(d)
prescribing the subsidy which the State Government may pay to an occupier under sub-section (5) of Section 6;
(e)
prescribing the manner in which the cost should be calculated under sub-section (1) of Section 7 and the items which
should be taken into account in calculating such costs;
(f)
prescribing the officers to whom an appeal may be made and the procedure to be followed in such appeal under Section
6 and 7;
(g)
prescribing the notices and methods of service thereof, and registers needed for the effective working of the Act; and
(h)
any other matter which is required to be or may be prescribed.
(3)
The Rules made under this Section shall be subject to the condition of being made after previous publication.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 5/5