
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Bihar Forest Service Rules, 1953
The Bihar Forest Service Rules, 1953
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/7420233/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Bihar - Act
The Bihar Forest Service Rules, 1953
BIHAR
India
The Bihar Forest Service Rules, 1953
Rule THE-BIHAR-FOREST-SERVICE-RULES-1953 of 1953
Published on 30 April 1955
Commenced on 30 April 1955
[This is the version of this document from 30 April 1955.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Bihar Forest Service Rules, 1953
Published vide Notification No. C/F-1012/55-1635-R, dated 30th April, 1955
Notification No. C/F-1012/55-1635-R. The 30th April, 1955. - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to Article
309 of Constitution of India, and in supersession of the rules published with Revenue Department Notification No.
6132-III-F.-12, dated the 1st July 1947, as amended from time to time, the Governor of Bihar is pleased to make the
following rules, regulating recruitment to, and the conditions of service, pay and allowances of persons appointed to the
Bihar Forest Service, namely:-
Part I
1.
Short title.
- These Rules may be called the Bihar Forest Service Rules, 1953.
Page 1/14
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Bihar Forest Service Rules, 1953
2.
Definitions.
- In these Rules, unless there is anything repugnant to the subject or context-
(i)
[ 'Chief Conservator' means the Principal Chief Conservator of Forest;]
[Substituted by S.O.1313 dated 26.12.1989.]
(ii)
'Commission' means the Bihar Public Service Commission;
(iii)
[ 'Member of the Service' means a person appointed to service under the provision of these Rules;]
[Substituted by S.O.1313 dated 26.12.1989.]
(iv)
'Part' means a part of these Rules;
(v)
'Scheduled Castes' means the castes enumerated in Part II of the Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order, 1950;
(vi)
'Scheduled Tribes' means the tribes enumerated in Part II of the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order, 1950.
(vii)
'The Service' means the Bihar Forest Service.
3.
The appointments of the service shall ordinarily be made by -
(a)
direct recruitment in accordance with Rules in Part II of these Rules by a competitive examination, to be held by the
Commission; and
(aa)
[ The Range Officer of Forest, who passes the Ranger Course securing Honours shall be eligible for admission to the
2nd year/2 (two) years of State Forest Service Course in Forestry conducted by Government of India. They shall be
treated as direct recruit to the Bihar Forest Service Cadre (as Assistant Conservator of Forests) and the provisions as
laid down in the Rule 29, shall be applicable to these selected Range Officers of Forests]
[Inserted by S.O.1313 dated 26.12.1989.]
(b)
by promotion in accordance with the Rules contained in Part V of selected Rangers-
(i)
Who have obtained the Honours or the high standard certificate at the Forest College, Dehra Dun, or at any State Forest
School or College, established for the training of Ranger students and who by unusual ability and industry in the course
of their service as [Range Officers of Forests]
[Omitted by S.O. 1313 dated 26.12.1989.]
have proved themselves fit for promotion; and
(ii)
who have long service, tried ability and probity, irrespective of their educational qualifications:
Provided that approximately twenty-five per centum of the total number of posts in the Service at any time shall be held
by person appointed to the Service by promotion.
4.
The Government shall decide from time to time the number of vacancies to be filled by direct recruitment and/or by
promotion, respectively.
Part II ? Direct Recruitment
5.
The Commission shall announce in each year in such manner as they think fit, the number of vacancies in the service to
be filled by direct recruitment on the result of a Competitive Examination and shall invite applications from candidates
eligible under Rule 6. The Competitive examination will be conducted by the Commission [*******]
[Omitted by S.O. 1313 dated 26.12.1989.]
Page 2/14
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Bihar Forest Service Rules, 1953
.
6.
For the purpose of admission to the Competitive Examination for this Service, a candidate must-
(a)
[ not be less than 21 years or more than 30 years on the 1st April at the year of examination. The maximum age limit for
candidates of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes will be 35 years. The maximum age limit for the candidates
trained as Range Officers of forests can be relaxed by 5 years;]
[Substituted by S.O. 1313 dated 26.12.1989.]
(b)
of good moral character;
(c)
be of sound health, good physique and active habits and free, from organic defects of bodily infirmity likely to interfere
with the efficient performance of the duties of a member of the Bihar Forest Service;
(d)
hold-
(i)
[ Bachelor's degree in Natural Science, Forestry, Mathematics, Statistics, Geology, Mechanical, Electronics, Civil and
Chemical Engineering, Agriculture or Economics of a recognised Indian University;]
[Substituted by S.O. 1313 dated 26.12.1989.]
(ii)
a Master degree in Natural Science or Agriculture, Mathematics (after B.Sc. Course) "or Geology or Mechanical
Engineering" not lower than second class of a recognised Indian University;
(iii)
an equivalent foreign degree.
7.
A candidate shall apply to be admitted to the examination in his own handwriting in the prescribed form to the Secretary
to the Commission so as to reach him not later than such date as may be notified by the Commission in this behalf in
each year. The prescribed form and a copy of these are obtainable from the Secretary to the Commission.
8.
With his application a candidate must submit-
(i)
evidence of educational qualifications as prescribed in clause (d) of Rule 6;
(ii)
certificate of character and conduct from the heads of all the colleges in which he has studied since he passed the
Matriculation Examination;
(iii)
the name of two persons who know him in private life and are not his relative should be mentioned so that reference
may be made to them. A candidate must not file written testimonials of such persons and the references furnished by
him should not include college professors or principals unless they know the candidate at home;
(iv)
a preliminary certificate of health and fitness from any registered medical practitioner in the prescribed form which may
be obtained from the Secretary to the Commission;
(v)
evidence of age, which should ordinarily be a true copy of the matriculation certificate or its equivalent;
(vi)
if he claims to be domiciled in the State, certificate of domicile granted by the District Officer of the district in which he
claims to be domiciled.
Note. I - Persons holding posts in Government service in a temporary or officiating capacity are eligible to appear at the
examination, provided they are within the age limits prescribed in clause (a) of Rule 6. Persons who have been
confirmed in Government service are not so eligible. Applications from Government servants who are eligible to apply
should be submitted through the Authority empowered to forward the applications under the Bihar Government Servants
Page 3/14
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Bihar Forest Service Rules, 1953
(Application) for Posts Rules, 1956.
Note. II - True copies, attested by a Gazetted Officer or a responsible person, of the documents required under this Rule
should be sent with the application.The original documents should be brought by the candidates at the time of interview
or viva voce test.
Part-III Supplementary Instructions
The age of a candidate as recorded in his Matriculation Certificate will be regarded as correct unless there is proof to the
contrary. If a candidate claims that his age is other than as recorded in his Matriculation Certificate, High School Leaving
Certificate or its equivalent; he must submit with his application evidence on which he bases his claim. In such a case he
will be required to furnish among other evidence a satisfactory explanation to the circumstances in which a wrong age
was recorded on his form of application for permission to appear at the Matriculation Examination. He will also be
required to submit a statement of any attempts made by him to have the University records amended and the results of
such attempts.
9.
The Commission shall consider all applications received and shall select such candidates as possess necessary
qualifications mentioned in this Rule, but if the number of candidates to be admitted to the examination is unduly large
the Commission may fix a limit in any particular year as to the number of candidates who may be admitted to the
examination and if the number of candidates exceeds the limit so fixed, the Commission may make a preliminary
selection of candidates to be admitted to the written examination on the basis of their academic records :
Provided that no member of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes who is eligible under these Rules shall be
excluded from appearing at the written examination.
10.
The following minimum standards of physical fitness are prescribed :-(i) Height "1.8256 meter or 183 cms. (Round)"
Chest "0.784 meter or 79 cms. (Round)" expansion to 0.8508 meter or 85 cms. Round (ii) the candidates will be required
to undergo a physical test consisting of a walk over of "25.7495 kilometers (25 Kilometers Round)" to be covered in 4
hours and they will be examined by a Medical Officer before and after the test, (ii) those who pass the physical test will
be allowed to sit at the written examination to be held for selection of candidates for appointment to the Service. The test
will be arranged by the Commission.
11.
Except under the special orders of Government, preference will be given to candidate who is either a native of the State
or a subject of the Indian Union domiciled in the State.
12.
A candidate must deposit the following fees:-
A. To the Commission-
(a)
Rs. 5 (Rupees five) only as application fee with the application :
Provided that candidates belonging to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes shall be required to pay a fee of Rs.
1.25 Paise (Rupees one and twenty five Paise) only with the application :
Provided further that the Commission may, at its discretion remit the prescribed application fee in cases of bona fide
displaced persons from Pakistan who are not in a position to pay such fee.
(b)
Rs. 50 (Rupees fifty) only as examination fee after a certificate for his admission to the examination has been issued :
Provided that candidates belonging to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes shall be required to pay a fee of Rs.
12.25 Paise (Rupees twelve and twentyfive Paise) only as examination fee :
Provided further that the Commission may, at its discretion remit the prescribed examination fee in case of bonafide
displaced persons from Pakistan who are not in a position to pay such fee.
B. To the Medical Board-Rs. 16 (Rupees sixteen) in cash at the time of examination by a Medical Board, in the case of
successful candidates.
Note 1. - Either Treasury Challans or crossed Indian Postal Orders payable to the Secretary, Bihar Public Service
Commission, will be accepted as application or examination fees. The fee must not be sent by cheques or bank Drafts.
The fee deposited into the treasury should be credited to the "XXI-Miscellaneous-Miscellaneous Departments-State
Examination Fees-Fees realised by the Bihar Public Service Commission".
Page 4/14
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Bihar Forest Service Rules, 1953
Note 2. - Candidates must see that they are eligible and must decide definitely to apply before depositing the fees in the
treasury in order to prevent disappointment, candidates are advised to have themselves examined by a Government
Medical Officer of and above the rank of a Civil Assistant Surgeon before applying for admission to the examination.
Candidate already in Government service should make sure before depositing the fee that their application will be
forwarded by the Competent Authority.
Note 3. - No claim for refund or any of these fees will ordinarily be entertained except to the extent stated in Appendix 'B'
nor can they be held in reserve for any other examination or selection.
13.
Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing provisions of these rules, the Commission may require a candidate
to furnish any such additional proof on any point as to his suitability as the Commission may deem necessary.
14.
(a)
Subject to the provision of these Rules, the decision of the Commission as to the eligibility or otherwise for admission to
the examination will be final.
(b)
The Commission,shall issue certificate of admission to all candidates who are to be admitted to the written examination.
(c)
A candidate to whom a certificate for admission to the written examination has been issued under Rule 14 shall send the
examination fee in accordance with Rule 12 so as to reach the Secretary of the Commission before such date as may
be fixed by him on this behalf. Delay in this respect may render a candidate's name liable to be removed from the list of
examinees.
15.
No candidate will be admitted to the examination unless he holds a certificate of admission from the Commission.
16.
The examination shall be held according to the syllabus specified in Appendix C to these Rules which are liable to
alteration from time to time by the Commission with the prior approval of the State Government.
17.
(a)
The minimum qualifying marks for the written tests, which shall be the total marks obtained in the written tests and not
the marks obtained in individual subjects, shall be as follows:-
[i]
For candidates belonging to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled
Tribes
...
35 per cent.
[ii]
For other candidates
...
45 per cent:
Provided that the Commission may, in any particular year, with the prior approval of the State Government, fix higher
qualifying marks in any or all the subjects at the written examination than those prescribed above :
Provided further that in determining the suitability of a particular candidate for appointment, the total marks obtained at
the written examination, and not the marks obtained in any particular subject or subjects the qualifying marks of which
have been raised, shall be taken into consideration.
(b)
There shall be no qualifying marks for the viva voce test but if a candidate fails to obtain qualifying marks at the written
test, he shall be disqualified for the viva voce test.
18.
From the marks assigned to candidates in each subject such deduction may be made as the Commission may consider
necessary to ensure that no credit is allowed for merely superficial knowledge.
19.
Page 5/14
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Bihar Forest Service Rules, 1953
If a candidate's handwriting is not easily legible, a deduction to the extent of five per centum may be made on this
account from the total marks obtained by him.
20.
On the basis of the marks obtained at the written examination the Commission shall arrange for a viva-voce test of the
candidates who have qualified at the written examination :
Provided that in exceptional circumstances with the prior approval of the State Government, the Commission may, at its
discretion, admit candidates of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes to the viva voce test even though they may
not have obtained the minimum marks at the written test prescribed under Rule 17.
21.
The Governor may appoint the Chief Conservator or any other senior Gazetted Officer of the Service to be present at
the viva voce test of the candidates. The Officer so appointed shall be present at the viva voce test and advise the
Commission on the apparent fitness of the candidates from the point of view of their possessing the special qualities
required in the service but he will not be responsible for the selection of candidates.
22.
The marks obtained at the viva voce test shall be added to the marks obtained at the written examination and the
candidate's place will depend on the aggregate of both.The name of candidates will then be arranged by the
Commission in order of merit. From the list of candidates so arranged, the Commission shall nominate such number of
candidates for this service as may have been fixed by the Governor. This list shall be submitted to the Governor (by
such date in each year as the Governor may fix).
23.
The Commission shall, while submitting its recommendations under Rule 22, consider the claims of qualified candidates
belonging to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. If the list of nominees submitted under Rule 22 does not
contain an adequate number of candidates belonging to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes who may be
appointed to the vacancies reserved for them in the Service, the Commission shall submit a supplementary list
nominating a sufficient number of such candidates as in their opinion attain the required standard of qualifications and
are in all respects suitable for appointment.
Success at the examination confers no right for appointment unless the State Government are satisfied on enquiry as
may be considered necessary, that the candidate is suitable in all respects for appointment to the public service.
24.
No recommendations except those invited in form of the application will be taken into considerations. Any attempt on the
part of a candidate to obtain support for his application by other means will disqualify him for appointment.
25.
Candidates selected for written, viva-voce test or Medical Board Examination will present themselves at their own
expense at a time and place of which they will be informed in due course.
26.
A consolidated result of the examination will be prepared by the Commission and relevant extracts will be supplied to
candidates who were admitted to the written examination after the selection for training has been announced by the
State Government under Rule 27.
27.
(a)
Such of the candidates nominated by the Commission as may be selected by the Governor, shall be examined by a
Medical Board convened by the Director of Health Services, Bihar. A candidate, who fails to obtain a medical certificate
of his fitness in form C appended to these Rules, shall not be selected for deputation to the Forest College, Dehra Dun.
The State Government will arrange for the medical examination of candidates by a Medical Board.
(b)
On considering the report of the Medical Board, the Governor may select candidates for deputation to the Forest
College, Dehra Dun.
28.
The names of the candidates selected for admission to the Forest College, Dehra Dun, should reach the President,
Forest Research Institute and College, Dehra Dun, not later than 1st September, of the year of admission along with the
following:-
Page 6/14
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Bihar Forest Service Rules, 1953
(a)
Evidence of age of each selected candidate;
(b)
Evidence of educational qualification (in original) of each selected candidate as prescribed in clause (d) of Rule 6; and
(c)
a certificate of "physical fitness."
29.
[
[Rule 29 Substituted by Notification No. C/F.-1(A)-10104/64-4297-R. dated 16.12.1964.]
Finally selected candidates shall be required to undergo a course of two years' training in Forestry at the Forest
Research Institute and College Dehra Dun. During the training period a candidate will receive a monthly stipend of Rs.
175 to meet his living expenses. A candidate who passes course in Forestry and is awarded Diploma Certificate from
the College authorities at the end of two year shall be appointed to the service as an Assistant Conservator of Forest
and shall be, on probation, for a minimum period of 2 years which period shall count for duty if he is confirmed. In case,
permanent vacancies be not available, the appointment will be made to the Assistant Conservator of Forest rank on
temporary basis. After he is appointed to service on probation either against a permanent post or is appointed against a
temporary post, he will draw Rs. 220 a month for the first year and thereafter, Rs. 245 a month on the recommendation
of the Chief Conservator of Forests until he is confirmed.]
30.
Finally selected candidates shall be required to execute a bond and an agreement in Form B, respectively; in Appendix
A to these Rule.
31.
(1)
No member of the Service appointed on probation shall be confirmed in his appointment until: -
(a)
He has completed the period of probation prescribed in his case; and
(b)
The State Government are satisfied, on the recommendation of the Chief Conservator, that he is fit for confirmation.
(c)
[ Passing of Departmental Examination shall be essential before confirmation in the service]
[Inserted by S.O. 1313 dated 26.12.1989.]
.
(2)
Until confirmed under this Rule, every such member of the Service shall, unless his appointment is terminated, continue
to hold his appointment on probation.
(3)
All orders of confirmation made under this Rule shall be notified in the Official Gazette.
Part IV ? Pay
32.
The following are the time-scale of [pay]
[See new Pay Scale.]
sanctioned for members of the Bihar Forest Service with effect from 1st April, 1964. Senior Grade-Rs. 730-35-
870-40-1070-EB-45-1,250 a month Junior Grade-?Rs. 325-30-505-E.B.-30-805-E.B.-30-985 (Maximum Rs. 925).
33.
On confirmation in the Service a member of the Service shall draw pay in accordance with the time-scale of the junior
grade, provided that the State Government may grant on first appointment advance increments according to age and
qualifications to a candidate who is above the age of 25 years and is exceptionally qualified in respect of scientific,
technical or administrative experience of attainments.
34.
A member of the Service shall be eligible for promotion to the post of Junior Selection Grade, Senior Selection Grade
and Super Time Scale Selection Grade, if found fit and fulfils required kalawadhi as prescribed by the Personnel and
Page 7/14
----- PAGE 8 -----
The Bihar Forest Service Rules, 1953
Administrative Reforms Department.
35.
Seniority of officers appointed to the Service shall be determined with reference to the date of their substantive
appointment to the Service.
(i)
in the case of members of the Service appointed by direct recruitment at the same time, their seniority inter se shall be
in the order of merit in which their names are placed in the list of successful candidates at the Final Examination of the
Indian Forest College, Dehra Dun;
(ii)
in case where appointments are made to the Service both by direct recruitment and promotion of selected Rangers at
the same time, the promoted members of the Service shall be senior to the members directly recruited; and
(iii)
the seniority inter se of Rangers on substantive appointment to the Service by promotion at the same time shall be their
seniority inter se held as Rangers.
Part V
36.
[
[Substituted by S.O. 1313 dated 26.12.1989.]
(i)
Selected Range Officers of Forest shall be considered for promotion under sub clause (i) of clause (b) of Rule 3 on the
basis of merit-cum-seniority on the recommendation of the Departmental Promotion Committee with the concurrence of
the Bihar Public Service Commission
(ii)
The number of Range Officer of Forests selected and recommended for promotion to the service will be double the
number of vacancies to be filled by promotion.
(iii)
The List of Selected Range Officers Oof Forests shall be prepared on the basis of merit-cum-seniority and their records
of service performance and annual confidential remarks].
37.
[
[Inserted by S.O. 1313 dated 26.12.1989.]
After scrutinising document forwarded by the Secretary to Government, Forest Department, the Commission shall send
to the Governor their recommendation about the suitability of the Officers for promotion to the service].
Part VI ? Promotion of Rangers
38.
The final selection of officers to be promoted shall be made by the Governor after considering the recommendations
made by the Commission under Rule 37.
39.
[
[Inserted by S.O. 1313 dated 26.12.1989.]
In the case of direct recruitment reservation shall be made as prescribed by Government in the Personnel and
Administrative Department from time-to-time. As per roaster prescribed by the Government reservation shall be followed
in case of promotion].
Appendix A
Form A
[Rule 30]
Bond
Know all men by these presents that we..................... of (principal obligor) .............. of .............. and ................. of
(sureties) are jointly and severally bound to the Governor of Bihar in the sum of Rs...............to be paid to the said
Governor, his successors in office or assigns or his or their certain attorneys or attorney which payment well and truly to
be made we bind ourselves, our heirs, executors, administrators and representatives and each of us binds himself, his
Page 8/14
----- PAGE 9 -----
The Bihar Forest Service Rules, 1953
heirs, executors, administrators and representative firmly by these presents sealed with cur seals and dated this
................ day of ............... One thousand nine hundred and .......................
Whereas the Governor of Bihar for himself and his successors in office and assigns has (subject to the conditions set
forth in an agreement bearing even date herewith and made between ............... of the first part, the said..... of the
second part and the Governor of Bihar) engaged to educate the said ..........................at the Dehra Dun Forest Research
Institute in all matters relating to forest science, forest works and forest administration that it may be deemed necessary
by the President of the said Institute to teach the said ................ and has also agreed to pay him during his stay at the
said Institute at the rate of Rs............................. a month and whereas the cost per annum of such education without any
such allowance being included is estimated at Rs......................... a month which shall be taken and is hereby agreed to
be the actual cost for the purpose of these presents and whereas in consideration of such education and pay to be given
to the said ............... as aforesaid by the said Governor and his successors in office and assigns the said ................ has
agreed with the said Governor, his successor in office and assigns that he will after completing his studies at the said
Institute, and if required to do so, serve in the Forest Department of the Government of Bihar for a period of not less
than five years during the whole of which time he will diligently and efficiently do all acts and discharge all duties which
may be required of him to be done in his capacity as an Officer of the said Department, and whereas the said Governor
has also on his part agreed that the said ....................shall be paid for such service at the rate of not less than
Rs........................ a month provided that the said .................... shall "have completed the course to the satisfaction of the
President of the said Institute and shall be entitled according to his pay grade to all the rights and privileges in respect of
pay, pension and promotion accorded to officers of the said Department for the time being by the Rules and Regulations
of the Department. And whereas for the purpose of securing and indemnifying the said Governor, his successors in
office and assigns against all losses and damage which he or they might or may in any way suffer by person of the said
.................. being dismissed from or leaving without permission the said Institute before the completion of his studies
there or the service of the said Governor, his successors in office or assigns before the expiration of five years from the
date of the completion of such studies and for the purpose also of securing the refund to the said Governor, his
successors in office and assigns of the total cost (including the monthly payments to be made to the said ......................
while at the said Institute as aforesaid) incurred by the said Governor his successors in office or assigns in respect of the
education of the said .................. at the said Institute and in consideration of the payment and education so as aforesaid
to be made and given to the said .................. and the said Institute and as one of the conditions of the admission of the
said .................. to the said Institute it has also been agreed that the said .................. and the said ................. and
............... as his sureties should execute the above-written bond subject to the condition hereinafter contained. Now the
condition of the above-written bond or obligation is such that if the said .................. shall well and faithfully and diligently
pursue and complete his studies at the said Institute and qualify for the said Forest Service and shall also after
completing his studies at the said Institute, and if so required to do, serve the said Governor, his successors in office
and assigns in the Forest Department of the Government of Bihar for a period of not less than five years and shall during
the whole of such period diligently and efficiently do all acts and discharge all duties which may be required to be done
by him in his capacity as an officer of the said Department and shall satisfy his bond and the said agreement of even
date herewith or if the said .................... and or either of them, their or either of their heirs, executors administrators and
representatives shall well and truly indemnify the said Governor, his successors in office and assigns against all loss
and damage which he or they shall in any way suffer by reason of said .................. being dismissed either while at the
said Institute or while in the service of Government thereafter or of his leaving without permission the said Institute
before the completion of his studies or the services of the said Governor, his successors in office or assigns before the
expiration of five years from the date of such completion and shall in the event of any such dismissal or leaving without
permission as aforesaid also pay the said Governor, his successors in office or assigns the cost of the education of the
said ............ at the said
Institute (including the said monthly payments so to be made as aforesaid) than the above-written bond of obligation
shall be void otherwise the same shall remain in full force and virtue. Provided always and it is hereby expressly agreed
and declared that these presents shall be treated and considered as entered into under the orders of the Governor of
Bihar for the performance by the said ................ of a public duty and an act in which the public are interested within the
meaning of Section seventy-four of Act, IX of one thousand eight hundred and seventy two of the Legislative Council of
India.
In witness whereof the said parties to these presents have hereunto set their respective hands and seals the day and
Page 9/14
----- PAGE 10 -----
The Bihar Forest Service Rules, 1953
year first above-written.
Witnesses. -
Signature. -
1.2.3.
1.2.3.
Form B
[Rule 30]
Agreement
Articles of Agreement made and entered into this .................... day of one thousand nine hundred ...................
between.................of...............the first part ............... of .......... ward of the said of the second part and the Governor of
Bihar. Whereby each of the parties thereto so far as the covenants and conditions hereinafter contained are or ought to
be observed not performed by him covenants with the other of them as follows:-
1. The said ................ hereby of his own free will and consent and with the approbation and consent of the said
.................testified by the execution by him of these present agrees with the Governor, his successors in office and
assigns that the said ............... shall throughout the prescribed period of the Institute Course of ................. years will
diligently and faithfully pursue his studies at the Research Institute, Dehra Dun use his best endeavour to qualify for the
Forest Service of the Government of Bihar.
2. The said ................... shall after completing his studies at the said Research Institute and if so required to do serve
the Governor, his successors in office and assigns in the Forest Department of the Government in Bihar for a period of
not less than five years and shall during the whole of such period diligently and efficiently do all acts and discharge all
duties which may be required to be done by him in his capacity as an officer of the said Department.
3. The Governor for himself, his successors in office and assigns hereby engages to educate the said ................... at the
Research Institute Dehra Dun, in all matters relating to the forest science, forest works and forest administration that it
may be deemed science, necessary by the President of the said Institute to teach the said...................
4. The Governor shall pay the said ..................during his study to the said Research Institute at the rate of
Rs....................... a month which may be increased provided that the President of the said Institute is satisfied with his
work and behaviour and thereafter provided that the said .................... complies with the Rules now in force for the direct
appointment of candidates to the Service in Bihar and thereafter while the said ................... shall faithfully and diligently
serve as an officer of the said Forest Department at the rate of not less than Rs. ................ a month provided that the
said .............. shall have completed the course to the satisfaction of the President of the said Institute and the said
............ shall be entitled according to his pay and, grade to all the rights and privileges in respect of pay, pension and
promotion accorded to officer of the said Department for the time being by the Rules and Regulations of the Department.
5. Lastly it is hereby agreed and, declared that the Governor, his successors in office or assigns shall be at liberty in the
event of the negligence, failure to attend to duty, illness or any subordination or misconduct on part of the said
................. at any time during the said Institute course of the said service as to which a certificate under the hand of the
President of the said institute or the Chief Conservator of Forests, Bihar, respectively, shall be conclusive evidence and
binding on the said ................. to rescind this agreement and to dismiss him from the said Research Institute or the
service of the said Department or both of them and in such case the said ................... shall not be entitled to any of the
privileges hereby granted to him, and the said ...................... shall thereupon refund to the Governor, his successors in
office or assigns the total cost (including the monthly payments to be made to the said ......................... while at the said
Institute as aforesaid) incurred by the Governor or his successors in office or assigns in respect of the education of the
said at the ................... said institute with cost (inclusive of the said payments) shall for the purpose of these presents be
taken to be the sum of .................
6. This agreement is intended to be ratified by the said ............................ when he.................attains
his.........................majority.................
In witness whereof the said parties to these presents have hereunto set their respective hands and seals the day and
year first above written.
Witnesses. -
Signature. -
1.
1.
Page 10/14
----- PAGE 11 -----
The Bihar Forest Service Rules, 1953
Form C
Medical Board's Reports
The following intimation is made for the guideline of the Medical Examiner:-
No person will be deemed qualified for admission to the Public Service who shall not satisfy Government or the
appointing authority, as the case may be, that he has no diseases, constitutional affection or bodily infirmity unfitting him,
or likely to unfit him for that service.
The Commission desires that it should be understood that the question of fitness involves the future as well as the
present, and that one of the main objects of medical examination is to secure continuous effective and in the case of
candidates for permanent appointment, to prevent early pension or payments in case of premature death. It is at the
same time to be noted that the question is one of the likelihood of continuous effective service and that rejection of a
candidate need not be advised on account of the presence of a defect which in only a small proportion of cases is found
to interfere with continuous effective service.
Before filling up the form it should be ascertained from the candidate whether he has been previously pronounced unfit
for Government service by any duly constituted medical authority in India or elsewhere.
(A)
Candidate's Statement and Declaration
The candidate must make the statement required below prior to his medical examination and must sign declaration
appended thereto. His attention is specially directed to the warning contained in the note below :-
1. State your name in full (in block letters)...............
2. State your age and birth place.........
3. (a) Have you ever had small-pox, intermittent or any other fever, enlargement of supperation of glands, spitting of
blood, asthma, inflammation of lungs, hearts disease, fainting attaks, rheumatism, appendices?
or
(b)
Any other disease of accident requiring confinement to bed and medical or surgical treatment? Any permanent ill effects
or disability may be stated?
4. When were you last vaccinated?
5. Have you or any of your near relations been affected with consumption, serfula, gout, asthma, fits, epilepsy or
insanity?
6. Have you suffered from any form of nervousness due to overwork or any other cause?
7. Furnish the following particulars concerning your family : -
Father's and mother's age if living and state of health.
Father's and mother's age at death, and cause of death.
Number of brothers and sisters living, their age and state of
health.
Number of brothers and sisters dead, their age at and cause of
death.
I declare all the above answers to be the best of my belief, true and correct and I have not wilfully withheld any
information which is likely to have bearing on my appointment.
Candidate's Signature.
Note. - The candidate will be held responsible for the accuracy of the above statement. By wilfully suppressing any
information he will incur the risk of losing the appointment and, if appointed, of forfeiting all claims to Superannuation,
Allowance or Gratuity.
(B)
Report of the Medical Board on (Name of Candidate)........................
Questions.
Answers.
Remarks
1.
Has the Declaration Form been signed by the candidate.
2.
Page 11/14
----- PAGE 12 -----
The Bihar Forest Service Rules, 1953
Are there any evidences of malformation, congenital or
acquired?
3.
Is he free from scars and has he full use of all his. limbs?
4.
Is there any evidence of acute or chronic disease indicating
impairment of health?
5.
(a) Has the candidate been successfully vaccinated within the
last five years?
(b) Has he suffered from small-pox or natural immunity
against small-pox?
6.
Is the candidate free from communicable disease?
7.
Is there any evidence of disease of the nervous system?
8.
Is the hearing good? Are the ears healthy?
9.
Are the eyes healthy? Is there any defect of colour
perception? Is the field of vision defective? Does the candidate
suffer from night blindness? State the visual acuity.
10.
Is the candidate free from stammer or other serious defect of
speech?
11.
Are there any signs of the bones, joints or parts connected
therewith?
12.
Is there any important affection of the skin?
13.
Are the heart and arteries healthy? State the blood pressure.
Is there any evidence of a severe degree of hydrocele,
varicocele, varicose veins or haemorrhoids so as to make
locomotion difficult or render him incapable of carrying out his
duties properly?
Is there any evidence of disease of the respiratory organs?
Is there any evidence of disease of the digestive organs?
Are the teeth seriously decayed or otherwise defective?
Is there any evidence of Pyorrhoea?
Is the candidate free from hernia.
Is there any evidence of disease of genital organs?
Is the urine free from-(1) albumin, (2) sugar?
Is the urine otherwise normal?
(1)
(2)
Is there anything in the health of the candidate likely to
render him unfit for the efficient discharge of his duties in
the service for which he is a candidate?
Do you consider the candidate in all respect qualified for
the efficient and continuous discharge of his duties in-
Page 12/14
----- PAGE 13 -----
The Bihar Forest Service Rules, 1953
The Bihar Forest Service.
Strength of glasses.
Acuity of vision. Naked eye with glasses uncorrected.
corrected.
Sph. Cyl. Axis.
Distant Vision
R.E.
L.E.
Near vision
R.E.
L.E.
Hypermetropia
R.E.
L.E.
(Height without shoes)
Girth of chest-
1. (after full inspiration)
2. (after full expiration)
Weight
President.........
Member.............
Place..............
Date................
Appendix B
Instructions Governing Refund of Admission Examination Fees
1. Application fee will not ordinarily be refunded. If however, for any reason a candidate is unable to sit at the
examination half of examination fee may be refunded on application to the Secretary to the Commission:
Provided that the Secretary to the Commission may sanction refund of-
(i)
90 per cent of the fees paid when a candidate after paying the fees does not submit an application;
(ii)
whole of the application and/or examination fee paid, as the case may be, where an alteration is made in terms of
advertisement or the conditions of recruitment so that the candidate, who would otherwise have been eligible, becomes
ineligible due to such alteration; and
(iii)
whole of the application and/or examination fee paid as the case may be, if the vacancies advertised are decided by
Government to be abolished or kept in abeyance, before or after the candidates are interviewed.
[Appendix C]
[Substituted by S.O. 1313 dated 26.12.1989.]
Syllabus for the Bihar Forest Service Competitive Examination Question in all non-language subjects may be answered
either in English or Hindi
The following will be the subjects for examination, each subject will carry the marks shown against it:-
Subject
Marks
COMPULSORY
1.
General knowledge (including knowledge of current events)
...
150
2.
Mathematics (Matriculation)
Page 13/14
----- PAGE 14 -----
The Bihar Forest Service Rules, 1953
...
200
3.
Essay in English
...
100
4.
Viva voce(for those who qualify at the written test)
...
50
OPTIONAL
A candidate must take any 2 papers out of the following:-
5.
Botany
6.
Zoology
7.
Mathematics
8.
Chemistry
9.
Physics
10.
Geology
11.
Mechanical Engineering
The standard of the examination in these subjects will be that
of a Bachelor's degree.
...
100 each.
12.
Civil Engineering
13.
Chemical Engineering
14.
Statistics
15.
Economics
16.
Agriculture.
17.
Forestry
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 14/14