
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Bihar Digambar Jain Religious Trusts Rules, 1955
The Bihar Digambar Jain Religious Trusts Rules, 1955
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/118174589/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Bihar - Act
The Bihar Digambar Jain Religious Trusts Rules, 1955
BIHAR
India
The Bihar Digambar Jain Religious Trusts Rules, 1955
Rule THE-BIHAR-DIGAMBAR-JAIN-RELIGIOUS-TRUSTS-RULES-1955 of 1955
Published on 15 January 1955
Commenced on 15 January 1955
[This is the version of this document from 15 January 1955.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Bihar Digambar Jain Religious Trusts Rules, 1955
Published vide Notification No. 200-D dated 15th January, 1955
No. 200-D the 15th January, 1955 - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 82 of the Bihar Hindu Religious
Trusts Act, 1950 (Bihar Act I of 1951), the Governor of Bihar is pleased to make the following Rules, the same having
been previously published as required by sub-section (1) of the said Section, namely:
1.
Short title.
- These Rules, may be called "The Bihar Digambar Jain Religious Trusts Rules, 1955".
2.
These Rules shall come into force on such date as the State Government may by notification, appoint.
3.
Page 1/8
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Bihar Digambar Jain Religious Trusts Rules, 1955
In these Rules, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context-
(a)
"The Act" means the Bihar Hindu Religious Trusts Act, 1950;
(b)
"Section" means a section of the Act;
(c)
"Signature" includes thumb-mark in case of illiterate persons:
Provided that the thumb-mark is duly attested by a literate person;
(d)
"Form" means a Form appended to these Rules;
(e)
"Board" means the Bihar State Board of Digambar Jain Religious Trusts.
(f)
"President" means the President of the Bihar State Board of Digambar Jain Religious Trusts; and
(g)
"Returning Officer" includes any other officer to whom the Returning Officer has delegated in writing all or any of his
functions under these Rules.
4.
(1)
The election of members of the Bihar State Board of Digamber Jain Religious Trusts under clauses (b) and (c) of
sub-section (2) of Section 8 shall be by the method of postal voting and by means of single transferable vote.
(2)
(a)
The electoral roll in respect of the election of the members under clause (b) of sub-section (3) of Section 8 shall be
prepared in Hindi in Devanagri script by the President on the basis of the Register of trusts maintained under Section 34.
(b)
The electoral roll prepared under clause (a) shall contain the following particulars:
(i)
the name of each elector,
(ii)
the postal address of each elector,
(iii)
the name of the father or spiritual Guru of each elector, and
(iv)
the name of the religious trust of which the elector is a trustee.
(c)
The electoral roll in respect of election of the members under clause (c) of sub-section (3) of Section 8 shall be prepared
in Hindi in Devanagari script by the President. The President shall publish a notice in at least two Hindi newspapers
published in the State, specifying the date, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of publication of the
notice, within which applications shall be received for enrolment of members in the electoral roll. No fee shall be charged
for such applications and they may be presented in person to the office of the Board or sent by post.
(d)
The electoral roll shall be hung up at a conspicuous place in the office of the Board and information will be sent to the
offices of the trusts registered under Section 34.
(e)
Any objection regarding any mistake in the electoral roll may be filed in writing before the President within fifteen days of
the date on which the roll is so hung up and if no objection is filed within this period the electoral roll shall become final.
Any objection filed after this period shall be rejected.
(f)
The President shall hold a summary enquiry into the objection if any, filed under clause (c) and shall record his decision
which shall be final. The electoral roll shall, if necessary be amended in accordance with the decision of the President
Page 2/8
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Bihar Digambar Jain Religious Trusts Rules, 1955
and the roll shall thereafter become final.
(g)
The President shall, as soon as may be send at least two copies of the final electoral roll to the Returning Officer.
5.
The following procedure shall be followed in respect of election of members under Rule 4 (1), namely:
(a)
The Returning Officer for the purpose of conducting election under Rule 4(1) shall be the President.
(b)
The Returning Officer shall appoint-
(i)
the last date for making nominations, which shall be a date not later than the tenth day nor earlier than the seventh day
of the date on which the order appointing such last date is published in the office of the Returning Officer;
(ii)
the date for the scrutiny of nominations, which shall be a date not later than the fifth day after the last date for making
nominations;
(iii)
the last date for the withdrawal of candidatures, which shall be the seventh day after the date for the scrutiny of
nominations;
(iv)
the date or dates on which a poll shall, if necessary, be taken which or the first of which shall be a date not earlier than
the thirtieth day after the last date for the withdrawal of candidatures; and
(v)
a further date for counting of votes which shall not be later than the seventh day after the date or the last date on which
the poll is taken:
Provided that, if for some reasons, the counting of votes is not completed on the date so fixed, the counting shall be
continued on the following date or dates, as the case may be, till it is completed.
(c)
The dates appointed under clause (b) shall be published in the office of the Returning Officer, in the office of the Board
and in at least one issue of one English and one Hindi Daily having circulation in the State and information will be sent
about this to the offices of the Trust, registered under Section 34.
(d)
(i)
On or before the date appointed under clause (b) (i) for making nomination, each candidate shall, either in person or by
his proposer or seconder, between the hours of eleven o'clock in the forenoon and the three o'clock in the afternoon
deliver to the Returning Officer in his office a nomination paper completed in Form III subscribed by the candidate
himself as assenting to the nomination and by two persons referred to in sub-clause (ii) as proposer and seconder.
(ii)
Any person whose name is registered in the electoral roll of the constituency may subscribe as proposer or seconder of
a nomination paper.
(iii)
Every nomination paper shall be accompanied by a declaration in writing subscribed by the candidate himself that he is
willing to serve on the Board if elected and that he is a Hindu, and no candidate shall be deemed to be duly nominated
unless such declaration is delivered along with the nomination paper.
(iv)
Any nomination paper received after 3 o'clock in the afternoon on the date appointed for the nomination of candidates
shall be rejected.
(v)
The Returning Officer on receiving a paper under clause (d) (i) shall inform the person delivering the same of the date,
hour and place appointed for scrutiny of nominations and shall as soon as may be thereafter cause to be affixed in some
conspicuous place in his office a notice of the nomination paper, both of the candidate and of the persons who have
subscribed the nomination paper as proposer and seconder.
Page 3/8
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Bihar Digambar Jain Religious Trusts Rules, 1955
(vi)
Any candidate may withdraw his candidature by notice in writing subscribed by him delivered to the Returning Officer
before three o'clock in the afternoon on the date appointed for the withdrawal of candidature. A candidate who has so
withdrawn his candidature shall not be allowed to cancel the withdrawal or to be nominated as a candidate for the same
election.
(vii)
The returning officer on receiving a notice of withdrawal under clause (d) (vi) shall, as soon as may, be cause a notice of
withdrawal to be affixed in some conspicuous place in his office.
(viii)
At the time and place fixed by the Returning Officer for scrutiny of nominations, the candidates and one proposer and
one seconder of each candidate, and no other person, may attend and the Returning Officer shall give them all
reasonable facilities for examining the nomination papers of all candidates which may have been delivered within the
time and in the manner laid down in these Rules.
The Returning Officer shall then examine the nomination papers and shall decide all objections which may be made to
any nomination and may either on such objection or on his own motion, after such summary enquiry, if any, as he thinks
necessary, refuse any nomination paper which involves infringement of any provision of these Rules. The Returning
Officer shall endorse on, each nomination paper his decision accepting or rejecting the same and such decision shall be
final.
(ix)
On completion of scrutiny of nominations and after the expiry of the period within which candidatures may be withdrawn,
the Returning Officer shall forthwith prepare list of duly nominated candidates in Hindi in Devanagri script arranged in
alphabetical order and cause it to be affixed in some conspicuous place in his office.
(x)
If there are only as many validly nominated candidates, who have not withdrawn their candidatures, as have to be
elected they shall be declared to have been elected.
(xi)
If the number of validly nominated candidates is more than the number to be elected, a poll shall be taken.
(e)
[ Not less than fifteen days before the date appointed for the poll, the Returning Officer shall send by registered post or
by special messenger duly authorised by the President or Special Officer of the Board, as the case may be, a ballot
paper in Form IV to each elector.]
[Substituted by Notification No. 2940 dated 29.5.1990.]
(f)
(i)
After recording his vote, elector shall send the ballot paper by registered post to the Returning Officer so as to reach him
not later than five o'clock in the afternoon of the date appointed for the Poll. Ballot papers received after that hour shall
be rejected:
Provided that the elector may, at his own option instead of sending the ballot paper by post deliver it to the Returning
Officer in person up to the aforesaid time.
(ii)
No election shall be invalidated by reason that the ballot paper duly sent to an elector under these Rules has not been
received by him.
(g)
Votes shall be counted by or under the supervision of the Returning Officer, and each candidate or one representative of
each candidate authorised in writing by the candidate shall have a right to be present at the time of counting.
(h)
(i)
The candidate receiving the highest number of votes [calculated according to the single transferable voting system] shall
be declared to have been duly elected.
(ii)
When an equality of votes is found to exist between any of the candidates and the addition of one vote will entitle any of
Page 4/8
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Bihar Digambar Jain Religious Trusts Rules, 1955
the candidates to be declared elected, the determination of the person to whom such one additional vote shall be
deemed to have been given shall be made by lot to be drawn in the presence of the Returning Officer in such manner as
he may determine.
(iii)
The Returning Officer shall report the name of the elected candidates to the State Government for publication in the
Bihar Gazette, as soon as the result of the election is declared.
(i)
An election petition against any candidate declared elected under the preceding clause may be presented to the
Returning Officer by any candidate or elector within fourteen days from the date on which the result of the election was
declared. A petition presented after the expiry of the said period shall be rejected.
(j)
If the petition is not rejected under clause (i), an enquiry shall be held in respect of the petition by an authority specially
appointed for the purpose by the State Government.
(k)
The election of the returned candidate shall be void if the election has been procured or induced or the result of the
election has been materially affected by a corrupt practice, or the result of the election has been materially affected by
the improper acceptance or refusal of any nomination or by the improper reception or refusal of a vote, or the reception
of any vote which is void or by any non-compliance with provisions of the Act or Rules made thereunder.
(l)
For the purpose of these Rules, the expression "corrupt practice" shall have the same meaning as it has in connection
with the election of State Legislature.
(m)
The authority appointed under clause (j) shall decide the election petition and his decision shall be final.
6.
(1)
The members of the Board or a Committee may undertake journeys only for performing specific duties assigned to them
by the President or by a regular resolution of the Board or the Committee, as the case may be.
(2)
The President and the members of the Board or a Committee will, for the purpose of travelling and other allowances, be
deemed to be officers of second grade within the meaning of the relevant provisions of the Bihar Travelling Allowance
Rules.
(3)
The President and the members of the Board or a Committee if in station at the time of a meeting and not coming from
outside will not be entitled to travelling allowance but will be entitled to draw a conveyance allowances of Rs. 2 per
meeting.
7.
The record referred to in clause (a) of sub-section (2) of Section 28 shall be prepared and maintained in the manner set
forth in Form I.
8.
The cost referred to in clause (r) of sub-section (2) of Section 28 shall be recoverable by the Board as arrear of land
revenue. The requisition for recovery of such dues shall be issued over the signature of the President.
9.
Every notice under sub-section (1) of Section 30 shall be issued by registered post with acknowledgement due or
delivered by hand against a written receipt duly signed by the addressee. In case of refusal by the addressee to grant
such receipt, the notice will be hung up in a conspicuous place of the residence of the addressee in presence of two
witnesses.
10.
Any application filed under sub-section (1) of Section 43 shall be duly signed and verified and shall contain details of the
property concerned sufficient to identify it. The form of such verification shall be the same as laid down in the Code of
Civil Procedure, 1908 for verifying a plaint.
11.
Page 5/8
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Bihar Digambar Jain Religious Trusts Rules, 1955
The general notice under sub-section (2) of Section 43 shall be published in at least one issue of an English and a Hindi
newspaper printed and published in the State of Bihar or having its circulation in the State. If the District Judge thinks
desirable he may order its publication in other newspapers having circulation in Bihar also. The notice shall also be
published on the notice board of District Judge concerned.
12.
Application for transfer under sub-section (1) of Section 44 shall be made in Form II.
13.
The statement referred to in sub-sections (1) and (2) of Section 59 shall be furnished in Form I and the particulars to be
contained therein shall be those indicated in each item of this form.
14.
The authority to whom a trustee may appeal under sub-section (1) of Section 65 shall be the District Judge of the district
in which the whole or any part of the subject matter of the religious trust concerned is situated.
15.
Fees under clause (a) of sub-section (2) of Section 70 shall be assessed by the President in a manner he deems best in
the circumstances:
Provided that the President shall afford an opportunity to the assessee for representing his case before him either
personally or through an agent duly authorised in writing in this behalf and shall look in to documentary evidence, if any,
produced by or on behalf of the assessee in this connection.
16.
An appeal under clause (b) of sub-section (2) of Section 70 from an order of assessment shall lie to the District Judge of
the district in which the whole or any part of the subject matter of the religious trust concerned is situated.
17.
The Board shall open an account in the Government Treasury or the State Bank of India in the name of President and
the fees payable under subsection (3) of Section 70 shall be paid in that account by means of a challan or by remittance
by postal money order addressed to the Treasury Officer in case the amount is opened in the Government Treasury or
shall be deposited with the President or paid by remittance by postal money order addressed to the President in case
the account is opened in the State Bank of India.
Form I
(Vide Rules 7 and 13)
1. Serial No.
2. Name of the Trust.
3. Name of the Village RO. RS., sub-division and district in which it is situated (also the nearest Railway Station.)
4. Names of minor Maths or temples appurtenant to the main Math or temple and their situation.
5. Names of Trustees and Managers with their addresses, date of appointment and termination of office.
6. Particulars as to whether the institution is administered under a scheme settled by the court or by Trustees without
any such control and particulars as to any provision in any document or custom, if any, regarding succession to the
office of the Trustees or Managers.
7. Particulars of document about the origin or creation of Trust.
8. Name of Founder or Donor, if known.
9. Object of the Trust.
10. Details of properties both movable and immovable held by the Trust.
11. Details of properties both movable and immovable sold, transferred or settled during the last financial year.
12. Annual income. (This should be of the preceding financial year and should be shown as below:
(a)
Income from all sources; and
(b)
Net income after deducting the amount payable as revenue, rent, taxes, local and other cesses and cost of management
at 12 ½ percent.
13. Annual Expenditure.
(a)
On remuneration to Trustees and Managers.
Page 6/8
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Bihar Digambar Jain Religious Trusts Rules, 1955
(b)
On establishment and staff.
(c)
On religious objects.
(d)
On charitable objects.
(e)
On miscellaneous items.
14. Particulars as to important customs and usages followed.
15. Particulars of encumbrances on the Trust Properties.
16. Any other information of importance.
17. Remarks.
Form II
(Vide Rule 12)
To,
The President
Digmbar Jain Board of Religious Trusts.
Sir,
In pursuance of the provision of sub-section (1) of Section 44 of the Bihar Hindu Religious Trusts Act, 1950, I hereby
apply for permission to transfer the immovable property herein described in the manner indicated:
Extract from the trust deed
...........................
Property to be transferred
...........................
Particulars of transfer
...........................
Conditions and terms of transfer
...........................
Date.....................
Signature of the Trustee
Form III
(Vide Rule 5)
1.
Name of the candidate.
.............................
2.
Father's Name.
.............................
3.
Age.
.............................
4.
Name of the proposer
.............................(1)
5.
Signature of the proposer
.............................(1)
6.
Name of the seconder
.............................(1)
7.
Page 7/8
----- PAGE 8 -----
The Bihar Digambar Jain Religious Trusts Rules, 1955
Signature of the seconder
.............................(1)
Declaration by the Candidate
I, hereby declare that I agree to this nomination and that I am a..................... Hindu and eligible for election.
Signature of Candidate
Certificate of Delivery
This nomination paper was delivered to me at my office at..........................a.m./p.m. on the.....................200
....................
Returning Officer
Certificate of Scrutiny
I have scrutinised the eligibility of the candidate, the proposer and the seconder and find that they are, respectively,
qualified to stand for election and to propose and second the nomination.
Returning Officer
Form IV
(Vide Rule 5)
Serial no..........
Elector's name...........
I..................(name in full) declare that I am member of the and that I wish to vote for the candidates in order of
preference indicated against each.
Signature or thumb impression of Elector.
Name of candidates
Address-
Order of preference*
1.2.3.4.5.
* The elector will put (1) against the person to whom he wants to give first preference (2) against the person to whom he
wants to give second preference and (3) against the person to whom he wants to give third preference and so on.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 8/8