
----- PAGE 1 -----
Bihar Fire Service Rules, 1955
Bihar Fire Service Rules, 1955
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/30745035/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Bihar - Act
Bihar Fire Service Rules, 1955
BIHAR
India
Bihar Fire Service Rules, 1955
Rule BIHAR-FIRE-SERVICE-RULES-1955 of 1955
Published on 19 July 1955
Commenced on 19 July 1955
[This is the version of this document from 19 July 1955.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Bihar Fire Service Rules, 1955
Published vide Notification No. 247-PPh. dated 19th July, 1955
No. 247-PPh. 19th July, 1955. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 25 of the Bihar Fire Service Act, 1948
(Bihar Act XXXVII of 1948), read with the proviso to Article 303 of the Constitution of India, the Governor of Bihar is
pleased to make the following rules, namely:-
1.
These Rules may be called the Bihar Fire Service Rules, 1955.
2.
Definition.
(a)
"The Act" means the Bihar Fire Service Act 1948;
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Bihar Fire Service Rules, 1955
(b)
"Service" means the Bihar Fire Service constituted under Section 3; and
(c)
"Section means a section of the Act.
3.
The Service shall consist of the following officers and men,
(i)
a State Fire Officer.
(ii)
Officers-in-Charge of fire-stations to be designated as Fire Station Officers;
(iii)
Leading Firemen;
(iv)
Drivers &
(v)
Firemen.
4.
The officers and men of the Service noted below shall have rank corresponding respectively to the rank of the officers
and men of the State Police Force specified against each :-
(i)
State Fire Officer -
Deputy Superintendent of Police.
(ii)
Fire Station Officer -
Sub-Inspector of Police.
(iii)
Leading Firemen -
Havildar of the district Police Force.
(iv)
Firemen -
Constable of the district Police Force.
(v)
Driver -
Constable of the district Police Force.
5.
The Officers and men of the Service shall be entitled to the same pay and allowance, including uniform allowance, as
are admissible to officers and men of the corresponding rank in the State Police Force.
6.
The Leading Firemen, the Firemen and the Drivers shall be entitled to a special pay at the rate of Rs. 3/- a month. The
Drivers shall also be entitled to a special pay at the rate of Rs. 15/- a month for driving vehicles.
Notwithstanding the fact that the leading firemen are not entitled to the driving allowance, they must know driving and it
shall be a part of their duty to drive vehicles and operate pumps in times of emergency.
7.
All members of the service including the State Fire Officers shall be entitled to rent free quarters, and in the cases of
non-availability of quarters, to house rent allowance in lieu thereof at the rates admissible to officers and men of the
corresponding rank in the State Police Force.
8.
The number of different classes of officers and men of the Service shall be as specified below:-
State Fire Officer
-
1
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Bihar Fire Service Rules, 1955
Fire Station Officer
-
5
Leading Firemen
-
16
Drivers
-
16
Firemen
-
16
Provided that the number of officers and men may be varied from time to time, by the State Government.
9.
The educational and other qualifications for recruitment of persons appointed to the different ranks of the Service shall
be the same as those for recruitment of persons to the corresponding ranks in the Bihar Police Force as specified in
Rule 4:
"Provided that a person who has passed the Secondary School Examination or any examination equivalent thereto,
shall be eligible for recruitment to the post of a Fire Station Officer.
10.
Appointment to the service of members up to the rank of Fire-Station Officers shall be made, and their promotions up to
the rank, and the penalties to be imposed upon them shall be regulated, in accordance with the rules framed under
Section 22 by the Inspector-General of Police, Bihar.
11.
The provisions of the Bihar Police Manual, the Bihar Service Code, the Bihar Travelling Allowance Rules or any Pension
Rules, the Government Service Conduct Rules or any other Rules or orders made or issued, from time to time by the
State Government regarding conditions of service of the servants of the State Government shall mutatis mutandis apply
to the members of the service in respect of those matters which are not covered by these Rules or the Rules made by
the Inspector-General of Police under Section 22.
12.
The notice required to be given under Section 14 to the owner or occupier of any building or other property shall be in
the form annexed hereto and shall be served on such owner or occupier at least seventy two hours before City
Superintendent of Police, the District Superintendent of Police or the Officer-in-Charge of a station, as the case may be,
enters into or upon such buildings or property.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3