
----- PAGE 1 -----
Srimati Radhika Sinha Institute and Sachidanand Sinha Library (Requisition and Management)...
Srimati Radhika Sinha Institute and Sachidanand Sinha Library
(Requisition and Management) Act, 2015
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/147244496/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Bihar - Act
Srimati Radhika Sinha Institute and Sachidanand Sinha Library (Requisition and Management) Act, 2015
BIHAR
India
Srimati Radhika Sinha Institute and Sachidanand Sinha Library (Requisition and Management) Act, 2015
Act 8 of 2015
Published on 24 November 1955
Commenced on 24 November 1955
[This is the version of this document from 24 November 1955.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Srimati Radhika Sinha Institute and Sachidanand Sinha Library (Requisition and Management) Act, 2015
(Bihar Act
8 of 2015
)
Last Updated 8th February, 2020
Preamble. - An Act to provide provisions for requisition, transfer and better management and development of Srimati
Radhika Sinha Institute And Sachidanand Sinha Library,Patna and for matters connected and incidental there to .
Be it enacted by the legislature of the State of Bihar in the sixty sixth year of the Republic of India as follows :-
1.
Page 1/5
----- PAGE 2 -----
Srimati Radhika Sinha Institute and Sachidanand Sinha Library (Requisition and Management)...
Short title, extent and commencement.
(1)
This Act may be called Srimati Radhika Sinha Institute And Sachidanand Sinha Library (Requisition And Management)
Act, 2015.
(2)
It Shall Extend To The Srimati Radhika Sinha Institute And Sachidanand Sinha Library, Patna.
(3)
It shall come into force with effect from the date of its publication in the official Gazette.
2.
Definition.
- In this Act unless the context otherwise requires :-
(a)
"Occupier" in relation to Srimati Radhika Sinha Institute And Sachidanand Sinha Library,Patna, means the person, trust,
who immediately, before the appointed day, had the overall control over the management and administrations of the
scheduled Institution,
(b)
"Schedule Institution" means, Srimati Radhika Sinha Institute And Sachidanand Sinha Library,Patna ( Bihar State
Central Library,Patna ) situated at Sinha Library Road, Post Office G.P.O Patna, Police Station Kotwali, District Patna,
and it includes the following :-
(i)
All movable, and immovable property in which land, building the foundation, superstructure and roofing thereof are
included furniture, books, magazines and other fixtures pertaining to scheduled institution,
(ii)
All available cash and bank deposits, Term deposits amounts, reserve fund, and other deposit amount etc of the
scheduled institution,
(iii)
All land and building including staff quarters held or authorised by the Trust for the purpose of Scheduled institution,
(iv)
All books of Accounts, registers, and other document related to the Scheduled institution or to any property or assets
here in before specified;
(c)
"Deed of Agreement" means, the agreement between the trustees of the scheduled institution and the Government of
Bihar executed on 24th November 1955;
(d)
"Employees" means of the scheduled institution such person whose names are on pay roll of scheduled institution,
(e)
"Director" means the Director, Library and Information Centre,Bihar, Patna,
(f)
" Trust" means , the deed of Trust of Srimati Radhika Sinha Institute And Sachchidanand Sinha Library Patna, executed
on 10th march 1926; byshri Sachchidanand Sinha, son of Bakshi Ramyad sinha,
(g)
"Appointed day" means the Date of commencement of this Act,
(h)
"Lease" means lease of Deed for land of 2.28.acres (approx) of land made on the fifth day of August,1926 between the
Collector of Patna and Mr. Sachchidanand Sinha in which the Building , staff quarters and vacant land within the
compound walls of the scheduled institution are situated,
(i)
"Prescribed" means prescribed by this Act or Rules made under this Act,
(j)
"Prescribed Rule" means the Rules made under section 11 of this Act,
(k)
Page 2/5
----- PAGE 3 -----
Srimati Radhika Sinha Institute and Sachidanand Sinha Library (Requisition and Management)...
"Chairman, Bihar State Public Library and Information Centre Authority" Bihar, Patna means, The chairman of the
authority constituted under the provisions of the Bihar State Public Library and Information Centre Act 2008 as amended
from time to time by the State Government.
(l)
" Authority" means The authority constituted under the provisions of the Bihar State Public Library and Information
Centre, Act 2008;
(m)
"The Government " means the State Government of Bihar.
3.
Vesting on the appointed day.
(1)
The right title and interest of scheduled institution, Srimati Radhika Sinha Institute And Sachidanand Sinha
Library,Patna, shall stand transferred to and vest in the State Government from the commencement of this Act.
(2)
All such assets, rights, leaseholds, powers, authorities and privileges and all property, movable, immovable including
land, building, stores, machines, equipments, furniture, cash balance, cash in hand, reserve funds, investments, and
book debts and all the right and interest in, or arising out of such property and all account Books, register and other
documents related there to which were, immediately before the appointed day, in the ownership, possession, power and
control of the scheduled institution whether within or outside India and other documents or whatever a nature relating
thereto shall be deemed to be included in the scheduled Institution.
(3)
Not withstanding anything contained in subsection (1) of this section the State Government will not be required to pay
any amount for the satisfaction of any debt, mortgage charge or other encumbrances or lien, trust or other obligations
attached to the Scheduled institution on the appointed day.
4.
Certain consequences on vesting.
- Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in-force and except as otherwise provided in
this Acton and from the appointed day.
(1)
No proceeding for the winding up or liquidation of the scheduled institution shall be, or continue, in any Court.
(2)
The Deed of trust, Deed of Agreement and Deed of lease of the land and all committees and sub committees related to
the scheduled institution shall be deemed to be replaced and dissolved from the date of the commencement of this Act.
(3)
All The officers and employees of the scheduled institution holding different posts shall be treated transferred to the
State Government and they will become the officers and employees of the State Government, with the designations as
determined their designation, tenure, remuneration, and condition of services will be the same, which were at time of
vesting of the scheduled institution, in the State Government until the State Government may not change their tenure,
remuneration, and condition of services. The State Government shall make enquiry by Education Department or Bihar
State Public Library and Information Centre Authority with respect to validity of appointment of every officer or employee
holding posts and based upon facts and recommendation of enquiry will take appropriate action.
5.
Duty related to deliver possession.
(1)
After vesting the scheduled institution in the State of Bihar under section 3, every person, in whose possession or
custody or under whose control any property or assets, books of account , registers or other document related to the
Scheduled institution are, shall forthwith deliver the same to the Bihar State Public Library and Information centre.
Authority or the person/officer authorized by the authority.
(2)
The Director may take all necessary steps for taking in his possession of any such Property, assets, books of account ,
registers or documents, and any use of cause to be used such force as may be necessary.
Page 3/5
----- PAGE 4 -----
Srimati Radhika Sinha Institute and Sachidanand Sinha Library (Requisition and Management)...
(3)
Delivery of possession to the Bihar State Public Library and Information centre. Authority, shall be equivalent to delivery
of possession to the State Government.
(4)
Without prejudice to the provisions of the foregoing sub-section, Any person referred to in sub-section (1) shall be liable
to deliver the account to the Bihar State Public Library and Information centre. Authority, for any such property or assets,
books of accounts , registers or documents which he has not delivered to the Authority.
6.
Duty relating to furnish particulars.
- The occupier of the scheduled institution shall, soon from the appointed day, furnish to such officer as specified by the
authority complete details of expenditure on all liabilities and obligations on the security of the scheduled institution and
subsisting on the appointed day, and also of all agreements and other instrument pertaining to the schedule institution
including agreements, decrees, awards, standing order and other terms of service of any person employed in the
institution .
7.
Amount to be paid for acquisition.
- If any question arises for the payment of compensation for the acquisition of the scheduled institution, and its right, title,
and interest, The State Government may pay only maximum one rupee after examining the claims;
Provided that the State Government shall have right to recover, after making audit of the financial position of the
scheduled institution, in a proper manner from the Honorary Secretary, any officer, employee etc. of the scheduled
institution, who may be found to have misappropriated any sum as revealed by such audit.
8.
Functions, Power, and Procedure.
(1)
For the due functioning of the Scheduled Institution, The authority may appoint an officer, or authorize an officer with the
approval of the State Government , to control and perform all the function related to Scheduled Institution.
(2)
The Authority may make such statutes for the smooth and better work performance of the Scheduled Institution, which
may be in the interest of public and the state.
(3)
The Authority shall have the same powers of Civil Court, which any civil court has while trying to suit or executing a
decree under the code of Civil Procedure, 1908 Act (5 of 1908) in respect of the following matters:-
(a)
Summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person and examining on oath;
(b)
Receiving evidence on affidavit;
(c)
Executing or to make execute any order made by it;
(d)
Such other matters, if any as may be prescribed.
(4)
The Authority shall have power to regulate its own procedure, and to review any of its decision in case of prima facie
mistake in the record or to rectify also the arithmetical or clerical error therein.
(5)
If for any reason any post (other than absence) falls vacant in the Scheduled Institution, the Authority, with the approval
of Government may make appointment of the employee so that work of the Scheduled Institution may be duly
performed.
9.
Bar of Jurisdiction.
- Every decision of the Authority will be final and shall not be called in question in any court.
10.
Page 4/5
----- PAGE 5 -----
Srimati Radhika Sinha Institute and Sachidanand Sinha Library (Requisition and Management)...
Penalties.
(1)
Any Person who :-
(a)
Any property asset, book of account, register or other document, forming part of or relating to the Scheduled Institution
withhold Which are in his possession, custody or control from Submitting to the prescribed authority in contravention of
section 5;or
(b)
wrongfully obtains possession of any such property asset, book of account, register or other documents; or
(c)
Conceals, destroys, or delete any book of account, register or other documents with interest to evade the provisions of
section 5; or
(d)
will fully close not furnish any detail as required by section 5; or
(e)
furnishes such details in compliance with the requirement of section 6, which is false and, which he either knows or has
reason to believe to be false, or does not believe to be true;
shall be punishable with imprisonment up to three years or with a fine or both;
(2)
No Court shall take cognizance of an offence punishable under this section except with the previous sanction of the
State Government .
11.
Power to make rules.
(1)
The State Government may by notification in the official gazette, make rules to carry out of the provisions’ of this Act.
(2)
All rules made under this Act shall as soon as may be after they are made, be laid before each House of the State
Legislature. While it is in session, of a total period of not less than fourteen days, extending to one session or more than
one successive sessions and shall, unless some later date is appointed, take effect from the date of their publication in
the official gazette, subject to such modification or annulment as the two Houses of the legislature may, during the said
period, agree to make so However, any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity to
anything previously done or any action previously taken there under.
(3)
If any difficulty arises in to giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the State Government may by order, which is not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, remove the difficulty;
Provided that no such order shall be made after the expiry of a period of two years from the Appointed day.
12.
Protection of Action taken in good faith.
- No suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall be initiated against the State Government, the Authority or
Scheduled Institution or any person authorized by them for performing any function under this Act or for anything , which
is done or intended to be done in good faith under this Act or any rule or order made there under.
13.
Repeal and Saving.
(1)
All the Acts, Rules, Regulations and Orders related to the scheduled Institution are here by repealed.
(2)
Not withstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken under the said Acts, Rules, Regulations, and orders
shall be done or taken under this Act as if its was come in to force on the day on which such thing was done or such
action was taken.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 5/5