
----- PAGE 1 -----
Bihar Boiler Operation Engineer's Rules, 1960
Bihar Boiler Operation Engineer's Rules, 1960
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/114407747/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Bihar - Act
Bihar Boiler Operation Engineer's Rules, 1960
BIHAR
India
Bihar Boiler Operation Engineer's Rules, 1960
Rule BIHAR-BOILER-OPERATION-ENGINEER-S-RULES-1960 of 1960
Published on 22 August 1960
Commenced on 22 August 1960
[This is the version of this document from 22 August 1960.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Bihar Boiler Operation Engineer's Rules, 1960
Published vide Notification No. 2/B1-105/60/6126, dated 22nd August, 1960
No. II/B1-105/60-6126. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 29 of the Indian Boilers Act, 1923 (Act V of
1923), the Governor of Bihar is pleased to make the following Rules, the same having been previously published as
required by sub-section (1) of Section 31 of the said Act:-
Part I ? Preliminary
1.
Short title.
- These rules may be called the Bihar Boiler Operation Engineer's Rules, 1960.
2.
Definitions.
Page 1/13
----- PAGE 2 -----
Bihar Boiler Operation Engineer's Rules, 1960
-  In these Rules, unless the context otherwise requires-
(a)
"the Act" means the Indian Boilers Act, 1923 (5 of 1923);
(b)
"Board" means the Board of Examiners constituted under Rule 9;
(c)
"Boiler Attendant" means a person holding a certificate of competency as an attendant under the Bihar Boiler Attendants
Rules, 1948;
(d)
"Boiler Operation Engineer" means a person granted a certificate of proficiency as a Boiler Operation Engineer under
these Rules;
(e)
"Chairman" means the Chairman of the Board;
(f)
"Form" means a form appended to these Rules;
(g)
"Secretary" means the Secretary of the Board;
(h)
"Section" means a section of the Act;
(i)
Any reference in these Rules to a boiler or boilers shall be deemed to include also a reference to an economiser or
economisers, respectively.
Part II ? General
3.
Boiler to be in charge of a person holding a Boiler Operation Engineer's Certificate.
- The owner of a single boiler or two or more boilers connected in a battery or of so many separate individual boilers
situated within a radius of 150 feet having a total heating surface exceeding 7,500 square feet in any of the cases shall
not use the same or permit the same to be used unless the boiler or boilers are placed in direct charge of a competent
person specified in Rule 4 in addition to such number of Boiler Attendants as may be specified by the Chief Inspector of
Boilers:
Provided that the Chief Inspector of Boilers may permit any boiler to remain in charge of a Boiler Attendant for a
maximum period of three months, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in these Rules:
Provided further that nothing in these Rules shall debar a person holding a first class certificate of competency granted
under the Bihar Boiler Attendant's Rules, 1948 from remaining in attendance or in charge of a boiler or boilers of any
size if duly permitted by the Chief Inspector of Boilers and any such certificate shall for the purpose of these Rules be
deemed to have been granted under these Rules.
4.
Competent person shall possess certificate and extent of qualification.
- No person who does not possess a certificate of proficiency as a Boiler Operation Engineer under these Rules shall be
deemed a fit and proper person to hold charge of a boiler or boilers exceeding the limits laid down in Rule 3.
5.
Production of certificate.
- Boiler Operation Engineer holding a certificate of proficiency under these Rules shall, at all reasonable times during the
period any boiler is in his charge or attendance, be bound to produce such certificate when called upon to do so by any
of the persons empowered under Section 15 to call for the production of a certificate or a provisional order granted
under the Act.
6.
Owner to furnish Chief Inspector with particulars of certificates.
(1)
The owner of a boiler who engages any person to be in charge thereof shall, within seven days of such engagement,
furnish the Chief Inspector with full particulars of such person including the serial number, date and place of issue of his
Page 2/13
----- PAGE 3 -----
Bihar Boiler Operation Engineer's Rules, 1960
certificate.
(2)
The owner of a boiler who engages any person to hold charge of such boiler shall, in the event of such person leaving
his employment or in the event of death of such person, report the fact within seven days of such event to the Chief
Inspector.
7.
Limits of daily period of attendance, relief and sphere of action.
(1)
A person in charge of a boiler shall be deemed to be in direct and immediate charge of the same when he is within 150
feet of such a boiler.
(2)
A person in charge of a boiler or boilers for which a certificate of proficiency is required under these Rules may be
relieved of charge in any one day for not more than two periods which when combined do not exceed two hours in
duration by a person holding a first class certificate of competency as an attendant under Bihar Boiler Attendants Rules,
1948.
(3)
The holder of a first class certificate of competency as an attendant may also, with the consent in writing of the Chief
Inspector, relieve a person holding a certificate of proficiency as an Operation Engineer for a period which may extend to
ten consecutive days which in special circumstances the Chief Inspector may extend to any length of time not exceeding
thirty days at a time.
8.
When boiler deemed to be in use.
(1)
A boiler shall be deemed to be in use for the purpose of these Rules when there is active fire in the furnance, firebox or
fireplace for the purpose of heating the water in the boiler. A boiler shall be deemed to be not in use only when the fire is
removed or effectively banked and all steam and water connections are closed.
(2)
An economiser shall be deemed to be in use for the purpose of these Rules when there is a flow of flue gases past the
economiser and an appreciable heat transfer between the water and the heating gases.
Part III ? Board of Examiners
9.
Constitution of the Board of Examiners.
(1)
A Board of Examiners shall be constituted for the State of Bihar consisting of the Chief Inspector, an Inspector
nominated by the Chief Inspector, and not less than three other members having theoretical and practical knowledge of
prime-movers and modern boiler practice to be appointed by the State Government from time to time.
(2)
The Chief Inspector shall be the ex-officio Chairman and the Inspector nominated by the Chief Inspector shall be the
Secretary to the Board.
10.
Term of office of the members.
- The term of office of each of the members, other than the ex-officio members of the Board shall be the members, other
than the ex-officio members of the Board shall be three years. If a member leaves the State permanently or absents
himself from three-consecutive meetings without the permission of the Board, he shall be deemed to have vacated his
seat on the Board and another person may be appointed in his place for the unexpired portion of his term.
11.
Function of the Board.
- The Board of Examiners shall-
(i)
conduct examinations of candidates for the grant of certificates of proficiency as a Boiler Operation Engineer;
(ii)
Page 3/13
----- PAGE 4 -----
Bihar Boiler Operation Engineer's Rules, 1960
have powers to appoint any person as a paper-setter and examiner, at any examination;
(iii)
grant certificate of proficiency as a Boiler Operation Engineer; and
(iv)
consider the reports of enquiries into allegations of drunkenness, negligence of duty, misconduct on the part of Boiler
Operation Engineers.
12.
Meeting of the Board.
- The Board shall meet as often as may, in the opinion of the Chairman, be necessary and at such place and time as
may be appointed by the Chairman.
13.
Notice of meeting and list of business.
(1)
Notice of not less than 15 days from the date of posting shall be given of the time and place fixed for each meeting of
the Board to every member of the Board, and with such notice shall be attached the list of business to be discussed at
the meeting:
Provided that if the Chairman calls any meeting for considering any matter which in his opinion is urgent, a notice giving
such reasonable time as he may consider necessary, shall be deemed sufficient.
(2)
Any business which is not on the list shall not be considered at the meeting except with the permission of the Chairman.
14.
Quorum.
- The Chairman or the Secretary and two members of the Board of Examiners shall form a quorum.
15.
Chairman to preside at meeting of the Board.
- The Chairman shall preside over all meetings of the Board and in his absence, member chosen by the members
present at the meeting shall preside over the meeting.
16.
Function of Secretary of the Board.
- The Secretary shall maintain a register of Boiler Operation Engineers and shall perform such other functions as are
specified in these Rules or as the Chairman may direct from time to time.
17.
Board's endorsement on application.
- The Board shall endorse on the printed application form of each candidate the result of his examination for a certificate
of proficiency as a Boiler Operation Engineer.
The endorsed application shall be returned to the Secretary.
18.
Board's power to refuse issue of certificate.
- The Board may direct any candidate who, in the opinion of the majority of the members, appears too old or physically
unfit through deformity, constitutional weakness, defective eyesight, deafness or loss of a limb to perform efficiently the
duties of a Boiler Operation Engineer to produce a certificate of fitness from a registered medical practitioner. If,
however, the candidate fails to produce a certificate of physical fitness, the Board shall have power to refuse the issue of
a certificate of proficiency as a Boiler Operation Engineer.
19.
Examiner's fees.
- Each member of the Board of Examiners and any other Examiner appointed under Rule 11 shall be entitled to receive
fees for examining candidates under these rules and the rate of fees shall be as follows :-
(1)
Paper Setting fee per subject - Rs. 30.
(2)
Paper examining fee per paper per candidate - Rs. 0-12-0 or 0.75NP.
Page 4/13
----- PAGE 5 -----
Bihar Boiler Operation Engineer's Rules, 1960
(3)
Viva-voce test at the rate of Rs. 30 per member per day.
20.
Validation of acts or proceedings of the Board.
- No act or proceeding of the Board shall be questioned on the ground merely of the existence of any vacancy in or any
defect in the constitution of the Board.
Part IV ? Examination
21.
Examination.
- Examination for the grant of certificate of proficiency as a Boiler Operation Engineer shall be held by the Board at such
place and on such dates as may be notified by the Secretary from time to time in the Official Gazette.
22.
Postponement of Examination.
- When a date fixed for the examination is declared to be a gazetted holiday or when for any unforeseen reason an
examination cannot be held on the date fixed, the Secretary may fix some other date for holding the examination and the
same shall be duly notified to the candidates for examination.
Part V ? Certificate
23.
Capabilities of holders of certificates.
- The certificate of proficiency as a Boiler Operation Engineer shall qualify the holders thereof to be incharge of a boiler
or boilers of any type and size provided that the boilers are so situated that no one of them is distant more than 150 feet
from any other of them.
The holder of a certificate of proficiency as Boiler Operation Engineer shall for all intents and purposes be deemed to
have fulfilled the requirements of the Bihar Boiler Attendants' Rules, 1948.
24.
Endorsement on a certificate.
- A person holding a certificate of proficiency as a Boiler Operation Engineer granted by a Board of Examiners under the
corresponding Rules in any other State shall, on application, have the certificate endorsed for validity in the State of
Bihar. Such endorsement shall be made by the Chairman of the Board.
25.
Fees.
- A fee of Rs. 10 shall be paid for endorsement on the certificate.
26.
Refund of fees.
- Candidates once admitted to an examination under these Rules shall not be entitled to any refund of fees. When a
candidate is unavoidably absent from the examination on the date fixed, the Chairman of the Board may allow him to
appear without payment of a second fee at the next examination.
27.
Fees of candidates found ineligible.
- A candidate who has paid the examination fee but is found ineligible for an examination may apply within one year
from the date of payment for a refund of the fee or he may be allowed to appear without payment of second fee at any
subsequent examination held within one year from the date of payment of the fee, provided that he has become eligible
to sit for such subsequent examination.
Part VI ? Application for Examination
28.
Form of application.
- Every application for examination shall be in Form 'A.' The applicant shall fill in such parts of the form as are to be filled
in by a candidate and shall sign the form in the presence of a Gazetted Officer or an Honorary Magistrate who shall
attest his signature. The application so filled in shall be forwarded to the Secretary at least one month before the date
fixed for the examination and shall be accompanied by-
(a)
Page 5/13
----- PAGE 6 -----
Bihar Boiler Operation Engineer's Rules, 1960
Originals and one copy each of all testimonials in respect of practical experience and theoretical qualifications of the
candidate.
(b)
Testimonials of goods character from his employer, with a certificate of age.
(c)
A Treasury Challan or Crossed Indian Postal Order or a Cheque payable to Chief Inspector of Boilers, Bihar for
evidence in support of payment of the fee specified in these Rules for the examination at which the applicant wishes to
appear.
(d)
Two copies of recent bust photograph (size 2" x 2 ½") one of which shall bear the signature and the thumb impression of
the applicant on the back, duly attested by a Gazetted Officer or employer.
(e)
A certificate from the District Magistrate to the effect that the applicant is a citizen of India.
29.
Candidate to produce satisfactory testimonials.
(1)
No candidate shall be admitted to an examination who cannot produce a satisfactory testimonial certifying his
experience, ability, sobriety and general good conduct for the whole period of his qualifying service, as specified in Rule
33. Any break in the period of qualifying service shall be accounted for. Such testimonials shall clearly state the capacity
in which the candidate was employed, whether as an Apprentice Engineer, Supervisor, Assistant Engineer, or Engineer
and the periods of such employment stating the dates between which the candidate was so employed.
(2)
The testimonials shall be signed by a responsible officer under whom the candidate has directly served and be
countersigned by the employer, agent, or Manager of the workshop or factory and clearly state the capacity in which the
candidate was employed giving details of his work and degree of responsibility with relation to steam generation, in
preparation and maintenance of boilers and show dates between which candidate was employed.
(3)
Candidates who have undergone a course of training at an engineering college or technical institution must produce
either the diploma of the institution or a certificate from the Principal or Superintendent of the Institution giving the period
devoted in completing the course.
(4)
The testimonial in respect of service on a steamship may be signed by the Chief Engineer and countersigned by the
Master of the vessel or may be in the form of a seamen's discharge certificate issued by a Shipping Master.
(5)
The testimonial or service rendered on Railway boilers or boiler belonging to a Government Department or local bodies,
shall be signed by a responsible officer under whom the candidate has directly served and countersigned by the head of
the department concerned.
30.
Doubtful testimonials.
- If the Secretary has reason to doubt the truth of any statement made in any application of testimonials, he may make
such enquiries as he thinks fit to verify the same.
31.
False testimonials.
(1)
If on enquiry the Secretary is satisfied that any testimonial submitted by a candidate is false in any material particular, he
shall submit his findings to the Board. The Board may by a written order debar such candidate from being admitted to
any examination held under these Rules. If on the strength of any such testimonial, a candidate has already been
admitted to an examination, he shall be deemed to have failed in such examination and any certificate granted to him as
a result of his having been declared to have passed such examination, shall be forthwith recalled and be cancelled by a
notification in the Official Gazette.
(2)
Page 6/13
----- PAGE 7 -----
Bihar Boiler Operation Engineer's Rules, 1960
Before taking any action under sub-rule (1) the candidate shall be given a reasonable opportunity of being heard in the
matter.
(3)
Anybody aggrieved by the decision of the Board may within 30 days of the date of the order appeal to the State
Government whose decision thereon shall be final.
32.
Filing of copies and return of original testimonials.
- Applications and copies of testimonials submitted by candidates shall be filed in the office of the Chairman. Original
testimonials shall be returned to the candidates as soon as possible.
Part VII ? Age and Training
33.
Qualifications required.
- A candidate for a certificate of proficiency as a Boiler Operation Engineer shall not be less than 23 years of age and
shall not be admitted to the examination unless he proves to the satisfaction of the Chairman that-
(a)
he has successfully completed a full time apprentice engineer's course in a recognised workshop engaged in making or
repairing of boilers and accessories, or diploma course in an institution recognised by Government or a degree or
diploma in mechanical or electrical engineering from a recognised University.
(b)
he has, served for not less than 2 years as an Engineer or Assistant Engineer in the running, and maintenance of a
battery of boilers not less than two in number and each of not less than 1,000 square feet heating surface.
34.
Service not in strict conformity with Rules.
- Notwithstanding anything contained in Rule 33, the Board may grant exemption from the written examination as
prescribed in these Rules to those who successfully pass Operation Engineers' Training Course held by the Government
of Bihar.
Part VIII ? Examination Subjects
35.
Syllabus for examination.
- A candidate in order to be qualified for a certificate of proficiency under these Rules, shall inter alia satisfy the
examiners that he-
(a)
can calculate loads, areas, volumes, quantities and weights;
(b)
can give a description of the principal types of steam boilers used on land and to state the purposes and reasons for
which different types of boilers are employed; and from the date and formulae supplied, calculate the safe working
pressure for any further part of a boiler in accordance with the Indian Boilers Regulations;
(c)
can calculate the direct stress, the torsional stress and the bending stress in round bars and shafts and the bending
stress in rectangular bars and levers with given load;
(d)
understands the working and management of steam boilers, superheaters and economisers;
(e)
understands the use and purpose of various valves, cocks, mountings, fittings and other safety devices;
(f)
can give a description of and explain functions of feed pumps, feed injectors, feed regulators, feed water filters, and
softners, feed heaters, air heaters, calorifiers, steam accumulators, forced draught, induced draught and automatic
draught control devices;
(g)
can answer questions on facts relating to combustion, heat and steam and calculate consumption of coal and water and
the quantity of steam that may be generated from a given aggregate area of heating surface under the various systems
Page 7/13
----- PAGE 8 -----
Bihar Boiler Operation Engineer's Rules, 1960
of draught, in any land boiler, and also calculate the overall efficiency of a boiler plant;
(h)
can explain jet and surface condensation, reheating and the working of steam extensively;
(i)
can explain the general methods employed in laying foundation for boilers and chimneys and the suitable area and
height of chimneys to promote efficient combustion;
(j)
can explain the significance of principal appliances in use for the prevention of smoke and the principle on which they
work and give description of the principal mechanical stokers pulverisers, gas, oil and pulverised fuel systems in use;
(k)
understands the need for periodical cleaning, the methods used for prevention of scale or other deposits on heating
surfaces and the necessity for maintaining a certain PH value in feed water;
(l)
can detect defects in boilers and state the means and methods of rectifying them;
(m)
understands the precautions to be taken for starting a boiler and economiser from cold or from benked fire condition;
(n)
understands the procedure to be adopted in putting an economiser out of commission while the boiler is on steam;
(o)
can read and prepare a working sketch and drawing of boilers and boiler mountings or parts thereof; and
(p)
can explain the methods adopted for the achievement of fuel economy and the use of various instruments used in a
Boiler House.
Part IX ? Mode of Examination
36.
Nature of Examination.
- Examination for certificate of proficiency as a Boiler Operation Engineer shall be of such nature as to test the practical
ability and technical knowledge of the candidates to be in charge of steam generating plants of all types and pressures
in land use.
37.
Subjects for Examination.
- Examination shall be conducted in the following manner:-
(a)
a written examination consisting of one paper on mathematics, one paper on applied mechanics and one paper on
boilers and heat engines, set with reference to the syllabus prescribed in Rule 35;
(b)
a drawing examination to make within a prescribed time and drawing and/or sketch of a boiler or part thereof with
reference to clause (c) of Rule 35; and
(c)
an oral examination to answer questions apertaining to Boilers Practice and if required by the examiner to demonstrate
in the examination room or in a workshop his ability to carry out the practical aspects of his duties in a workman like
manner.
38.
Assessment of work.
- A candidate shall secure at least 45 per cent of the marks in each written paper as well as in the oral and drawing
examinations; but the aggregate should not be less than 55 per cent of the total marks in order that he can be awarded
a certificate of proficiency under these Rules.
39.
Fees for examination.
- Candidates for examination for certificate of proficiency as a Boiler Operation Engineer shall pay a fee of Rs. 30 which
shall not, except as otherwise provided in these Rules, be refundable.
Page 8/13
----- PAGE 9 -----
Bihar Boiler Operation Engineer's Rules, 1960
Part X ? Grant of Certificate
40.
Grant of certificate of proficiency.
- If a candidate passes the examination, his result will be notified in the Official Gazette and he shall be granted a
certificate as soon as practicable after such publication.
41.
Form of certificate.
- A certificate of proficiency as a Boiler Operation Engineer shall be in Form 'B'.
42.
Application for endorsement on a certificate.
- An application for endorsement in the certificate for validity in a State other than the State of issue, shall be made in
Form 'A'.
43.
Identification requirement.
- Every certificate granted under these Rules shall bear a bust photograph of the holder thereof previously submitted
alongwith his application under Rule 28 and his signature and thumb impression and such other particulars as may be
required for the purposes of identification.
44.
Grant of duplicate certificate.
(1)
Whenever the holder of a certificate proves to the satisfaction of the Chairman that the certificate granted to him under
these rules has been lost, stolen or destroyed or mutilated without any fault on his part, he shall be granted on payment
of a fee of Rs. 15 a duplicate certificate to which, by the record so kept as aforesaid, he appears to be entitled. The
duplicate certificate shall have for all purposes the same validity as the original certificate.
(2)
If on enquiry the Secretary is satisfied that any statement made by the applicant for the issue of a duplicate certificate is
false he shall report the case to the Board at its next meeting, and the Board may in its discretion cancel the certificate
or permit the grant as aforesaid of a duplicate certificate either immediately, or after such period not exceeding twelve
months as the Board may think fit having regard to the circumstances of each case.
45.
Application for duplicate certificate.
- Application for a duplicate certificate shall be lodged with the Chairman with a declaration before a Gazetted Officer or
a Magistrate stating that the certificate granted under these Rules has been lost without fault on the part of the applicant.
46.
Invalidity of original certificate.
- On the issue of a duplicate certificate, the original certificate shall cease to be valid, and shall, if in the possession of
the holder thereof, be returned to the office of the Chairman for cancellation.
47.
Record of duplicate certificate.
- Duplicates of all certificates granted under these Rules shall be recorded in the office of the Chairman.
48.
Enquiry regarding certificate holders.
(1)
If a District Magistrate or the Chief Inspector of Boilers has reason to believe from any cause whatsoever, that any
enquiry should be made into allegations of incompetence, drunkenness, misconduct or negligence of duties on the part
of a Boiler Operation Engineer-
(a)
the District Magistrate may either himself or by a Magistrate of the First Class,
(b)
the Chief Inspector of Boilers may either himself or by an Inspector of Boilers duly authorised by him in this behalf, make
such enquiry.
Page 9/13
----- PAGE 10 -----
Bihar Boiler Operation Engineer's Rules, 1960
(2)
The proceedings shall be held in the presence of the person whose conduct forms the subject of enquiry and he shall
have an opportunity of making any statement he may wish to make and of producing any evidence in his defence.
(3)
The proceedings of any such enquiry together with the findings thereon by the officer conducting the enquiry shall be
forwarded by that officer for decision of the Board.
49.
Surrender of certificate.
- When an enquiry is being conducted under Rule 48 the holder of such certificate shall on demand by the officer
charged with the enquiry, forthwith surrender his certificate to the said officer pending the result of such enquiry.
50.
Decision of the Board.
(1)
On receipt of the proceedings of the enquiry conducted under Rule 48 together with the findings thereon the Board may
allow the certificate to stand or suspend it for such period as it thinks fit or may cancel the certificate permanently.
(2)
Before taking any action under sub-rule (1) the candidate shall be given a reasonable opportunity of being heard in the
matter.
(3)
Anybody aggrieved by the decision of the Board may within 30 days of the date of the order appeal to the State
Government whose decision thereon shall be final.
Part XI ? Penalty
51.
Penalty for contravention of the Rules.
- The owner of a boiler or any person who works or permits or causes the boiler to be worked at any time in
contravention of Rules 3, 5, 6 and 7 whichever applies, shall be punishable with fine which may extend to Rs. 100.
Part XII ? Miscellaneous
52.
Fees for examination.
- The candidates for examination for certificate of proficiency shall pay a fee of Rs. 30 which shall not be returnable.
Note. - All fees for examination for certificate of proficiency as a Boiler Operation Engineer leviable under these Rules
shall be paid into the Dhanbad Treasury by means of challans or may be paid by Crossed Indian Postal Orders or may
be paid by cheques to the Chief Inspector of Boilers, Bihar drawn on the State Bank of India, Dhanbad. The Indian
Postal Orders and the Cheques must be crossed and drawn in favour of the Chief Inspector of Boilers, Bihar by
designation and not by name. All such fees whether paid into the said treasury by means of challans or Crossed Indian
Postal Orders or paid by Crossed Cheques, shall be credited to the receipt head "XXXVI - Miscellaneous Departments -
Examination Fees - Other Examination fees".
53.
These Rules shall be in addition to and not in derogation of the Bihar Boiler Attendant's Rules, 1948.
Form A
(See Rules 24, 28 and 42)
Application for examination for Certificate of Proficiency as Boiler Operation Engineer
Division I - Name, etc. of the applicant
1.
Name (in full)
...
...
2.
Father's Name
...
...
Page 10/13
----- PAGE 11 -----
Bihar Boiler Operation Engineer's Rules, 1960
3.
Nationality and Religion
...
...
4.
Date of birth
...
...
5.
Place of birth
...
...
6.
Permanent address
...
...
7.
Whether appeared in any previous examination
...
...
8.
If so, when and where
...
...
Note - 1. Every application must be accompanied by-
(a)
originals and one copy each of all testimonials in respect of practical experience and theoretical qualifications of the
candidates;
(b)
testimonials of good character from his employer, with a certificate of age;
(c)
a treasury challan or a cheque payable to the Chief Inspector of Boilers, Bihar for evidence in support of payment of the
fee specified in these Rules for the examination at which the applicant wishes to appear;
(d)
two copies of recent bust photograph (size 2" x 2 ½") one of which shall bear the signature and the thumb impression of
the applicant on the back duly attested by a Gazetted Officer or employer.
(e)
a certificate from the District Magistrate to the effect that the applicant is a citizen of India.
2. Any person making a false statement for the purpose of admission to the examination renders himself liable to
prosecution.
3. Incomplete applications are liable to be rejected.
Division II - Particulars of all Certificate submitted
Number of the certificate
Class of certificate
Where issued
Date of issue
If at any time suspended or cancelled, and if so,
state by whom
Date of suspension or cancellation
Causes of suspension or cancellation
1
Page 11/13
----- PAGE 12 -----
Bihar Boiler Operation Engineer's Rules, 1960
2
3
4
5
6
7
Division III - List of testimonials and statements of services
(The testimonials to be numbered serially corresponding to the numbers given in column 1 below)
Serial number of testimonials
Date of the testimonials
Names of persons signing the testimonials
Address and designation of factory or workshop
where employed
Number, type and heating surface of boilers
worked on
Capacity in which employed
1
2
3
4
5
6
Date of commencement
Service of applicant
Not to be filled in by the applicant
Date of termination
Time employed in this service.
Initial of verifier
Remarks
Year
Month
Days
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
Total service. Time served for which certificates are produced. Time served for which no certificates are produced.
Division IV - Declaration to be made by the applicant
I do hereby declare that the statement made in Divisions I, II and III of this form are correct and true to the best of my
knowledge and belief, and that the papers enumerated in Division III and submitted with this form are true and genuine
documents and further that the copies of the documents submitted with this form are true and correct. I further declare
that the statements made in Division II contain a true and correct account of the whole period of my service without
exception, and I make this declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true.
Dated at               this               day of               19
Signature of the applicantPresent address....................
Signed in the presence of:-
Signature....................Designation................
Note. - (1) Every application must be accompanied by a treasury challan or such evidence as may be prescribed by the
Page 12/13
----- PAGE 13 -----
Bihar Boiler Operation Engineer's Rules, 1960
State Government showing that the fee for the examination has been paid.
(2)
Two copies of a recent bust photograph of the applicant (size 2" x 2 ½") must accompany the application with applicant's
signature on the back thereof, duly attested by a Gazetted Officer or the employer.
(3)
Any person making a false statement for the purpose of admission to the examination renders himself liable to
prosecution.
(4)
Incomplete applications are liable to be rejected
Form B
(See Rule 41)
Government of Bihar
Certificate of Proficiency as Boiler Operation Engineer
No. ..................... of 19
Shri .........., aged about ............. years, at present residing at ................ having satisfied the Board of Examiners
appointed under the Bihar Boiler Operation Engineers' Rules, 1960 of his proficiency to fulfil the duties of a Boiler
Operation' Engineer is granted under the said Rules, this certificate of proficiency authorising him to be in charge of
boilers of any type or size provided that the boilers are so situated that no one of them is distant 150 feet from any other
of them.
Dated, at ..................... this .................... day of ............ 19
Chairman, Board of Examiners
Secretary, Board of Examiners
PHOTO
Descriptive Roll -
1.
Date and place of birth
...
2.
Permanent address
...
3.
Nationality and religion
...
4.
Height (without shoes)
...
5.
Marks of identification
...
6.
Left thumb impression
...
Endorsements
Signature of the applicant
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 13/13