
----- PAGE 1 -----
Bihar Money-Lenders Act, 1974
Bihar Money-Lenders Act, 1974
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/92168487/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
131
]
State of Bihar - Act
Bihar Money-Lenders Act, 1974
BIHAR
India
Bihar Money-Lenders Act, 1974
Act 22 of 1975
Published on 20 March 1975
Commenced on 20 March 1975
[This is the version of this document from 20 March 1975.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Bihar Money-Lenders Act, 1974
Bihar Act
22 of 1975
This Act received the assent of the President of India on the 20th March, 1975 and its authoritative English Text was
published with the Law Department's Notification No. Log. 1028, dated 22nd July, 1975 (see Bihar Gazette
(Extraordinary) dated the 25th July, 1975. This has superseded the authoritative English Text published previously
(Bihar Gazette (Extraordinary Gazette), Patna No. 537, dated the 29th April, 1975). For Objects and Reasons see Bihar
Vidhan Parishad Secretariat notification No. 335/7- 4334 (2). V.P., dated 16th December, 1974 published in Bihar
Gazette (Extraordinary), Gazette No. Patna 1127, dated the 16th December, 1874.
An Act to consolidate and amend the law relating to regulation of money lending transactions and to grant relief to
debtors in the State of Bihar.
Page 1/16
----- PAGE 2 -----
Bihar Money-Lenders Act, 1974
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Bihar in the twenty fifth year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Chapter I
Preliminary
1.
Short title, extent and commencement.
(1)
This Act may be called the Bihar Money-Lenders Act, 1974.
(2)
It extends to the whole of the State of Bihar.
(3)
it shall come into force at once.
2.
Definitions.
- In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant to the subject or context-
(a)
"Anchal Adhikari" means an officer appointed as such by the State Government;
(b)
"Collector" includes an Additional Collector, an Additional Deputy Commissioner and any other officer not below the rank
of a Deputy Collector specially empowered by the State Government to discharge all or any of the functions of a
Collector under this Act:
(c)
"Commissioner" includes, Additional Commissioner and any officer not below the rank of the Collector of a district
appointed by the State Government to discharge all or any of the functions of a Commissioner under this Act;
(d)
"Court" includes the Anchal Adhikari, any officer deciding a dispute arising out of the provisions of this Act, a Certificate
Officer under the Bihar and Orissa Public Demands Recovery Act, 1914 and also includes any Officer appointed as such
by the State Government by notification in this behalf to exercise the powers and perform all or any of the functions of an
Anchal Adhikari or a Collector or a Commissioner under this Act;
(e)
"Decree" includes an award and an order of Contribution passed under the Bihar and Orissa Co-operative Societies Act
1935 or any decree passed by an Anchal Adhikari, or a Revenue Officer under this Act;
(f)
"Decree-holder" includes a Certificate holder under the Bihar and Orissa Public Demands Recovery Act, 1914;
(g)
"Interest" means rate of interest and includes the amount to be returned over and above the money actually lent whether
the same is charged or sought to be recovered specifically by way of interest or otherwise;
(h)
"Judgement debtor" includes a certificate debtor under the Bihar and Orissa Public Demands Recovery Act, 1914;
(i)
"Land Reforms Deputy Collector" means-
(i)
an officer appointed as such by the State Government, or
(ii)
an officer not below the rank of a Deputy Collector empowered by the State Government by notification in the Official
Gazette to perform all or any of the functions of a Land Reforms Deputy Collector under this Act;
(j)
"Loan" means an advance, whether of money or in kind, on interest made by a money lender and shall include
mandeorha, sawaiya, rehan, Bandhak, pauni, sundbharha, kishti and any transaction on a bond bearing interest
executed in respect of a past liability and any transaction which, in substance, is a loan but shall not include-
(i)
a loan advanced by the State Government or by any local body authorised by the State Government;
Page 2/16
----- PAGE 3 -----
Bihar Money-Lenders Act, 1974
(ii)
a deposit of money in a Post Officer Savings Bank or a deposit of money or any other property in any other Bank or in
any Company or with a Co-operative Society registered, or deemed to be registered, under the Bihar and Orissa
Co-operative Societies Act, 1935.
Explanation. - (i) A bond bearing interest executed in respect of goods taken on credit constitutes a loan.
(ii)
To supply goods on credit is not a loan.
(k)
"Money lender" means a person who advances a loan and shall include a Hindu undivided family and the legal
representatives and successors in interest, whether by inheritance, assignment or otherwise of a person who advances
a loan;
(l)
'prescribed' means prescribed by Rules made under this Act;
(m)
"Principal" means in relation to a loan the amount actually lent to the debtor;
(n)
"Registered money lender" means a person whose registration certificate granted under Section 4 still subsists and has
not been cancelled under Section 33 and shall include a Hindu undivided family and the legal representatives and
successors-in-interest whether by inheritance, assignment or otherwise of a registered money-lender;
(o)
"Secured Loan" means a loan for which the money-lender holds a mortgage charge or lien on the property of the debtor
or any part thereof as a security for the loan;
(p)
"Sub Registrar" means a Sub Registrar appointed as such under the Registration Act, 1908 and includes an Anchal
Adhikari or any other officer who may be appointed to perform the duties of a Sub-Registrar under this Act by the State
Government by a notification published in the Official Gazette;
(q)
"Suit" includes any proceeding taken for the recovery of a loan before the Anchal Adhikari, any Officer deciding a
dispute arising out of the provisions of this Act, a Certificate Officer under the Bihar and Orissa Public Demands
Recovery Act, 1914 or any person exercising the powers and performing all or any of the functions of an Anchal
Adhikari, a Collector or a Commissioner under this Act and also includes an appeal, and
(r)
"Unsecured loan" means any loan other than a secured loan.
3.
Exemption of money-lenders from operation of this Act.
- The State Government may, by notification for any special reasons or reason to be stated in such notification, exempt
any class of money lenders or any class of loans in the whole or any part of the State of Bihar from the operation of all or
any of the provisions of this Act.
Chapter II
Registration of Money-Lenders and accounts to be kept by them.
4.
Register of money-lenders.
(1)
Every Anchal Adhikari or such other Officer as may be appointed by the State Government by notification in this behalf
published in the Official Gazette, shall maintain a register of money-lenders in such form and containing such particulars
as may be prescribed.
(2)
Such register shall be deemed to be public document within the meaning of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872.
5.
Registration of money-lenders and registration fee.
(1)
Page 3/16
----- PAGE 4 -----
Bihar Money-Lenders Act, 1974
Every moneylender shall get himself registered and unless he is so registered it shall not be lawful for him to act as
such.
(2)
For the purpose of registration as a money-lender a person shall make an application in writing stating therein-
(a)
the name and address of the applicant;
(b)
the name and style under which he carries on or desires to carry on business as a money-lender;
(c)
the principal places of his business and the branches thereof, if any;
(d)
whether any certificate of registration previously granted to him under the Act has been cancelled; and
(dd)
[ In case of a company, it has obtained a Registration Certificate under Section 45-1 A(1) of Reserve Bank of India Act,
1934 and its photo copy have been attached with the application]
[Inserted by. (Act 5 of 2007).]
.
(e)
such other particulars as may be prescribed.
(3)
(a)
Every application made under sub-section (2) shall be accompanied with the prescribed registration fee, and shall be
presented to the Anchal Adhikari within whose jurisdiction the principal place of business referred to in clause (c) of
sub-section (2) is situated.
(b)
Any such application which is not accompanied with the prescribed registration fee or does not contain the particulars
specified in sub-section (2) shall be summarily rejected.
(4)
The State Government may by rules prescribed for different classes of money lenders and for different areas a
registration fee not exceeding twenty five rupees to be paid by an applicant for registration:
Provided that the Government may by notification exempt any person or class of persons from the payment of the
registration fee either generally or in any specified area.
(5)
On receipt of an application under clause (a) of sub-section (3) the Anchal Adhikari, shall, except where a certificate
previously granted to the applicant has been cancelled under section 33 and the order of the cancellation is in force,
grant a registration certificate in the prescribed from to the applicant.
6.
Duration of registration certificate.
- A registration certificate granted under Section 5, shall unless sooner cancelled under Section 33 remain in force for
five years from the date on which it is granted.
7.
Duty of registered money-lender to maintain accounts and to give receipts and inspection of accounts.
(1)
Every registered money-lender shall in respect of every loan advanced by him after the commencement of the [Bihar
Money-Lenders Act, 1938 (Bihar Act III of 1938) and every transaction made by him after the commencement']
[The said Act has been repeated and re-enacted by the Bihar Money-Lenders Act, 1974 (Bihar Act
22 of 1975
) and any reference to the former Act should be construed to refer to be the latter Act.]
of the said Act relating to any loan advanced by him before or after the commencement of the said Act-
(a)
regularly record and maintain or cause to be recorded or maintained an account showing for each debtor-
Page 4/16
----- PAGE 5 -----
Bihar Money-Lenders Act, 1974
(i)
the date of the loan, the amount of the principal of the loan and rate per centum per annum of interest charged on the
loan;
(ii)
the amount of every payment received by the money-lenders in respect of the loan and the date of such payment, and
(iii)
any other terms which may be agreed upon between the moneylender and the debtor;
(b)
give to the debtor or his agent, a receipt for every sum paid by, or on behalf of the debtor duly signed, and if necessary,
stamped at the time of such payment.
(c)
deliver or send by registered post to the debtor or his agent, within fifteen days of advancing the loan, a copy of the
entries recorded under sub-clause (i) and (iii) of clause (a);
(d)
deliver or send by registered post to the debtor or his agent, at least once in every calender year, statement of account
signed by himself or his agent, showing the balance of amount that may be outstanding against such debtor on account
of the principal and interest at the time of delivering or sending by registered post the said statement of account, the
amount of every payment received by the money-lender in respect of the loan and the date of such payment during the
period to which the statement relates; and
(e)
give to the debtor a signed receipt for every pawned article with its general description, immediately after it is pawned,
mentioning the amount for which it is pawned.
(2)
A person to whom a copy of entries in the account has been delivered or sent under clause (c) of sub-section (1) or a
statement of account has been delivered or sent under clause (d) of sub-section (1) and who fails to object to the
correctness of the account or the statement of account shall not, by reason of such failure alone, be deemed to have
admitted the correctness of such account or such statement of account.
(3)
The registers maintained by the Anchal Adhikari or the prescribed officer under Section 4, all accounts maintained by a
money-lender under this Act, all documents in respect of loans advanced by a money-lender of which he may be in
possession and his registration certificate shall be liable to be inspected and examined by such authority as may be
prescribed by the State Government by notification published in the Official Gazette in this behalf and such authority
shall have the same powers in making enquiries with respect to correct maintenance of account and registers under this
Act as are vested in a Court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Act V of 1908) in trying a suit, namely:
(a)
admission of evidence by affidavits;
(b)
summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person and examining him on oath;
(c)
compelling production of documents; and
(d)
award of costs.
(4)
all inquiries and proceedings under this Section before the prescribed authority, shall be deemed to be judicial
proceeding for the purpose of Sections 193, 196 and 228 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (Act 45 of 1860).
(5)
A money lender shall in a suit for recovery of money advanced by him as loan file a copy of the relevant extracts from
his register of accounts relating to the said loan and he shall not be entitled to maintain any claim beyond the entries
made in his register of accounts.
(6)
The State Government after the commencement of this Act may by notification published in the Official Gazette require
Page 5/16
----- PAGE 6 -----
Bihar Money-Lenders Act, 1974
every money-lender to declare within such period and to such authority, as may be specified therein, the date and
amount of loan advanced by him to any member of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe along with the details, of
interest, repayments of loan, if any, particulars of the debtor and other terms and conditions of the loan.
(7)
If any money-lender fails to declare the particulars of the loan advanced by him within the period specified in the
notification as required under sub section (6) or within such extended period, as may be allowed by the State
Government, it shall be presumed that he has not advanced any loan to such member and any claim to such loan or the
interest due thereon shall notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any other law for the time being in force,
not be entertained in any court or Conciliation Board.
Chapter III
Provision relating to suits in respect of loans and execution of decree
8.
Suit for recovery of loan maintainable only by registered moneylenders.
- No Court shall entertain a suit filed by a money lender for recovery of loan advanced by him after the commencement
of this Act, unless such money-lender was registered as such under this Act or the [Bihar Money-Lenders Act, 1938
(Bihar Act III of 1938)]
[This Act has been repealed and re-enacted by the Bihar Money-Lenders Act, 1974 (Bihar Act
22 of 1975
). Any reference to the former Act should be construed to refer to the latter Act.]
at the time when the loan was advanced.
9.
Maximum rates of interest.
- Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any other law or in anything having the force of law or in any
contract, no Court shall in any suit brought by a money lender in respect of loan, advanced before or after the
commencement of this Act pass a decree for interest at a rate exceeding twelve per centum per annum in the case of a
secured loan and fifteen per centum per annum in the case of an unsecured loan.
10.
Agreement for payment of compound interest to be void.
-  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any other law or in anything having the force of law or in any
contract, an agreement entered into by a debtor for the payment of compound interest on loans advanced after the
commencement of the Bihar Money-lenders Regulation of Transaction) Act, 1939 (Bihar Act VII of 1939) shall be void.
11.
Maximum amount which a money lender may realise from the debtor on account of principal and interest.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any other law or in anything having the force of law or in any
agreement, it shall not be lawful for a money-lender to realise from a debtor on account of principal and interest, in case
of loan in cash more than double of the amount of the loan advanced by him, or in case of a loan in kind, one and half
time the amount of the loan advanced by him.
(2)
No Court shall in any suit brought by a money lender before or after the commencement of this Act or in any appeal or
proceedings in revision arising out of such suit pass a decree for the amount which together with interest for the period
preceding the institution of the suit, including any amount already paid towards principal or interest, either through the
Court or otherwise is in case of loan in case more than double the amount of the loan advanced, or in cash more than
double the amount of the loan advanced, or in case of a loan in kind more than one and a half times the amount of the
loan advanced, or if the loan is based on a document, in case of a loan in money, more than double the amount of the
loan mentioned in or evidenced by such document or, in case of a loan in kind more than one and a half times the
amount of the loan mentioned in or evidenced by such document.
12.
Usufructuary mortgage and their redemption.
- Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, contained in any law or anything having the force of law or in any agreement,
the principal amount and all dues in respect of an usufructuary mortgages relating to any agricultural land, whether
Page 6/16
----- PAGE 7 -----
Bihar Money-Lenders Act, 1974
executed before or after the commencement of this Act, shall be deemed to have been fully satisfied and the mortgage
shall be deemed to have been wholly redeemed on expiry of a period of seven years from the date of the execution of
the mortgage bond in respect of such land and the mortgagor shall be entitled to recover possession of the mortgaged
land in the manner prescribed under the Rules:
Provided that if the mortgage bond had been executed before the commencement of this Act nothing in this section shall
entitle the mortgagor to claim any accounts or profits from the mortgagee by the reason of the benefit of redemption of
the mortgage under this provisions.
Explanation. - Nothing in this Section shall be construed to confer a right of effecting usufructuary mortgage of land on
persons who do not possess transferable rights in such land.
13.
Power of Court to re-open certain transaction.
- In any suit brought by a money lender before or after the commencement of this Act in respect of a loan advanced
before the commencement of this Act or in any appeal or proceeding in revision arising out of such suit, the Court may
exercise all or any of the following powers:-
(a)
re-open the transaction, take an account between the parties, and relieve the debtor of all liability in respect of any
simple interest in excess of twelve per centum per annum in the case of secured loan and fifteen per centum per annum
in the case of an unsecured loan;
(b)
notwithstanding any agreement purporting to close previous dealings and to create a new obligation, re-open any
account already taken between them and relieve the debtor of full liability in respect of any simple interest in excess of
twelve per centum per annum in the case of a secured loan and fifteen per centum per annum in the case of an
unsecured loan;
(c)
set aside either wholly or in part or revise or alter any security given or agreement made in respect of any loan and if the
money lender has parted with the security, order him to identify the debtor in such manner and to such extent as it may
deem just;
(d)
direct the money-lender to repay to the debtor any amount which the money lender has realised from the debtor in
excess of the amount which he is entitled to realise under this Act.
Provided that in the exercise of these powers, the Court shall not re-open any agreement purporting to close previous
dealing and to create a new obligation which has been entered into by the parties or any person from whom they claim
at a date more than twelve years before the institution of such suit.
14.
Transfer of equity of redemption by a mortgagor by sale otherwise than in execution of decree.
- If the equity of redemption of a mortgagor is transferred by sale otherwise than in execution of decree and if out of the
consideration money for the transfer any amount due under the mortgage in respect of interest for any period preceding
the date of transfer is left in deposit with the transferee for payment to the mortgagee, the portion of the amount so left in
deposit, which is in excess of the amount which would have been payable as simple interest at the rate of twelve per
centum per annum for such period, shall not, in any suit brought before or after the commencement of this Act be taken
into account for the purpose of Section 13 and, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the said Section
the mortgagee shall, in any such suit, be entitled, to recover the amount of such excess in addition to any amount which
he may otherwise be entitled:
Provided, however, that if the amount of such excess exceeds the limit provided by Section 11 the mortgagee shall not
recover the amount of such excess and the transferee shall refund such excess to the mortgagor.
15.
Decree may order payment of amount due in respect of a loan by instalment.
- Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any other law or in anything having the force of law or in any
contract between the money-lender and the person to whom the loan was advanced, the Court may, subject to the
provisions of Section 17, order at the time of passing the decree in any suit brought before or after the commencement
of this Act relating to a loan, including a loan secured by a mortgage that any amount decreed in such suit shall be paid
Page 7/16
----- PAGE 8 -----
Bihar Money-Lenders Act, 1974
in such number of instalments and subject to such conditions and on such dates as it considers fit.
16.
Power to direct payment of amount of any decree by instalments.
-  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any other law or in anything having the force of law or in any
contract between the money-lender and the person to whom the loan was advanced, the Court may, subject to the
provisions of Section 17, direct at any time on the application of the Judgement debtor, after notice to the decree holder,
that the amount of any decree passed before or after the commencement of this Act in respect of a loan, including any
decree in a suit relating to a mortgage by which a loan is secured, shall be paid in such number of instalments and
subject to such conditions and on such dates as it considers fit;
Provided that in case of any member of a Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe, the court in fixing such date may
postpone the payment of the first instalment for a period not exceeding five years from the date of the order without any
interest for such period.
17.
Circumstances which court shall consider in fixing instalments.
- Before fixing the instalments referred to in Sections 15 and 16, the Court shall take into consideration the
circumstances, the amount of the decree and the capacity of the Judgement-debtor to pay the instalments on the due
date.
18.
Court to estimate the value of Judgement-debtor's property.
(1)
When an application is made before or after the commencement of this Act for the execution of a decree passed in
respect of loan or interest on loan advanced, by the sale of the Judgement-debtor's property, the Court executing the
decree, shall notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any other law or in any thing having the force of law,
hear the parties to the decree and estimate the value of such property and of that portion of such property, the proceeds
of the sale of which it considers will be sufficient to satisfy the decree:
Provided that the Court may order the whole property of the Judgement-debtor to be sold if it is satisfied that by reason
of the nature of such property or any other special circumstances such property cannot reasonably and conveniently be
sold in part.
(2)
Any person aggrieved by an order passed under sub-section (1) may appeal to the Court to which appeals from the
Court executing the decree ordinarily lie.
19.
Only sufficient portion of Judgement-debtor's property to be sold.
- Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any other law or in anything having the force of law, the
proclamation of the intended sale of property in execution of a decree passed before or after the commencement of this
Act in respect of a loan or the interest on a loan shall include only so much of the property of the Judgement-debtor the
proceeds of the sale of which the Court considers will be sufficient to satisfy the decree and shall state that value of the
property or portion of the property to be sold, as determined under Section 18 and such property or portion of the
property, as the case may be, shall not be sold at a price lower than the price specified in the said proclamation:
Provided that if the property to be sold is immovable and the decree-holder specified which portion of such property
should be sold, the Court shall order that such portion or so much of such portion as may be deemed necessary to
satisfy the decree may be sold:
Provided further that if the highest amount bid for the property included in the sale proclamation is less than the price
specified for such property in the proclamation, the Court may sell the property for such higher amount if the
decree-holder consents in writing to forgo so much of the amount decreed as is equal to the difference between the
highest amount bid and the price specified for such property in the sale proclamation.
20.
Exemption of portion of holding from attachment or sale in execution of a decree.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any other law or in anything having the force of law, where a
decree is passed before or after the commencement of this Act for the payment by an agricultural debtor of the amount
Page 8/16
----- PAGE 9 -----
Bihar Money-Lenders Act, 1974
due on any loan advanced to him by a money-lender, the Court executing the decree:
(i)
shall exempt from sale one acre of the land comprised in the holding or holdings of the Judgement debtor, if the area of
such land does not exceed three acres;
(ii)
shall exempt one acre, and may exempt any further portion of such land if the area of such land exceeds three acres;
provided that the total area exempted from sale does not exceed one third of the total area of such land; and
(iii)
shall not pass decree for the payment of the amount due on account of any loan advanced to the agricultural debtor, on
homestead and up to one acre of homestead land of the debtor.
(2)
For the purposes of this Section "agricultural debtor" means a raiyat, the total area of whose holdings does not exceed
such area as the State Government may fix for the district in which such holding or holdings are situated.
21.
Saving of Court's power under the Usurious Loans Act, 1918.
- Save as otherwise provided in Section 13, nothing in this Act shall affect the powers of Court under the Usurious Loans
Act, 1918.
22.
Payment of loans in cash to a debtor etc, to be made in the presence of the Sub-Registrar.
- Where a loan is advanced on a registered document the entire amount of the loan, or so much amount out of it as may
be payable in cash at the time of execution of the debtor or his duly authorised agent in the presence of the
Sub-Registrar who will register the document and the said Sub-Registrar shall make an endorsement to that effect on
the document.
Illustration. - The consideration for a mortgage bond for Rs. 5,000 is made up of the following sums:
(i)
Rs. 1,000 paid to the mortgagor long ago before the execution of the bond;
(ii)
Rs. 1,500 paid to him in cash at the time of the execution of the bond; and
(iii)
Rs. 2,500 to be paid to him in future as and when required by him. Only the second out of these three sums (namely, the
sum of Rs. 1,500 to be paid at the time of the execution of the bond) shall be payable to mortgagor or his duly
authorised agent in the presence of the Sub-Registrar who will register the document.
Chapter IV
Conciliation Proceedings
23.
Power of the State Government to refer disputes to the Board.
- If in the opinion of the State Government it is necessary or expedient so to do, the State Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, refer any dispute whether any suit or proceeding be or be not pending in a court with
regard to the whole or part of the subject of such dispute to a Conciliation Board to be constituted by the State
Government for each district/hereinafter referred to as the Board) for the purpose of bringing about an amicable
settlement of such dispute and if no such settlement can be brought about, for deciding the same in such manner as
appears to the Board to be reasonable.
Explanation. - "Dispute" for the purpose of this chapter shall mean a dispute of difference regarding loan the amount of
which singly or in aggregate exceeds one hundred rupees (excluding interest) between a debtor and his money-lender.
24.
Constitution of the Board.
(1)
A Board to be constituted by the State Government under Section 23 shall consist of a Chairman who shall be person
agreed upon by both the parties or otherwise an officer not below the rank of Sub-Deputy Collector nominated by the
State Government, and two members to represent the parties to the dispute.The nomination of the person to represent
any party shall be made on the recommendation of that party:
Page 9/16
----- PAGE 10 -----
Bihar Money-Lenders Act, 1974
Provided that if any party does not recommend any person to represent him or recommend a person who is not
available within such time as the State Government considers reasonable, the State Government may nominate such
person as it thinks fit to represent that party.
(2)
If at any time before such Board has completed its work, the services of the Chairman or any member of such Board
ceases to be available, or any member of such Board fails to the meeting of the Board on two successive dates without
showing cause to the satisfaction of the Chairman, the State Government may nominate any person to take his place
and proceeding shall be continued before such Board as so constituted and thereafter no act of the Board shall be
deemed to be invalid by reason only of a defect in the constitution of the Board or by reason of such act having been
done during the period of any vacancy in the membership of the Board.
25.
Consequences to ensue on reference.
- When a dispute is referred to a Board under this Chapter, then notwithstanding anything contained in any other law-
(a)
the jurisdiction of a court in any suit or proceeding in respect of the subject-matter of the dispute shall be barred from the
date of the notification under Section 23; and
(b)
any suit or proceeding in a Court in regard to the whole or any part of such dispute shall be discontinued.
26.
Duty of Board to bring about amicable settlement of disputes.
(1)
A Board to which a dispute is referred under Section 23, shall, after giving such notice to the parties and in such manner
as it thinks fits, endeavour to bring about an amicable settlement of the dispute and for this purpose such Board shall, in
such manner as it thinks fit and without delay, investigate the dispute and all matters affecting the merits thereof and the
right settlement thereof and in so doing may do such lawful things as it thinks fit for the purpose of inducing the parties to
come to a fair and amicable settlement of the dispute:
Provided that an amicable settlement of the dispute shall in no case involve the transfer of land of the debtor.
(2)
Where such a settlement is brought about the Board shall record the same and give its decision accordingly.
27.
Board to enquire into and decide the dispute in case no amicable settlement is reached.
(1)
Where a Board does not succeed in bringing about an amicable settlement of the dispute; it shall make an enquiry into
the same, receive such evidence as it considers necessary, and decide the amount; if any, payable to the money-lender
and order payment of the amount, with or without cost, in instalments as provided in Sections 15 and 16.
(2)
In case it is decided that nothing is due from the debtor, the Board may award costs, if any, to the debtor.
(3)
The decision of the Board shall be deemed to be a decree within the meaning of clause (2) of Section 2 of the Code of
Civil Procedure, 1908.
28.
Opinion of majority to prevail.
- In the event of the members of the Board disagreeing, the decision of majority shall prevail:
Provided that nothing in his section shall be deemed to prevent any member of such Board to have on records his
minute of dissent against such decision.
29.
Form and effect of decision of Board.
(1)
The decisions of the Board shall be in writing and shall be signed by all the members of such Board and it shall contain
such particulars as may be prescribed by Rules made by the State Government in this behalf.
(2)
Page 10/16
----- PAGE 11 -----
Bihar Money-Lenders Act, 1974
The decision of the Board shall be final and shall not be called in question in any Court of law
30.
Board to follow its own procedure.
- Subject to the provisions of this Act and subject to any rules made by the State Government in this behalf, the
procedure to be followed by the Board shall be such as it may consider just and convenient and the Board shall not be
bound to follow any laws of evidence and procedure.
31.
Power of Board to summon witnesses and compel production of documents.
- The Board shall have the same power regarding the summoning and attendance of witnesses and compelling the
production of documents as a Civil Court has under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908.
32.
Delegation of powers of State Government.
- The State Government may, by notification, delegate the powers vested in it by Sections 23 and 24 to any officer not
below the rank of an Additional District Magistrate subordinate to the State Government.
Chapter V
Cancellation of registration certificate and penalties
33.
Power of the Collector to cancel registration certificate.
(1)
Where in any suit brought in respect of a loan by a registered money-lender or in respect of any security taken for a loan
by a registered money-lender, the court is of the opinion that the registered money-lender has been guilty of fraud or of
any contravention of this Act or is otherwise unfit to carry on the business of money-lending, the Court shall make a
report to the Collector and the Collector may on receipt of such report and after due, and proper inquiry, cancel for such
period not exceeding five years, as he thinks fit the registration certificate granted to the money lender and forward a
copy of his order cancelling such certificate within the prescribed period to the Anchal Adhikari who granted the
certificate.
(2)
When the certificate of registered money-lender has been cancelled under sub-section (1), such money-lender shall not
be entitled to make any application under Section 5 during the period in which order of cancellation remains in force.
34.
Penalty for contravention of the provisions of the Act.
- If any money lender or his agent wilfully contravenes any of the provisions of this Act such money lender or his agent,
as the case may be, shall be punishable with-imprisonment which may extend to one year or with fine not exceeding five
hundred rupees or with both.
35.
Penalty for taking salami, batta, gadianaetc.
- If after the commencement of this Act, any money-lender or his agent takes from a debtor at the time of advancing a
loan or deduct out of the principal of such loan any salami, batta, gadiana or other exaction of a similar nature by
whatever name called or known, such money-lender or his agent, as the case may be shall be punishable with fine
which may extend to five hundred rupees:
Provided that if the amount of the illegal exaction exceeds five hundred rupees, the money lender shall be punishable
with such fine not exceeding the amount of such exaction.
Chapter VI
Miscellaneous
36.
Contract for payment outside the State to be void.
- Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any other law or in anything having the force of law, any contract
entered into between a money-lender and his debtor in respect of loan advanced after the commencement of this Act
providing for the payment of the amount due on such loan at any place outside the State of Bihar shall be void.
37.
Power to deposit in Court money due on account of a loan.
Page 11/16
----- PAGE 12 -----
Bihar Money-Lenders Act, 1974
(1)
When a debtor tenders to a money-lender or his agent money on account of any interest due on a loan or on account of
the principal of a loan and the money lender or his agent refuses to receive the amount tendered or refuses to grant
receipt for the same, the debtor may deposit, in any Court in which the money-lender might have instituted a suit for the
recovery of such interest or such loan, to the account of the money-lender the amount tendered as aforesaid.
(2)
The Court shall thereupon forthwith grant receipt for the deposit under the seal of the Court and cause a written notice of
the deposit to be served upon the money-lender.
(3)
The money-lender may, at any time within three years after the date of the service upon him of the notice mentioned in
sub-section (2), make an application to the Court praying for the amount deposited as aforesaid to be paid to him.
(4)
If no application is made under sub-section (3) within the period mentioned in the said sub-section, the amount
deposited shall be disposed of in the prescribed manner.
(5)
Upon receipt of an application under sub-section (3) the Court may order such amount to be paid to the applicant upon
such terms and subject to such conditions as may be specified in the order.
38.
Application by debtor for declaration of satisfaction of debt.
(1)
a debtor may after depositing in Court the amount which he admits to be due from him on account of a loan, file an
application against a money-lender for a declaration that the debt has been satisfied and, if the Court is satisfied on
hearing the parties on such an application that the debt, including the amount of principal and legally recoverable
interest has been satisfied, it shall pass a decree declaring that the debt has been satisfied.
(2)
If on an application made under sub-section (1) the Court finds that any amount is still due from the debtor to the money
lender, it shall pass a decree directing the debtor to pay such amount to the money-lender or deposit the same in court
within such period as it may deem fit and declaring the debtor free from all liabilities on such payment or deposit being
made.
(3)
The Court shall forthwith grant a receipt for the deposit made under subsection (2) under the seal of the Court and given
notice of it to money-lender.
(4)
The money-lender may, at any time within three years of the date of receipt of the notice of deposit, make an application
to the Court praying for payment to him of the amount of deposit and along with such application he shall deposit the
documents, if any, on which the loan is based.
(5)
If no application is made under sub-section (4) within the period mentioned in the said sub-section, the amount
deposited shall be disposed of in the prescribed manner.
(6)
Upon receipt of an application under sub-section (4) the Court may order such amount to be paid to the application on
such term and subject to such condition as may be specified in the order.
(7)
The Court shall return the documents deposited by the money-lender under sub-section (4) to the debtor after making
endorsement of satisfaction of the loan thereon.
39.
A receipt given by the Court shall operate as an acquittance for the amount deposited.
- A receipt given by the Court under sub-section (7) of Section 37 of sub-section (3) of Section 38 shall operate as an
acquittance for the amount deposited as aforesaid in the same manner and to the same extent as if that amount had
been received by the money-lender to whose credit the deposit was made on the date of such deposit.
40.
Page 12/16
----- PAGE 13 -----
Bihar Money-Lenders Act, 1974
Authorities under this Act to have power of Civil Court.
- While making enquiries and conducting proceedings under this Act the Collector, the Land Reforms Deputy Collector,
the Anchal Adhikari and any authority empowered by the State Government in this behalf shall have the same powers in
the matter of admission of evidence; summoning and enforcing the attendance of any party and examining him on oath,
compelling the production of documents and, award costs as are vested in Court under the Code of Civil Procedure
1908 (Act V of 1908).
41.
Enquiries and proceedings under the Act to be judicial proceeding.
-  All enquiries and proceedings under this Act before the Commissioner, the Collector, the Land Reforms Deputy
Collector, the Anchal Adhikari or any authority empowered by the State Government in this behalf shall be deemed to be
judicial proceedings for the purposes of Sections 193 and 228 of the Indian Penal code, 1860 (Act XLV of 1860).
42.
Court fee.
- Every application memorandum of appeal and application for revision filed under this Act shall bear court-fee stamp of
such value as may be prescribed.
43.
General direction, control and superintendence of the Collector, etc.
- The Land Reforms Deputy Collector, and the Anchal Adhikari shall in performance of their duties and in the exercise of
their powers under this Act be under the general direction, control and superintendence of the Collector of the district,
the Commissioner and the Board of Revenue.
Chapter VII
Appeals, revision and power to call for record of any case.
44.
Appeal.
(1)
An appeal shall lie to the Land Reforms Deputy Collector against any order of the Anchal Adhikari passed under this Act
if preferred within three months of the date of the order appealed against.
(2)
No order modifying or setting aside any order appealed against shall be assessed under this Section unless the parties
concerned have been given a reasonable opportunity of being heard.
(3)
Subject to the provisions of Sections 44 and 45 the order of the Land Reforms Deputy Collector on appeal shall be final.
45.
Revision.
- The Collector of the district may, on an application being made to him in this behalf, or for the purposes of satisfying
himself as to the legality or propriety of any order made under this Act or the Rules made thereunder by any authority or
officer subordinate to him, call for and examine the record of any case pending before or disposed of by such authority
or officer and pass such order as he thinks fit:
Provided that the Collector shall not entertain any application from any person, aggrieved by any order, unless it is made
within thirty days from the date of order.
Provided further that no order modifying, or setting aside, any order made by such authority or officer shall be passed by
the Collector unless the parties concerned have been given a reasonable opportunity of being heard.
46.
Power of the Commissioner of the Division to call for the record of any case.
- The Commissioner of the Division may call for the record of any case which has been decided under this Act by the
Court or the Anchal Adhikari or the Land Reforms Deputy Collector or the Collector; and in which either no appeal has
been preferred against the order passed or no appeal lies against such order and if it appears to the Commissioner that
such officer-
(a)
has acted without jurisdiction or exercised jurisdiction not vested in him by law; or
(b)
Page 13/16
----- PAGE 14 -----
Bihar Money-Lenders Act, 1974
has failed or improperly refused to exercise a jurisdiction so vested in him;
(c)
has acted in the exercise of his jurisdiction illegally or with material irregularity;
the Commissioner may after giving reasonable notice to the parties concerned to appear before him and after hearing
the parties concerned pass such order in the case as he thinks fit:
Provided that whereupon appearance of the parties the Commissioner is unable to hear them he may transfer the case,
for reason to be recorded in writing to the Additional Commissioner or to any officer appointed by the State Government
as Commissioner for purposes of this Act; who shall hear the parties and pass such order in the case as he thinks fit.
47.
Power to make Rules.
(1)
State Government may by notification in the Official Gazette, make Rules for carrying out all or any of the purposes of
this Act.
(2)
In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for the following
matters, namely:-
(a)
the form of the register mentioned in sub-section (1) of Section 4 and the particulars to be contained in such register;
(b)
the form of the registration certificate mentioned in sub-section (4) of Section 5;
(c)
the particulars to be contained in an application made under subsection (1) of Section 5;
(d)
the registration fee to be paid under Section 5;
(e)
the period within which the Collector shall forward to the Anchal Adhikari a copy of his order cancelling a registration
certificate under sub-section (1) of Section 33; and
(f)
the manner in which deposits made under sub-section (4) of Section 37 shall be disposed of,
(3)
Every Rule made under this Section shall be laid as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of the State
Legislature, while it is in session for a total period of fourteen days which may be comprised in one session or in two
successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session, in which it is so laid or the session immediately following
both Houses agree in making any modification in the Rule or both Houses agree that the Rule should not be made, the
Rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case be, so however, that, any
such modification or amendment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that Rule.
48.
Repeal and Savings.
(1)
The Bihar Money-Lenders Act, 1938 (Bihar Act III of 1938) and the Bihar Money-Lenders (Regulation of Transaction)
Act, 1939 (Bihar Act VII of 1939) are hereby repealed.
(2)
Notwithstanding such repeal anything done or any action taken in exercise of any power conferred by or under the said
Acts shall be deemed to have been taken in the exercise of the powers conferred by or under this Act as if this Act were
in force on the day on which such thing was done or action taken.
Notifications
S.O.571, dated 24th March, 1976, published in Bihar Gazette, Extraordinary, dated 24.3.76. - In exercise of the powers
conferred by Section 3 of the Bihar Money Lenders Act, 1974, (Bihar Act
22 of 1975
), the Governor of Bihar is hereby pleased to exempt the categories of money-lenders throughout the State of Bihar, as
specified in column 1 of the Schedule hereto annexed from the provisions of the said Act as mentioned in column 2 of
Page 14/16
----- PAGE 15 -----
Bihar Money-Lenders Act, 1974
the said Schedule thereto from the date of the commencement of the Act as their functions is to provide credit and other
economic facilities for the Industrial and economic development of this State.
Schedule
Category of money-lenders.
Provision of Act from which exempted.
1
2
1.
A Banking Company as defined in the Banking Regulation Act,
1949.
From all provisions of the said Act.
2.
The State Bank of India constituted under the State Bank of
India Act, 1955.
3.
A Subsidiary Bank as defined in the State Bank of India
(Subsidiary Banks) Act, 1959.
4.
A corresponding new bank constituted under the Banking
Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970
(Act V of 1970).
5.
A primary credit as defined in clause (c) (iv) of Section 2
of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934.
6.
A Co-operative Bank as defined in clause (b) (ii) of Section
2 of the Reserve Bank of India Act 1934.
7.
The Reserve Bank of India constituted under the Reserve Bank
of India Act, 1934.
8.
Agriculture Re-finance Corporation constituted under the
Agriculture Refinance Corporation Act, 1963.
9.
The Life Insurance Corporation of India constituted under the
Life Insurance Corporation Act, 1956.
10.
The Industrial Finance Corporation of India, constituted
under the Industrial Finance Corporation Act, 1948.
11.
The Bihar State Financial Corporation constituted under the
State Financial Corporation Act, 1951.
12.
A Regional Rural Bank established under Section 3 of the
Regional Bank Ordinance, 1975.
13.
The Unit Trust of India.
14.
The General Insurance Corporation of India.
15.
The Bihar State Credit and Investment Corporation.
Page 15/16
----- PAGE 16 -----
Bihar Money-Lenders Act, 1974
16.
The Bihar State Industrial Development Corporation.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 16/16