
----- PAGE 1 -----
Bihar Development of Homeopathic System of Medicine (Validating) Act, 1974
Bihar Development of Homeopathic System of Medicine (Validating)
Act, 1974
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/122978605/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Bihar - Act
Bihar Development of Homeopathic System of Medicine (Validating) Act, 1974
BIHAR
India
Bihar Development of Homeopathic System of Medicine (Validating) Act, 1974
Act 4 of 1975
Published on 5 March 1975
Commenced on 5 March 1975
[This is the version of this document from 5 March 1975.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Bihar Development of Homeopathic System of Medicine (Validating) Act, 1974
Bihar Act
4 of 1975
Published in Bihar Gazette (Extraordinary) dated 5.3.1975.
An Act to validate certain examinations held by the University of Bihar in the Homeopathic System of Medicine and
matters incidental thereto:
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Bihar in the Twenty-fifth Year of the Republic of India as follows :-
1.
Short title.
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
Bihar Development of Homeopathic System of Medicine (Validating) Act, 1974
- This Act may be called the Bihar Development of Homeopathic System of Medicine (Validating) Act, 1974.
2.
Validation of certain actions taken by the University of Bihar in respect of Homeopathic System of Medicine.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in Sections 22, 31, 32, 35 and 49 of the Bihar Development of
Homeopathic System of Medicine Act, 1953 (Bihar Act XXIV of 1953), examinations for degrees, diplomas or certificates
in Homeopathic System of Medicine conducted by the University of Bihar, or degrees, diplomas or certificates conferred,
issued or granted by the said University on the basis of such examinations, or fees for the same realised by the said
University, between the tenth of April, 1973 and the commencement of this Act, shall be deemed to have been validly
conducted, conferred, issued, granted or realised, as the case may be, and the validity of any such action taken by the
said University shall not be called in question in any court or proceeding whatsoever merely on the ground that the said
University was not properly authorised or empowered and the holders of such degrees, diplomas or certificates shall be
entitled to registration under the provisions of the said Act or to appear at the next higher examination to be conducted
by the Board, as the case may be, in accordance with the provisions of the said Act.
(2)
Any examination conducted by the University of Bihar as mentioned in sub-section (1) shall for purposes of the said Act
be deemed to be examination conducted by the Board and any degrees, diplomas or certificates conferred, issued or
granted by the said University on the basis of such examinations shall be deemed to be degrees, diplomas or
certificates conferred, issued or granted by the Board.
3.
Repeal and Saving.
(1)
The Bihar Development of Homeopathic System of Medicine (Validating) Ordinance, 1974 (Bihar Ordinance No. 179 of
1974) is hereby repealed.
(2)
Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken in exercise of any power, conferred by or under the said
Ordinance shall be deemed to have been done or taken in exercise of powers conferred by or under this Act, as if this
Act, were in force on the day on which such thing was done or action was taken.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2