
----- PAGE 1 -----
Legal Aid Committee for Patna High Court
Legal Aid Committee for Patna High Court
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/92930250/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Bihar - Act
Legal Aid Committee for Patna High Court
BIHAR
India
Legal Aid Committee for Patna High Court
Rule LEGAL-AID-COMMITTEE-FOR-PATNA-HIGH-COURT of 1975
Published on 29 October 1975
Commenced on 29 October 1975
[This is the version of this document from 29 October 1975.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Legal Aid Committee for Patna High Court
Published vide  Bihar Notification No. L. G. 703/75 (Part)-Leg-1501-Resolution, dated the 29th October, 1975, Bihar
Gazette, Supplementary, dated 3rd December, 1975 at page 1031
The Bihar Notification No. L. G. 703/75 (Part)-Leg-1501-Resolution, dated the 29th October, 1975. - The State
Government have been pleased to constitute a Committee to be known as the "Legal Aid Committee for the Patna High
Court". The Committee shall consist of the following members:
Shri Ram Ratan Singh, Retired Judge, High Court, Patna....President.
Shri Jaya Narayan, M.L.A., Advocate, High Court, Patna...Executive Chairman
Members
(1) President, Bihar State Bar Council.
(2) Shri Tarakant Jha, Government Advocate, High Court, Patna.
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
Legal Aid Committee for Patna High Court
(3) Shri Ram Jatan Singh, Advocate, Ex-Public Prosecutor, Patna.
(4) Shri Braj Kishore Prasad, Advocate, Patna.
(5) Shri Daman Kant Jna, Advocate, Patna.
(6) Shri Mahabir Choudhary, Advocate, Patna.
(7) Shri Seeta Sharan, Advocate, High Court, Patna.
(8) Smt. Sudharani Jaiswal, Advocate, High Court, Patna.
(9) Shri R. B. Bhagat, Advocate, High Court, Patna-Honorary Secretary.
2.
The object of the Legal Aid Committee for Patna High Court will be to run Legal Aid Committee at Patna and Ranchi in
respect of appeal, revision and writ matters, etc., arising in the High Court at Patna and in Ranchi Bench. The Legal Aid
Centres for the High Court at Patna and Ranchi shall be run in accordance with the guidelines and policy laid down by
the State Government from time to time.
3.
The office of the Legal Aid Committee of the Patna High Court may be located in the Law Chamber of the Executive
Chairman till such times an independent office is feasible.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2