
----- PAGE 1 -----
Bihar College Service Commission Act, 1976
Bihar College Service Commission Act, 1976
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/36068405/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
49
]
State of Bihar - Act
Bihar College Service Commission Act, 1976
BIHAR
India
Bihar College Service Commission Act, 1976
Act 26 of 1976
Published on 26 February 1977
Commenced on 26 February 1977
[This is the version of this document from 26 February 1977.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Bihar College Service Commission Act, 1976
Bihar Act
26 of 1976
[Assented to on 31.12.76, and published in Bihar Gazette (Extraordinary) dated 26.2.1977.]
An Act to establish a [College Service Commission]
[Substituted by Act 30 of 1982, (24.1.1982).]
for the appointment of Teachers of the [Affiliated Colleges and Intermediate Colleges]
[Substituted by Act 30 of 1982, (24.1.1982)]
in the State of Bihar.
[Explanation.
[This Explanation is the Part of Act 30 of 1982.]
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
Bihar College Service Commission Act, 1976
- (1) An affiliated college means any college which is admitted to the privileges of the Bihar State Universities Act and
imparts instructions up to degree standard.
(2) An intermediate college means a college which imparts instruction up to intermediate standard and the intermediate
section of a degree college in which instruction is imparted up to intermediate standard.
(3) A constituent college means a degree college which is maintained or controlled by a University and imparts
instruction up to degree or post-graduate standard].
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Bihar in the Twenty-seventh Year of the Republic of India as follows :-
1.
Short title and commencement.
- [(1) This Act may be called the Bihar College Service Commission Act, 1976]
[This Explanation is the Part of Act 30 of 1982.]
.
(2)
It shall come into force at once.
2.
Establishment of a [College Service Commission]
[Substituted by Act 30 of 1982, (24.1.1982)]
for the appointment of teachers of the teachers of the [Affiliated Colleges and Intermediate Colleges]
[Substituted by Act 30 of 1982, (24.1.1982).]
and its powers and functions.
(1)
With effect from such date as the State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint, there shall be
established a Commission to be called the Bihar [College Service Commission]
[This Explanation is the Part of Act 30 of 1982.]
(hereinafter referred to as the said Commission).
(2)
The said Commission shall be a body corporate having perpetual succession and a common seal, and shall by the said
name sue and be sued.
(3)
[ The Commission shall consist of a Chairman and six other members reputed for their scholarship. Out of the six
members one shall belong to the Scheduled Caste and Another to the Scheduled Tribe. The Chairman and the
members shall be appointed by the State Government and they shall be whole time officers. They shall hold office
during the pleasure of the State Government for a term not exceeding three years and they may be reappointed for one
more term which shall not exceed three years during the pleasure of the State Government. The term of appointment of
the Chairman or any member shall be deemed to have terminated on completion of 62 years of age. The Chairman or
any member may tender resignation through a letter addressed to the State Government:
Provided that in case of absence of one or more members on leave or otherwise, the remaining member or members,
as the case may be, shall constitute the Commission.
Explanation. -  No person shall be deemed qualified for membership of the Commission unless he has teaching
experience of ten years in any University or College and in the opinion of the State Government, he is reputed for his
scholarship and academic interest. But the State Government may relax the above qualifications in the case of members
of the Scheduled Tribes and the Harijans.]
[Substituted by Act 30 of 1982, (24.1.1982).]
(4)
There shall be a Secretary of the Commission who shall also be a whole time officer to be appointed by the State
Government.
(5)
Other terms and conditions of service of the Chairman, members and the Secretary shall be determined by the State
Government.
(6)
The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make rules not inconsistent with the other provisions
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
Bihar College Service Commission Act, 1976
of this Act for the smooth working of the Commission.
(7)
Subject to the approval of the University, appointments, dismissals, removals, termination of service or reduction in rank
of teachers of [Affiliated colleges and Intermediate colleges]
[Substituted by Act 30 of 1982. (24.1.1982).]
shall be made by the Governing Body of the college on the recommendation of the Commission.
(8)
In making recommendations for appointment to every post of teacher of any [Affiliated college and Intermediate
colleges]
[Substituted by Act 30 of 1982. (24.1.1982).]
the Commission shall have the assistance of such experts and shall be governed by such conditions as have been laid
down in Section 57 of the Bihar State Universities Act, 1976 in this behalf.
(9)
The Commission shall recommend for appointment to every post of teacher names of two persons arranged in order of
preference and considered by the Commission to be the best qualified therefor. The recommendation shall be valid for
one year from the date of the recommendation by the Commission.
(10)
In making any such appointment the Governing Body of the College shall, within three months from the date of the
receipt of the recommendation under sub-section (9), make its selection out of the names recommended by the
Commission, and in no case shall Governing Body appoint a person who is not recommended by the Commission.
(11)
[Omitted by Act 14 of 1996.]
(12)
The Commission shall be consulted by the Governing Body of a College in all disciplinary matters affecting a teacher of
the college and no memorials or petitions relating to such matters shall be disposed of, nor shall any action be taken
against, or any punishment imposed on, a teacher of the college otherwise than in conformity with the findings of the
Commission:
Provided that it shall not be necessary to consult the Commission where only an order of censure, or an order
withholding increment, including stoppage at an efficiency bar, or an order of suspension pending investigation of charge
is passed against a teacher of a college.
(13)
It shall be the duty of the Commission to present annually to the University a report as to the work done by the
Commission in relation to teachers of the [Affiliated colleges & Intermediate College]
[Substituted by Act 30 of 1982.]
and a copy of the report shall be placed before the Senate at its next meeting and the University shall further prepare
and submit to the State Government a memorandum explaining, as respect the cases, if any, where the advice of the
Commission was not accepted, the reasons for such non-acceptance, and the State Government shall cause the same
to be laid before the Legislature of the State:
[Provided that the Commission shall send annually to the Chairman of the Intermediate Education Council a report as to
the work done in relation to teachers of every intermediate college and the Chairman shall submit it before the next
meeting of the Council and the Chairman shall forward to the State Government where a memorandum explaining the
reasons for non-acceptance, where the recommendation of the Commission has not been accepted and the State
Government shall cause the same to be laid before the Legislature of the State.]
[Inserted by Act 30 of 1982.]
(14)
[Omitted by Act 30 of 1982 (24.1.1982)]
3.
Repeal and Savings.
(a)
The Bihar University Service Commission Second Ordinance, 1976 (Bihar Ordinance No. 170 of 1976), is hereby
repealed.
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
Bihar College Service Commission Act, 1976
(b)
Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken in exercise of any powers conferred by or under the
said Ordinance shall be deemed to have been done or taken in the exercise of the powers conferred by or under this Act
as if this Act were in force on the day on which thing or action was done or taken.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4