
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Bihar Application of State Laws to Transferred Territories Act, 1976
The Bihar Application of State Laws to Transferred Territories Act,
1976
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/3989607/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Bihar - Act
The Bihar Application of State Laws to Transferred Territories Act, 1976
BIHAR
India
The Bihar Application of State Laws to Transferred Territories Act, 1976
Act 9 of 1977
Published on 1 January 1977
Commenced on 1 January 1977
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 1977.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Bihar Application of State Laws to Transferred Territories Act, 1976
(Bihar Act
9 of 1977
)
Received assent on 10.1.1977 and published in Bihar Gazette, Extraordinary dated January 22, 1977.
An Act to provide for the application of the laws of the State of Bihar as applicable to the districts of Bhojpur, Saran and
Siwan to the territories transferred to the State of Bihar under the provision of the Bihar and Uttar Pradesh (Alteration of
Boundaries) Act, 1968 and for matters connected therewith or ancillary or incidental thereto.
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Bihar in the Twenty-seventh year of Republic of India as follows:-
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Bihar Application of State Laws to Transferred Territories Act, 1976
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
This Act may be called the Bihar application of State Laws to Transferred Territories Act, 1976.
(2)
It shall come into force at once.
2.
Bihar Laws to apply to territories transferred to the State of Bihar.
- All laws of the State of Bihar in force in the districts of Bhojpur, Saran and Siwan whether made before or after the date
of transfer of the territories to the State of Bihar by the Bihar and Uttar Pradesh (Alteration of Boundaries) Act, 1968 (Act
24 of 1968) (hereinafter referred to as the said Act) shall apply to the territories so transferred and laws of the State of
Uttar Pradesh shall cease to be applicable to the said territories.
3.
Savings.
(1)
Nothing contained in Section 2 shall affect-
(a)
the previous operation of any law of Uttar Pradesh in the transferred territories: or
(b)
any penalty or punishment imposed or forfeiture incurred in respect of any offence committed against any such law; or
(c)
any investigation, legal proceeding or remedy in respect of any such penalty, punishment or forfeiture;
and any such investigation, legal proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced and any such penalty
or punishment or forfeiture may be imposed as if this Act had not been enacted.
(2)
Subject to the provisions of sub-section (1) anything done or any action taken, including any appointment or delegation
made, notification, order, instruction or direction issued, rule, regulation, form, bye-law or scheme framed, certificate,
patent, permit or licence granted or registration effected under such corresponding law shall be deemed to have been
done or taken under the corresponding provisions of the law as now extended to, and in force in the said transferred
territories and shall continue in force accordingly until superseded by anything done or any action taken under the said
law.
4.
Repeal and Saving.
(1)
The Bihar Application of State Laws to Transferred Territories Third Ordinance, 1976 (Bihar Ordinance No. 205 of 1976)
and Bihar Application of State Laws to Transferred Territories (Amendment) Ordinance, 1976 (Bihar Ordinance No. 210
of 1976) are hereby repealed.
(2)
Notwithstanding such repeal anything done or any action taken in the exercise of any power conferred by or under the
said Ordinance shall be deemed to have been done or taken in the exercise of the powers conferred by or under this
Act, as if this Act were in force on the day on which such thing or action was done or taken.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2