
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Bihar Development of Homeopathic System of Medicine (Payment of Allowances) Rules, 198...
The Bihar Development of Homeopathic System of Medicine
(Payment of Allowances) Rules, 1982
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/123566319/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Bihar - Act
The Bihar Development of Homeopathic System of Medicine (Payment of Allowances) Rules, 1982
BIHAR
India
The Bihar Development of Homeopathic System of Medicine (Payment of Allowances) Rules, 1982
Rule
THE-BIHAR-DEVELOPMENT-OF-HOMEOPATHIC-SYSTEM-OF-MEDICINE-PAYMENT-OF-ALLOWANCES-RULES-1
982 of 1982
Published on 19 June 1982
Commenced on 19 June 1982
[This is the version of this document from 19 June 1982.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Bihar Development of Homeopathic System of Medicine (Payment of Allowances) Rules, 1982
Published vide Notification No. S.O. 973 dated the 19th June, 1982 in Bihar Gazette (Extraordinary) No. 582, dated
19.6.1982
S.O. 973 dated the 19th June, 1982. - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section (2) of Section 53
and Section 12 of the Bihar Development of Homeopathic System of Medicine Act, 1953, (Bihar Act XXIV of 1953) the
Governor of Bihar is pleased to make the following Rules, namely :-
1.
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Bihar Development of Homeopathic System of Medicine (Payment of Allowances) Rules, 198...
These Rules may be called the Bihar Development of Homeopathic System of Medicine (Payment of Allowances) Rules,
1982.
2.
The President of the Homeopathic Board shall be entitled to the following facilities:-
(a)
The President shall be provided with a personal Assistant or a Stenographer Class I or a Steno Typist and two orderly
peons.
(b)
The President shall be provided with a rent free quarters and in case of non-availability of quarters, a house on hire shall
be made available to him provided the rate of house rent does not exceed Rs. 500 (Five hundred) per month. But in
case a house on hire is not available within the prescribed limit of house rent, in that case, the Board in special case
shall refer the aforesaid limit of house rent for the previous approval of the State Government.
(c)
The President shall be paid Rs. 30 (Thirty) as honoraium on each day he attends the office of the Board in connection
with the Board's work. But in case the President is a member of the Assembly or Council and for the days he has been
paid daily allowance from the house as a member of the House, he shall not be paid honorarium for these days from the
Board.
(d)
The President shall be paid travelling and daily allowances equivalent to admissible travelling and daily allowance of the
highest officer of the State Government for the journey within the State. But for the journey outside the State, the
President shall be entitled to if available Government rest house, etc., daily allowance prescribed for the highest officer
of the Government of India. But for the expensive cities such as Calcutta, Bombay where no Government rest-house is
available and accommodation has to be made in a hotel, in that case daily allowance at a maximum rate of Rs. 50 (Rs.
Fifty) per day prescribed for the highest officer of Government of India for accommodation in those places shall be paid
to him.
(e)
The President shall be paid conveyance allowance at the maximum rate of Rs. 200 (two hundred) per month for the
journey performed by his own car within the radius of 8 k.m. from the headquarter in connection with the Board's work.
But if he uses the Board's staff car for the same he shall have to pay the charge thereof himself.
(f)
The Hon'ble President shall be paid mileage allowance at the rate of mileage charge admissible to Class I Officer of the
State Government if he undertakes the journey beyond the radius of 8 k.m. in connection with Board's work by his own
car. But if he undertakes the journey by the Board's car, in that case he shall not be entitled to any mileage allowance.
(g)
The President shall be provided with the telephone facilities at residence as well as in office.
(h)
The President shall be entitled to medical facilities at par with the medical facilities admissible to Class I officers of the
State Government.
3.
The payment of travelling and halting allowances will generally be regulated in accordance with the Bihar Travelling
Allowance Rules, as amended from time to time.
4.
Rules made in this behalf previously shall deem to have been cancelled.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2