
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Bihar Lokayukta (Condition of Service) Rules, 1974
The Bihar Lokayukta (Condition of Service) Rules, 1974
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/155867400/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Bihar - Act
The Bihar Lokayukta (Condition of Service) Rules, 1974
BIHAR
India
The Bihar Lokayukta (Condition of Service) Rules, 1974
Rule THE-BIHAR-LOKAYUKTA-CONDITION-OF-SERVICE-RULES-1974 of 1974
Published on 24 March 1988
Commenced on 24 March 1988
[This is the version of this document from 24 March 1988.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Bihar Lokayukta (Condition of Service) Rules, 1974
Part I ? Preliminary
1.
These Rules may be called the Bihar Lokayukta (Conditions of Service) Rules, 1974.
2.
Definitions.
- In these Rules unless the context otherwise requires-
(a)
"Actual service" includes-
(i)
time spent by the Lokayukta on duty;
Page 1/9
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Bihar Lokayukta (Condition of Service) Rules, 1974
(ii)
joining time or transfer to the office of Lokayukta from a post or a office under the Government of India or a State
Government;
(b)
"Family" means-
(i)
the wife or husband of the Lokayukta; and
(ii)
the parents, legitimate children and step-children of the Lokayukta, wholly dependent upon him;
(c)
"Government" means the Government of India or a State Government;
(d)
"Government Servant" means a person who before his appointment as Lokayukta, was in the service of the Government
of India or of a State Government;
(e)
"Governor" means the Governor of Bihar;
(f)
"Hospital" means a Government hospital and includes a hospital maintained by a local authority and any other hospital
with which arrangements have been made by Government for the treatment of its officers;
(g)
"Parent service" means in relation to a Government servant appointed as Lokayukta, the service under which he was
employed before his appointment as Lokayukta;
(h)
"Pension" means a pension of any kind payable to the Lokayukta, and includes any gratuity or other sum or sums so
payable by way of death or retirement benefits;
(i)
"Prescribed" means prescribed under these Rules;
(j)
"Service for pension" includes-
(i)
actual service;
(ii)
forty-five days, or the number of days actually availed of, whichever is less, at each period of leave, or full allowances;
(iii)
joining time or return from leave outside India; and
(iv)
any period which may be added to the service for pension of the Lokayukta;
(v)
"Service pension" means the pension granted to a Government servant appointed as Lokayukta under the Rules of the
Parent service and signified the gross amount of such pension prior to communication and includes the pension
equivalent of service gratuity.
Part II ? Retirement of a Government Servant on Appointment as Lokayukta
3.
A Lokayukta who, immediately before the date of his appointment as such, was a Government Servant, shall be deemed
to have retired from parent service with effect from the date of his appointment as Lokayukta.
Part III ? Leave
4.
A Government Servant appointed as Lokayukta while in service, may be permitted to carry forward all the leave earned
by him in the parent service, to be availed of by him during the tenure of his office as Lokayukta. Subject to this, the
calculation of leave admissible to the Lokayukta will be done in accordance with Rule 5.
5.
Page 2/9
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Bihar Lokayukta (Condition of Service) Rules, 1974
(1)
The Lokayukta may be granted leave as follows:-
(a)
earned leave, on full allowance, up to 1/11th period spent on duty subject to a maximum of four months at any onetime;
(b)
leave on medical certificate, on half the allowance admissible on earned leave, subject to maximum of three months at
any one time.
(c)
extraordinary leave without allowance, subject to a maximum of three months at any one time.
Explanation. - (1) All or any two of these kinds of leave may be granted in combination, at one time.
(2)
The Lokayukta may in addition to any leave salary he may be entitled to under sub-rule (1), draw the service pension.
(3)
The Lokayukta appointed under Section 3 of the Bihar Lokayukta Act, 1973 (Bihar Act VI of 1974), on ceasing to hold
office after completing his full term of five years as provided in sub-section (i) of Section 5 of the Act, shall be entitled to
the cash equivalent of leave salary in respect of the period of earned leave to his credit on the date he ceases to hold
office subject to maximum period of 180 (one hundred eighty) days.
*(4) [Deleted vide G.S.R No. 10, dated 24th March, 1988].
6.
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub
- rule (i) of Rule 5, the Lokayukta may be permitted to Commute leave on half allowances into leave on full allowance:
on medical certificate upto a maximum of three months during the whole period o his service as Lokayukta.
7.
Special disability leave.
- The Rules prescribed in the All-India Service (Special Disability leave) Regulation, 1957, in respect of a member of the
All-India Service, who may be disabled by injury caused in, or in consequence of his official duties, or in consequence of
his official position, shall apply in relation to the Lokayukta.
8.
Consequence of over
- staying leave. - If the Lokayukta overstays his leave, he shall receive no salary for the period of his absence in excess
of leave granted to him:
Provided that if such leave is due to circumstances beyond his control, the period thereof may be treated as leave and
may be debited to his leave account.
9.
Authority competent to grant leave, etc.
- The Authority competent t< grant or refuse leave to the Lokayukta, or revoke or curtail leave granted to hirr shall be the
Governor.
Part IV ? Pension
10.
Pension payable to the Lokayukta.
- Subject to the provisions of these Rules, the Lokayukta shall, on his retirement or ceasing to hold office, be paid
pension:
Provided that no such pension shall be payable to the Lokayukta-
(a)
unless he has completed not less than three years of service for pension, or
(b)
if he has been removed from service; or
(c)
if he has resigned, unless he has completed three years of service c more for pension, and such resignation is accepted
by the Governor
Provided further that if the Lokayukta, at the time of his appointment is receipt of a service pension (other than a
Page 3/9
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Bihar Lokayukta (Condition of Service) Rules, 1974
disability or wound pension), the pension payable under those Rules shall be in lieu of and not in addition to, that
pension:
Provided further that if the Lokayukta, at the time of his appointment, is receipt of a service pension, he shall count his
service as Lokayukta for pension and retirement benefits under the Rules applicable to the service to which belonged
before such appointment.
(Inserted vide G.S.R.No. 10 dated the 24th March 1988)
11.
Special provision for pension in respect of the Lokayukta who has held any pensionable civil post under Government.
- The Lokayukta, who immediately before his appointment as such, was in the service of Government, shall at his
option, to be exercised within a period of six months from the date of his appointment, or the publication of those rules,
be entitled to draw his service pension and other retirement benefits occurring therefrom, if he had not been appointed
Lokayukta:
Provided that every such person shall count his service as Lokayukta for pension and retirement benefits under the rules
applicable to the service to which he belongs immediately before such appointment.
12.
(1)
The basic pension to which a Lokayukta who has not held any other pensionable civil post under Government, or,
having held any other pensionable civil post under Government has not exercised his option under Rule II to draw his
pension and other retirement benefits under the ordinary Rules of his parent service, shall be-
(a)
[ The pension for first three completed years shall be payable @ Rs. 15000/- (Rupees fifteen thousand) per annum; and]
[Substituted vide Notification No. 8/Lok-5-07/2005-Ka 1472, dated 9.2.2007.]
(b)
Thereafter, for each succeeding completed year of the service an additional amount of Rs. 3000/- (Rupees three
thousand) shall be payable for pension."
(2)
[ The Lokayukta, who is qualified for basic pension under this part, shall be entitled for additional pension Rs. 2220/-
(Rupees two thousand two hundred and twenty) per annum for each completed year of the service."]
[Substituted vide Notification No. 8/Lok-5-07/2005-Ka 1472, dated 9.2.2007.]
13.
Power of Governor to add to the service for pension.
- The Governor may for special reasons direct that any period not exceeding three months, shall be added to the service
for pension of a Lokayuka:
Provided that the period so added shall be disregarded in calculating any additional pension.
14.
Where a Lokayukta, who has exercised his option to receive service pension, dies, whether before or after retirement, a
family pension shall be payable to the person or persons entitled thereto under the ordinary Rules of his parent service,
if he had not been appointed Lokayukta, his service, as Lokayukta being treated as service therein for the purpose of
calculating that family pension.
15.
The pension payable under Rule 11 shall not be commuted, but the pension under Rule 12 may be commuted.
16.
Authority competent to grant pension.
- The authority competent to grant a pension to the Lokayukta shall be the Governor.
Part V ? Miscellaneous
17.
Facilities for medical treatment and other conditions of service.
- The Lokayukta and the members of his family shall be entitled to the facilities for medical treatment and for
accommodation in hospital, as admissible to a member of the Indian Administrative Service holding the rank of
Secretary to Government under the All India Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1954.
17A.
Page 4/9
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Bihar Lokayukta (Condition of Service) Rules, 1974
Allowance admissible to Lokayukta.
- With effect from 1st December 1978, there shall be paid to the Lokayukta in respect of time spent on actual service
dearness allowance and additional dearness allowance at the rates admissible to the Chief Justice of the Patna High
Court.
(Inserted vide OM/L2-011/82/284-0/dated Patna 27th August 1982)
17B.
All other allowances and interim relief payable to, and all other conditions of service of Lokayukta for which there is no
specific provision in these Rules or any other rules, shall be the same as sanctioned by the Governor from time to time
under this provision.
(Inserted vide G.S.R. No- 10,dated the 24th March 1988)
18.
Provident Fund.
- The Lokayukta shall be entitled to subscribe to the General Provident fund, in accordance with the Rules regulating
that fund:
Provided that a Lokayukta, who immediately before appointment as such, has held any pensionable civil post under the
Government of India or a State Government, shall continue to subscribe to the Provident Fund to which he was
subscribing before his appointment as Lokayukta.
19.
House building advance and motor car advance.
- The grant of a house building advance and advance for purchase of motor car to the Loakyukta shall be regulated by
the appropriate Rules in force, applicable to the Government servants drawing comparable emoluments.
Part VI ? 20. Composition of establishment.
- There shall be a separate establishment of the Lokayukta, with separate budget allotments, in which there shall be a
Secretary to Lokayukta, and such other Gazetted and Non-Gazetted staff as the Governor may, from time to time
determine in consultation with the Lokayukata.
21.
Secretary to Lokayukta.
(1)
The Secretary to Lokayukta shall be appointed by Lokayukta.
(2)
The Secretary shall be drawn from the Indian Administrative Service permanently allotted to the State Cadre, drawing
pay in the senior scale or the super time scale of the service, or the State Superior judicial Service, and shall receive the
pay which he would have drawn but for his appointment as Secretary.
(3)
The Secretary shall hold office for a period as may be decided by the Government in consultation with he Lokayukta and
may be recalled earlier if need be, after consultation with the Lokayukata.
22.
Other conditions of service of the Secretary.
- In respect of all other matters the conditions of service of the Secretary shall be as are applicable either to a member of
the Indian Administrative Service or the State Superior Judicial Sen/ice according as the incumbent withdrawn from
either to these services.
23.
Other Gazetted Officer, Ministerial Officers and inferior servants.
- The other Gazetted Officers, the Ministerial Officers and the class IV staff in the Establishment shall be appointed by
the Lokayukta:
Provided that the Lokayukta may, by general or special order, delegate to the Secretary or any other officer or the
establishment the power to make appointment to a post or a class of posts in class III or class IV specified in such order.
24.
Method of recruitment of the subordinate staff.
(1)
Subject to the provisions of sub-rules (1) and (2) of Rule 21, recruitment to a post or a class of posts in the
Page 5/9
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Bihar Lokayukta (Condition of Service) Rules, 1974
establishment may be made by any one of following methods, namely:-
(a)
by promotion of a person employed in the establishment; or
(b)
by permanent transfer or deputation of a person serving outside the establishment in connection with the affairs of the
Union or this State; or
(c)
by direct recruitment for ad-hoc purposes.
(2)
Subject to the provisions of sub-rule (2) of Rule 21, the Lokayukta may by order from time to time-
(a)
specify the method or methods by which a post or a class of posts may be filled;
(b)
determine the proportion of vacancies to be filled by each method, and
(c)
in case of recruitment by promotion specify the class of officers whom and the conditions subject to which they shall be
eligible for such promotion:
Provided that appointments to the posts in class I, except that of Secretary and class II of the establishment by
promotion or transfer or direct recruitment shall be made only after consultation with the Bihar Public Service
Commission:
Provided further in the case of a temporary or officiating appointment by promotion or transfer or direct recruitment to a
post in classes I and II for a period not exceeding six months consultation with the Commission shall not be necessary,
unless the appointment is likely to continue for a period exceeding six months:
Provided further that for appointment to a post of Section Officer or Senior Personal Assistant it shall not be necessary
to consult the Commission.
25.
Head of Office.
- The Secretary shall be the head of the office of the Lokayukta and he shall properly maintain all the proceedings and
records of the office and secrecy relating thereto.
26.
Powers to utilize the Services of any officers or investigation agency of the State Government.
(1)
The Lokayukta may, for the purpose of conducting investigation under the Act, send requisition for the services of any
officer or investigation agency of the State Government to the Head of the Department or office concerned and it shall
be complied with unless the Governor decided that the services of the said officer or agency can not be placed under
the disposal of the Lokayukta without detriment to the affairs of the State.
(2)
If the Lokayukta consider it necessary or expedient he may consult an expert or any other agency for examination of a
specific case or category of cases.
27.
Remuneration, honorarium and special pay.
- There shall be paid to the officer or officers, whose services are utilized under Rule 26, such remuneration, honorarium
or special pay as the Lokayukta may deem proper and reasonable:
Provided that no order sanctioning such remuneration, honorarium or special pay shall be issued except after
consultation with the Finance Department:
Provided further that sanction of remuneration and honorarium up to a limit of Rs. 100 per individual and total
expenditure up to a limit of Rs. 1,500 per year on this account will not require prior consultation with the Finance
Department.
28.
Probation.
- Every, person appointed to a permanent post in any class, other than class I, by direct recruitment with a view to his
Page 6/9
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Bihar Lokayukta (Condition of Service) Rules, 1974
eventual substantive appointment to that post shall be on probation for a period of two years:
Provided that the Lokayukta or Secretary or any other officer to whom powers is delegated under Rule 23 may, by order,
extend or reduce the period of probation in the case of any person appointed to any post specified in such order.
29.
Pay.
- The scales of pay of the Gazetted Officers, other than Secretary, the Ministerial Officers and the class IV staff of the
establishment shall be the same as those prescribed for the corresponding personnel in the State Secretariat and if they
are drawn from the State Secretariat, they shall receive the pay which they would have drawn but for their appointment
on the staff of the Lokayukta.
30.
Other conditions of service.
- In respect of other matters regulating the conditions of service of the members of the establishment for which no
specific provision has been made in these Rules, the members of the establishment shall be governed by such Rules,
orders or directions as are applicable to the officers of the corresponding rank in the Bihar Civil Secretariat, subject to
such modifications, variations or exceptions if any in such Rules, orders or directions as may, after consultation with the
Finance Department, by order from time to time, be specified.
31.
Control and discipline.
- All officers and staff in the establishment shall be subject to the superintendence and control of the Lokayukta.
32.
Penalties.
- The following penalties may, for good and sufficient reasons, be imposed on any member of the establishment,
namely:-
(1)
censure;
(2)
withholding of increments or promotion;
(3)
reduction to a lower post on time-scale or lower stage in a time-scale;
(4)
recovery from pay of the whole or part of any pecuniary loss caused to the Union or State by negligence or breach of
orders;
(5)
compulsory retirement;
(6)
removal from service in the establishment which shall not disqualify from future employment under the Government;
(7)
dismissal from service in the establishment which shall ordinarily disqualify from future employment under the
Government, and
(8)
fine.
Explanation. - (1) The termination of employment of a member of the establishment during or at the end of the period of
probation does not amount to removal or dismissal within the meaning of this Rule.
(2)
The stoppage of a member of the establishment at the efficiency bar in the time-scale of his pay on the ground of his
unfitness to cross the bar does not amount to withholding of increment of promotion within the meaning of this Rules.
(3)
A refusal to promote a member of the establishment after due consideration of his case, to a post or grade to which
promotions are made by selection, does not amount to withholding of promotion within the meaning of this Rule.
(4)
The reversion to a lower post of a member of the establishment who is officiating in a higher post, after a trial in the
Page 7/9
----- PAGE 8 -----
The Bihar Lokayukta (Condition of Service) Rules, 1974
higher post or for administrative reasons (such as the return of the permanent incumbent from leave or deputation,
availability of a more suitable person, an the like does not amount to reduction in rank within the meaning of this Rule.
(5)
Compulsory retirement of a member of the establishment in accordance with the provisions relating to his
superannuation or retirement does not amount of penalty within the meaning of this Rule.
(6)
The withholding of increment for failure to pass departmental examinations does not amount to withholding of increment
within the meaning of this Rule.
(7)
Punishment of fine may be inflicted only on a member of class IV staff.
Note. - (1) Before an order imposing the following penalties can be passed, the procedure laid down under Rule 55 of
the Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules shall be followed:-
(i)
Dismissal;
(ii)
Removal;
(iii)
Compulsory retirement, or
(iv)
Reduction in rank.
Note. - (2) For the procedure to be followed before an order imposing the following penalties can be passed [See Rule
35A of the Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal] Rules:
(i)
Censure;
(ii)
Withholding of increment or promotion including stoppage at efficiency bar;
(iii)
Recovery from pay of the whole or part of any pecuniary loss caused to Government by negligence or breach of order.
33.
Punishing authority.
- Subject to the provisions of Article 311 of the Constitution, the Lokayukta shall have the power to impose any of the
penalties specified in Rule 32 on any member of the establishment in respect of whom he is the appointing authority:
Provided that the Lokayukta may subject to the delegation of power that he may make in regard to appointments under
Rule 23, delegate to the Secretary or any other officer of the establishment, the power to impose any of the said
penalties on any member of class III or class IV staff of the establishment.
34.
Disciplinary action against an officer on deputation to establishment.
- If in the case of an officer or any other member of the establishment on deputation to it, the Lokayukta or any other
officer to whom power to impose penalty has been delegated under Rule 33 is, without prejudice to the provisions of the
foregoing Rules of opinion that any of the penalties referred to in Rule 32 should be imposed upon the said officer, all
the relevant papers connected with the disciplinary case shall be sent to the Parent Department office. Final orders in
the matter shall be passed in the parent department/office and a copy thereof shall be forwarded to the Lokayukta office.
35.
Appeal.
(1)
Every member of the establishment shall have a right to appeal to the Lokayukta against any order passed originally or
on appeal by the Secretary imposing or confirming any penalty specified in Rule 32:
Provided that where an order is passed originally by any officer subordinate to the Secretary on appeal against such an
order shall lie to the Secretary.
(2)
The order of the Lokayukta whether passed original or an appeal shall be final:
Page 8/9
----- PAGE 9 -----
The Bihar Lokayukta (Condition of Service) Rules, 1974
Provided that the Lokayukta may on his own motion or an application, received rescind any order passed by him under
this Rule.
Note. - In regard to construction on appeals or disposal thereof, the provisions of Rules 59, 61, 62, 63, 64 and 65 of the
Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules and Rule 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11 of the Bihar and Orissa
Subordinate Service Discipline and Appeal Rules, 1935 shall be followed.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 9/9