
----- PAGE 1 -----
Bihar Nurses Registration Council (Appointment and Condition of Service of Registrar) Regu...
Bihar Nurses Registration Council (Appointment and Condition of
Service of Registrar) Regulation
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/198749259/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Bihar - Act
Bihar Nurses Registration Council (Appointment and Condition of Service of Registrar) Regulation
BIHAR
India
Bihar Nurses Registration Council (Appointment and Condition of Service of Registrar) Regulation
Rule
BIHAR-NURSES-REGISTRATION-COUNCIL-APPOINTMENT-AND-CONDITION-OF-SERVICE-OF-REGISTRAR-REG
ULATION of 1992
Published on 1 April 1992
Commenced on 1 April 1992
[This is the version of this document from 1 April 1992.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Bihar Nurses Registration Council (Appointment and Condition of Service of Registrar) Regulation
Published vide Notification, No. 6/P12-02/92-108 (6) H. dated 1st April 1992
Health, Medical Education & Family Welfare Department, Notification, No. 6/P12-02/92-108 (6) H. The 1st April 1992. -
Regulation under Section 8(1) of the Bihar Nurses Registration Act, 1935 for appointment, duties, powers, suspension
and removal of Registrar as approved by the Government of Bihar on the recommendation of B.N.R.C.
1.
This Regulation may be called the Bihar Nurses Registration Council (Appointment and condition of service of Registrar)
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Bihar Nurses Registration Council (Appointment and Condition of Service of Registrar) Regu...
Regulation.
2.
In this Regulation unless the context otherwise requires-
(i)
"Act" means the Bihar Nurses Registration Act, 1935.
(ii)
"President" means the President of the Council constituted under section 3 of the Act.
(iii)
"Council" means council constituted under Section 3 of the Act.
(iv)
"Director" means the Director incharge of Health Services.
(v)
"Director-in-Chief" means the head of the Department of Health originally designated as Inspector-General of Civil
Hospitals.
(vi)
"Government" means the State Government of Bihar.
(vii)
"Registrar" means the Registrar appointed under Section 7 of the Act.
All other expressions not herein defined will have the same meaning as in the Act itself.
3.
There shall be a Registrar of the Council appointed by the Council under Section 7 of the Act.
Eligibility And Qualification of The Registrar
(i)
Shall be an Indian Citizen.
(ii)
Shall have passed Secondary School Examination or its equivalent.
(iii)
Shall be a registered Nurse/Registered Midwife, due weightage will be given as per Government of Bihar reservation
criteria.
(iv)
Shall have a minimum of 10 years experience in teaching in a Government Nursing School in a recognised Nursing
Institution/School/ Academy by whatever name called or administration in Nursing in Government Hospital or an
Institution recognised for the purpose by Government have at least a Diploma in Nursing Administration or Nursing
education or P.H.N. qualification.
(v)
Age shall be minimum of 35 years or above.
(vi)
The Registrar shall be paid salary at par the salary of senior matrons/ Senior Tutor/Principal Tutor/Senior PHN/Bihar
Services.
(vii)
Shall have no adverse remarks in Annual confidential report.
The post of Registrar shall be filled up by advertisement or invitation as the Director-in-Chief may direct for that purpose.
If it is decided to appoint by advertisement, the Council shall invite applications by open advertisement in two
newspapers published in Bihar. Any person in Government service imparting teaching or administrative job nurse may
apply for the post of Registrar. Application Form from such persons who are employed as above should be
accompanied by a "No Objection" Certification from the head of the Department or the Appointing Authority as the case
may be.
The Registrar shall ordinarily hold office for three years which may be extended for a further term of three years but not
beyond the age of 58 years.
The Government may recall its employee at any time for administrative reasons and the service of the Registrar will in
that case automatically be terminated.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Bihar Nurses Registration Council (Appointment and Condition of Service of Registrar) Regu...
Except as stated above, the Bihar Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules, 1935, the Bihar Government Conduct Rules,
the Bihar Board's Miscellaneous Rules and the Bihar Service Code shall mutatis mutandis apply to the case of the
Registrar as if they form part of this Regulation.
There shall be a Selection Committee consisting of the President and the entire Council members for appointment and
recommendation to the Council for such appointment any person found fit for the same.
In the event of the post being vacant, it shall be open to the Director-in-Chief to make temporary arrangement until a
Registrar is duly appointed.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3