
----- PAGE 1 -----
Bihar Agriculture Produce Market (Repealing) Act, 2006
Bihar Agriculture Produce Market (Repealing) Act, 2006
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/44281180/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
81
]
State of Bihar - Act
Bihar Agriculture Produce Market (Repealing) Act, 2006
BIHAR
India
Bihar Agriculture Produce Market (Repealing) Act, 2006
Act 23 of 2006
Published on 1 September 2006
Commenced on 1 September 2006
[This is the version of this document from 1 September 2006.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Bihar Agriculture Produce Market (Repealing) Act, 2006
Bihar Act
23 of 2006
Published in the Bihar Gazette (Extraordinary) dated 1.9.2006.
An Act to repeal The Bihar Agriculture Produce Market Act, 1960.
Be it enacted by this Legislature of the State of Bihar in the fifty seventh year of the Republic of India as follows:-
1.
Short Title, extent and commencement.
- (i) This Act shall be called Bihar Agriculture Produce Market (Repeal) Act, 2006.
(ii)
It shall extend to the whole of State of Bihar.
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
Bihar Agriculture Produce Market (Repealing) Act, 2006
(iii)
It shall come into force with immediate effect.
2.
Definitions.
- In this Act, unless context otherwise requires.
(i)
"Administrator" means, any officer appointed as such, who shall not be an officer below the rank and status of "District
Magistrate".
(ii)
"Act" means, Bihar Agriculture Produce Market Act, 1960.
(iii)
"Government" means, Government of Bihar.
(iv)
"Special Officer" means, any officer appointed as such who shall not be an officer below the rank and status of
"Sub-Divisional Magistrate".
(v)
"Board" means, Bihar State Agriculture Produce Marketing Board constituted under Bihar Agriculture Produce Market
Act, 1960.
(vi)
"Market Committee" or "Bazar Samiti" means, 'committee' or 'samiti' constituted under Bihar Agriculture Produce Market
Act, 1960.
3.
Repeal and savings.
- (i) Bihar Agriculture Produce Market Act, 1960 and Bihar Agriculture Produce Market Rules, 1975, framed thereunder,
as the Act and Rules exist on the date of coming into force of this Act shall stand repealed with effect from the date this
Act comes into force.
(ii)
Notwithstanding such repeal, any action taken or decision rendered shall be deemed to have been valid and shall not be
questioned on the ground of repeal of the Act:
Provided further that any proceeding including penal, assessment or for levy of market fee initiated under the Act shall
continue as if the Act still exists and such proceeding shall continue till it reaches its finality :
Provided further that proceeding referred to above shall lie before the 'Special Officer' at the initial stage and before the
'Administrator' at appellate stage, wherever appeal is provided under the Act:
Provided further that 'Special Officer' and 'Administrator' shall be deemed competent authority for the purpose of the Act
as if they were the authority designated to hear and conclude such proceeding.
Explanation: A proceedings shall be deemed to be initiated where a decision has been taken to initiate a proceeding or
where 'Special Officer' or 'Administrator forms an opinion on examination of records, that a proceeding for realization of
fee under the Act ought to have been initiated, which though, has not been initiated till repeal of the Act.
(iii)
All disciplinary proceedings against employees of the Board or against personnel serving on deputation, which has been
initiated on or before repeal of the Act shall continue and shall be considered by the disciplinary authority of the
Department of Government of Bihar, or Authority, Undertaking, Corporation or Company or such organization or place
where such employees are serving after repeal of the Act and for the purpose of proceeding it shall be considered as if
such personnel are within control, supervision and jurisdiction of the disciplinary authority where the personnel are
serving after repeal of the Act and it shall not be open to question jurisdiction of disciplinary authority.
Explanation: A proceeding shall be deemed to have been initiated if charges have been framed on or before repeal of
the Act and further that having regard to material and evidence in the possession of the Board or the Committee 'Special
Officer' or 'Administrator' comes to the conclusion that a proceeding ought to be initiated, such proceeding shall be
deemed to have been initiated as if the Act has not been repealed:
Provided further that if charges have not been framed on or before repeal of the Act it shall not be framed on expiry of
365 days from date of repeal excluding date of repeal.
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
Bihar Agriculture Produce Market (Repealing) Act, 2006
4.
Assets and liabilities of the Board to vest in the State Government.
(1)
On and from the date of coming into force of this Act, all assets, including moveable and immoveable owned, possessed
or otherwise claimed to belong to the Board or the committee or samiti shall vest in the State Government. All liabilities
including statutory and non-statutory, secured or unsecured shall be the liability of the State Government.
(ii)
Immediately after coming into force of this Act,'Administrator and Special Officer shall take possession of all the assets
immovable including land, building and such other assets which is owned or possessed by the Board or the committee
or over which Board or Committee has a legal claim.
'Administrator' or the 'Special Officer' as the case may be shall take custody of all moveable including liquid assets in
Banks, Post Office, or wherever it is kept, cash in hand etc. They shall take possession of other movable assets
including vehicles, equipments, plants, furnitures etc.
(iii)
Immovable and moveable assets in possession of 'Administrator' or 'Special Officer as the case may be shall remain in
their possession for and on behalf of State Government.
(iv)
Administrator shall be competent to issue such direction as is deemed necessary and expedient to secure safe
possession of immovable and movable assets and such direction shall be binding on the special officer and all others.
(v)
The State Government may issue such direction, order, instructions as is deemed necessary and expedient to maintain
security and safety of assets or to prevent any kind of injury, damage or dissipation of assets and such direction, order
or instruction shall be binding on all concerned including Administrator and Special Officer.
(vi)
All immovable assets of the Board or the Committee shall be utilized only for agriculture and farmer relating activities
including establishment of agro-processing industries, horticulture, agro-service, agricultural marketing, storage of
agricultural produce.
5.
Power of the State Government.
- The State Government shall have power, authority and jurisdiction to issue such direction, order or instructions as is
deemed expedient, to secure achieving object of this Act.
6.
Absorption of officers and employees of Bihar Agriculture Marketing Board/Market Committee/Bazar Samiti.
- (i) On and from the date of repeal of the Act, all officers and employees of the Board, shall remain in employment, as if
the Act has not been repealed and they shall continue to be paid same salary and allowances as was payable on the
date of repeal of the Act till such time State Government has taken such final decision as is provided hereafter.
(ii)
The State Government shall constitute a committee of Secretaries consisting of three Secretaries who shall prepare
detailed scheme of absorption, retirement, compulsory retirement or voluntary retirement, other service conditions of
officers and employees of the Board and the Committee. Scheme prepared by group of Secretaries shall be placed
before the State Government within two months from the date of enforcement of the present Act. The State Government
shall thereafter approve the scheme :
Provided that it shall be open to the State Government to modify, amend or suggest modification or amendment and the
scheme thereafter shall be made operational in such form and intent as finally approved by the State Government.
Scheme approved by the State Government shall be considered as statutory scheme framed under this Act.
(iii)
After the scheme approved by the State Government is enforced it shall be fully implemented in its form and intent within
three months from the date of its enforcement.
(iv)
Group of Secretaries constituted under Sub Section (ii) above shall be competent to decide utility and deployment of
officers and employees of the Board or the Committee during transition period and it shall not be open to any officer or
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
Bihar Agriculture Produce Market (Repealing) Act, 2006
employee to question decision of group of Secretaries.
(v)
Scheme framed under this Act shall have effect, notwithstanding any other Act, Ordinance, Rule, regulation, direction,
order or instruction and condition of service of officers and employees of the Board or the Committee, shall be governed
and regulated under the scheme to the extent provision has been made in the scheme :
Provided further that it shall be competent for the State Government to amend, modify, alter or substitute the scheme so
framed for removal of difficulties in implementation of the scheme.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4