
----- PAGE 1 -----
Bihar College Service Commission (Repeal) Act, 2007
Bihar College Service Commission (Repeal) Act, 2007
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/76811443/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
3
]
State of Bihar - Act
Bihar College Service Commission (Repeal) Act, 2007
BIHAR
India
Bihar College Service Commission (Repeal) Act, 2007
Rule BIHAR-COLLEGE-SERVICE-COMMISSION-REPEAL-ACT-2007 of 2007
Published on 13 April 2007
Commenced on 13 April 2007
[This is the version of this document from 13 April 2007.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Bihar College Service Commission (Repeal) Act, 2007
(Bihar Act 16 2007)
Assented by the Government of Bihar on 13th April, 2007 and published in Bihar Gazette on 19th April, 2007.
An Act to repeal the Bihar College Service Commission Act, 1976 (Bihar Act 26, 1976).
Preamble. -  Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Bihar in the Fifty eighth Year of the Republic of India as
follows:-
1.
Short title, extent and commencement.
(1)
This Act may be called the Bihar College Service Commission (Repeal) Act, 2007.
(2)
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Bihar College Service Commission (Repeal) Act, 2007
It shall extend to the whole of the State of Bihar.
(3)
It shall come into force at once.
2.
Definitions.
- In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context:
(a)
"Committee of Secretaries" means Committee of Secretaries constituted under sub-section (ii) of Section 4.
3.
Repeal of Bihar Act 26,1976.
- Bihar College Service Commission Act 1976 (Bihar Act 26, 1976) is hereby repealed.
4.
Adjustment of employee of Bihar College Service Commission
- (i) On and from the date of repeal of the Act, all employees of the Commission shall remain in employment as if the
Act, has not been repealed and they shall continue to be paid same salary and allowances as was payable on the date
of repeal of the Act, till such time State Government takes such final decision as provided hereinafter
(ii)
The State Government shall constitute a Committee of Secretaries consisting of three Secretaries to the State
Government. Who shall prepare e detailed scheme of absorption, retirement, compulsory retirement or voluntary
retirement, other service conditions of employees of the Commission. Scheme prepared by the Committee of
Secretaries shall be placed before the State Government within three months from the date of enforcement of the
present Act for its approval.
It shall be open to the State Government to modify, amend or suggest modification or amendment in the scheme and
the scheme thereafter shall be made operational in such form and intent as finally approved by the State Government.
The scheme approved by the State Government shall be considered as statutory scheme framed under this Act.
(iii)
After the scheme approved by the State Government is enforced it shall be fully implemented in its form and intent within
three months from the date of its enforcement.
(iv)
The Committee of Secretaries constituted under Sub-Section (ii) above shall be competent to decide utility and
deployment of employees of the Commission during transit period and it shall not be open to any employee to question
decision of the Committees of Secretaries:
Provided that the State Government shall be competent to amend, modify, alter or substitute the scheme so framed for
removal of the difficulties in implementation of the scheme.
5.
Assets and liabilities.
- All the assets and properties of Bihar College Service Commission whether movable or immovable including lands,
building, stores, vehicle, books, cash balance, reserve fund, investments, furniture and others shall stand transferred
and vested on and be deemed to have come into the possession of the State Government and all the liabilities and
obligations of the Commission under any agreement or contract entered into bona fide before the commencement of this
Act, shall devolve and shall be deemed to have been devolved on the State Government.
6.
Bar of Law suit.
- No law suit and proceedings shall lie in Civil Courts with respect to the implementation of the provisions of this Act.
7.
Savings.
- Notwithstanding repeal of Bihar College Service Commission Act, 1976 (Bihar Act 26, 1976) anything done or any
action taken in accordance with the provision of the said Act, [if pending shall be decided under the provisions of the
said Act as if this Act is not repealed for this purpose.]
[Emphasis Added.]
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Bihar College Service Commission (Repeal) Act, 2007
Translation
Page 3/3