
----- PAGE 1 -----
Co-operative Department Statistical Assistant Cadre Rules, 2009
Co-operative Department Statistical Assistant Cadre Rules, 2009
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/130664518/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Bihar - Act
Co-operative Department Statistical Assistant Cadre Rules, 2009
BIHAR
India
Co-operative Department Statistical Assistant Cadre Rules, 2009
Rule CO-OPERATIVE-DEPARTMENT-STATISTICAL-ASSISTANT-CADRE-RULES-2009 of 2009
Published on 26 May 2009
Commenced on 26 May 2009
[This is the version of this document from 26 May 2009.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Co-operative Department Statistical Assistant Cadre Rules, 2009
Published vide Notification Bihar Gazette (Extra-Ordinary) No. 257 dated 10.6.2009, 26th May 2009
No. 2/ fu0 @ LFkk0 lka0 lgk0  (01)-07/07-2125. - In exercise of the powers conferred by proviso to Article 309 of the
Constitution of India, the Governor of Bihar is pleased to make the following Rules for recruitment, promotion and
regulation of other service conditions for the Statistical Assistants of the Cooperative Department field establishments.
1.
Short title, extent and commencement.
(1)
These Rules may be called "Cooperative Department Statistical Assistant Cadre Rules, 2009."
(2)
It shall extend to the whole of State of Bihar.
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
Co-operative Department Statistical Assistant Cadre Rules, 2009
(3)
It shall come into force at once.
2.
Definition.
- In these Rules, unless otherwise provided in the context: -
(1)
"Commission" means the Bihar Staff Selection Commission;
(2)
"Appointing Officer" means the Registrar, Cooperative Societies, Bihar;
(3)
"Department" means the Cooperative Department;
(4)
"Cadre" means group of persons working on identified grades of posts under Section 3(3) for different offices of the
Co-operative Department.
3.
The Cadre Constitution.
(1)
The persons appointed and working on the posts of Senior Statistical Assistant under the Co-operative Department prior
to the commencement of these Rules shall be deemed Senior Statistical Assistants under these Rules and shall be
deemed working in the grade of Senior Statistical Assistant from the date of commencement of these Rules and their
inter se seniority shall remain unaffected.
(2)
This Cadre shall be of State-level.
(3)
This Cadre shall include the following grades of posts: -
Sl. No.
Name of the post
Grade
Pay Scale
1
Junior Statistical Assistant
Basic Grade (Non-gazetted)
4000-6000
2
Senior Statistical Assistant
First level of promotion (Non-gazetted)
5000-8000
3
Statistical Officer
Second level of promotion (Gazetted)
5500-9000
4
Deputy Director (Statistics)
Third level of promotion (Gazetted)
8000-13500
Those persons who are appointed and working on the above posts prior to the commencement of these Rules shall be
deemed included automatically in this Cadre.
(4)
The sanctioned strength of different grades of posts shall be refixed under sub-section (3) with the creation and
surrender of posts as per requirement:
Provided that if the working strength of Senior Statistical Assistants exceeds the sanctioned strength refixed in this
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
Co-operative Department Statistical Assistant Cadre Rules, 2009
grade on the day of commencement of these Rules, the number of exceeded posts shall be considered as posts of the
Senior Statistical Assistant till vacancies in this grade due to retirement or promotion or other reasons and the number of
posts of the Junior Statistical Assistant equivalent to the number of exceeded posts shall be deemed deducted till above
vacancies.
There shall be no promotion on the posts of the Senior Statistical Assistant unless the working strength of the Senior
Statistical Assistant does not come under the sanctioned strength in this grade.
4.
Procedure of Appointment.
(1)
Direct appointment shall be made to the posts of the Junior Statistical Assistant only in this Cadre.
(2)
The minimum educational qualification for direct recruitment to the post of the Junior Statistical Assistant shall be pass in
Graduate Examination with any one of the subject of Statistics, Mathematics, Commerce or Economics.
(3)
The minimum age for recruitment shall be of 21 years and the maximum age limit shall be as determined by the State
Government (The Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms) from time to time.
(4)
The requisition shall be sent to the Commission till 30th April every year on the basis of vacancies determined on 1st
April every year by the appointing officer.
(5)
The candidates recommended on the basis of competitive examination conducted by the Commission shall be directly
recruited. The recommendation of the Commission shall remain effective for one year from the date of its receipt.
(6)
The syllabus and the marks for the examination shall be determined in consultation with the Commission.
5.
Probation Period.
- The probation period after appointment shall be of two years. The probation period may be extended upto one year if
the service and conduct is not found satisfactory. The appointment of such personnel shall be terminated if service and
conduct is not found satisfactory during the extended period.
6.
Training.
- The members of the Cadre shall complete the training during the probation period as per programme scheduled by the
Registrar, Co-operative Societies, Bihar.
7.
Confirmation.
- The appointed member shall be confirmed in the Cadre after satisfactory completion of probation period and training.
8.
Promotion.
(1)
The confirmed Junior Statistical Assistants in the Cadre shall be promoted from Junior Statistical Assistant to Senior
Statistical Assistant; from Senior Statistical Assistant to Statistical Officer and from Statistical Officer to the post of
Deputy Director (Statistics) on the basis of seniority-cum-merit recommended by the Departmental Promotion
Committee.
(2)
The recommendation of the Departmental Promotional Committee under the chairmanship of the Chairman/Member of
the Bihar Public Service Commission shall be compulsory for considering promotion to the post (Gazetted) of the
highest scale in the Cadre.
(3)
It shall be compulsory to complete time-period as determined for promotion from one grade to another by the State
Government (Personnel and Administrative Department) from time to time.
9.
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
Co-operative Department Statistical Assistant Cadre Rules, 2009
Removal of difficulty.
- The State Government shall remove the difficulty by necessary order in case any difficulty arises while implementing
any of the provisions of these Rules.
10.
The department shall be competent to explain any of the provisions of these Rules and shall seek advice of the
Finance/Personnel and Administrative Department as per requirement.
11.
The provisions of relevant Rules/circular for the State Government personnel shall remain applicable to subjects for
which provisions have not been made in these Rules.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4