
----- PAGE 1 -----
Bihar Secretariat Service (Appointment through limited competitive examination to the grad...
Bihar Secretariat Service (Appointment through limited competitive
examination to the grade of Section Officer) Regulation, 2009
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/179342873/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Bihar - Act
Bihar Secretariat Service (Appointment through limited competitive examination to the grade of Section Officer)
Regulation, 2009
BIHAR
India
Bihar Secretariat Service (Appointment through limited competitive examination to the grade of Section Officer)
Regulation, 2009
Rule
BIHAR-SECRETARIAT-SERVICE-APPOINTMENT-THROUGH-LIMITED-COMPETITIVE-EXAMINATION-TO-THE-GRA
DE-OF-SECTION-OFFICER-REGULATION-2009 of 2009
Published on 18 June 2009
Commenced on 18 June 2009
[This is the version of this document from 18 June 2009.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Bihar Secretariat Service (Appointment through limited competitive examination to the grade of Section Officer)
Regulation, 2009
Published vide Notification No. 15/BSS-02-03/2008 Ka-2917, dated 18.06.2009
Last Updated 11th February, 2020
No. 15/BSS-02-03/2008 Ka-2917. - In exercise of powers conferred under subsection (2) of section-19 of Bihar
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
Bihar Secretariat Service (Appointment through limited competitive examination to the grad...
Secretariat Service Act, 2007 (Bihar Act 03, 2008) cadre controlling authority (Personnel and Administrative Reforms
Department) makes the following Regulations in light of clause (b) of subsection (1) and subsection-2 of section-14 of
the said Act, for appointment through limited competitive examination to the grade of Section Officer of the Bihar
Secretariat Service -
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
This regulation may be called "Bihar Secretariat Service (Appointment through limited competitive examination to the
grade of Section Officer) Regulation, 2009."
(2)
It shall come into force at once.
2.
Definitions.
- In these Regulations. Unless the context otherwise requires.-
(1)
'Available Vacancies' means calculated and reservation category wise requisitioned vacancies available on 1st April of
every year against the 20 per cent posts in the grade of Section Officer of the service;
(2)
'Act' means the Bihar Secretariat Service Act, 2007 (Bihar Act 03, 2008);
(3)
'Service' means the Bihar Secretariat Service;
(4)
'Commission' means the Bihar Public Service Commission;
(5)
'Examination' means limited competitive examination conducted by the Commission for appointment to the grade of
Section Officer of the service;
(6)
'Rules' means the Bihar Secretariat Service Rules, 2008.
(7)
'Assistant' means those Assistants of the Service who are confirmed in the Service and have completed five years of
continuous service in Assistant grade excluding probation period;
(8)
Other words and reference used in these regulation and not defined herein shall have the meanings respectively
assigned to them in Bihar Act 03, 2008 and Bihar Secretariat Service Rules, 2008.
3.
Appointment through Limited Competitive Examination.
(1)
According to the provisions contained in clause (b) of Subsection (1) of Section 14 of Act, 20% of posts in the grade of
Section Officer of this service shall be filled through Limited Competitive Examinations from the Assistant grade
according to the recommendation of the Commission on the basis of a Limited Written Competitive Examination held by
the Commission for this purpose:
(2)
For this purpose, Personnel and Administrative Reforms Department shall calculate the vacancies on the basis of
vacancies reported by different departments available on 1st April every year and reservation category wise requisition
shall be sent to the Commission by 30th April.
4.
Holding of examination for appointment through Limited Competitive Examination.
(1)
The written examination for appointment through Limited Competitive Examination to the grade of Section Officer of the
service shall be held and conducted by the Commission.
(2)
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
Bihar Secretariat Service (Appointment through limited competitive examination to the grad...
Eligibility and Conditions-For appearing at the Limited Competitive Examination, a candidate shall have to fulfill following
conditions: -
(i)
Should be confirmed in the Assistant grade of the service.
(ii)
Length of service- He should have rendered a continuous service of five years in the Assistant grade excluding
probation period.
(iii)
Every candidate will be given a maximum of three chances in this examination.
(iv)
Fees- A candidates shall have to pay such fees as may be prescribed from time to time by the Commission.
Provided that candidates belonging to the reserved categories may be given such relaxation in the required fees as
prescribed by the Personnel and Administrative Reforms Department from time to time.
(3)
Determination of Eligibility-The Commission shall decide as to the eligibility of candidate for admission to this
examination and the decision of the Commission will be final. Only such candidates may appear in the examination
whose admit card shall be issued by the Commission for this purpose.
5.
Syllabus for Limited Written Competitive Examination.
- There shall be two papers in this examination. Each paper shall be of 100 marks and three hours duration. Each
question shall be of multiple choice objective type.
Paper-I - Question related to General Knowledge, Constitution of India, Public Administration and Development shall be
asked in the first paper.
Paper-II - Question related to following rules/codes shall be asked in the second paper-
(1)
Bihar Service Code
(2)
Bihar Pension Rules
(3)
Bihar Rules of Executive Business
(4)
Secretariat Instructions
(5)
Board Miscellaneous Rules
(6)
Bihar General Provident Fund Rules
(7)
Bihar Travelling Allowance Rules
(8)
Bihar Government Servants conduct Rules
(9)
Bihar Treasury Code
(10)
Bihar Financial Rules
(11)
Bihar Government Servant (Classification, Control and appeal) Rules, 2005
(12)
Right to Information Act, 2005
6.
Results.
- (i) A candidate shall have to obtain minimum qualifying marks as determined by the Personnel & Administrative
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
Bihar Secretariat Service (Appointment through limited competitive examination to the grad...
Reforms Department from time to time to be eligible for being included in the merit list after the examination.
(ii)
A list of eligible and reservation category -wise candidates shall be prepared by the Commission in order of merit and
shall be recommended for appointment according to the requisitioned vacancies;
(iii)
Communication of results to a candidates shall be done according to the mode and procedure prescribed by the
Commission;
(iv)
The validity of recommendation of the Commission shall be for one year from the date of its receipt in the department.
7.
Appointment.
- Success in the examination confers no right to a candidate for appointment to the post of Section Officer unless the
State Government is satisfied after such enquiry, as may be considered necessary by the State Government, about his
conduct during the service period. The decision of Personnel and Administrative Reforms Department, in respect of
disqualification of a candidate recommended by the Commission shall be final.
8.
Penalty for misconduct.
(1)
A candidate shall be penalized for following misconducts : -
(i)
obtaining support for his candidature by any means;
(ii)
impersonating;
(iii)
procuring impersonation of any eligible person;
(iv)
submitting fabricated documents which have been tampered with;
(v)
making statement which are incorrect or false, or suppressing material information;
(vi)
resorting to any other irregular or improper means in connection with his candidature for the examination;
(vii)
misbehaving in the examination hall;
(viii)
using unfair means in the examination hall;
(2)
Attempting to commit or, as the case may be, abetting of all or any of the acts specified in the foregoing clauses, may, in
addition to rendering him liable to criminal prosecution, make him liable-
(i)
to be disqualified by the Commission from the examination for which he is a candidate;
(ii)
to be debarred from examination either permanently or for a specified period;-
(a)
by the Commission- from any examination or selection held by the Commission,
(b)
by the State Government- from any service under the State Government,
(iii)
to disciplinary action in accordance with Bihar Government Servants (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 2005;
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4