
----- PAGE 1 -----
Bihar Commercial Taxes Department Field Auditors Cadre Rules, 2009
Bihar Commercial Taxes Department Field Auditors Cadre Rules,
2009
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/154328697/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Bihar - Act
Bihar Commercial Taxes Department Field Auditors Cadre Rules, 2009
BIHAR
India
Bihar Commercial Taxes Department Field Auditors Cadre Rules, 2009
Rule BIHAR-COMMERCIAL-TAXES-DEPARTMENT-FIELD-AUDITORS-CADRE-RULES-2009 of 2009
Published on 17 July 2009
Commenced on 17 July 2009
[This is the version of this document from 17 July 2009.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Bihar Commercial Taxes Department Field Auditors Cadre Rules, 2009
Published vide Notification No. 7/ME-301-04/96-2781, dated 17th July 2009, published in Bihar Gazette (Extra-ordinary)
No. 584, dated 16.11.2009
No. 7/ME-301-04/96-2781, dated 17th July 2009. - In exercise of the powers conferred by proviso to Article 309 of the
Constitution of India, the Governor of Bihar is pleased to make the following Rules to regulate the recruitment,
promotion, and other service conditions of the Auditors working in the field establishment of Commercial Taxes :-
Chapter-1
1.
Short title, extent and commencement.
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
Bihar Commercial Taxes Department Field Auditors Cadre Rules, 2009
(1)
These 'Rules' may be called Bihar Commercial Taxes Department Field Auditors Cadre Rules, 2009.
(2)
It shall extend to whole of the State of Bihar.
(3)
They shall come into force with immediate effect.
2.
Definitions.
- In these Rules, unless otherwise required in the context -
(a)
'Department' means the Department of Commercial Taxes.
(b)
'Cadre' means the cadre of Auditors working in different offices of Divisions.
(c)
'Appointing Authority' means Commissioner-Cum-Secretary, Department of Commercial Taxes, and
(d)
'Commission' means the Bihar State Staff Selection Commission.
3.
Constitution of the cadre.
(1)
The cadre shall be State level and shall be under the administrative control of the Department of Commercial Taxes.
(2)
Employees appointed and working at present on the post of Auditors in the field offices of the Divisions of the
Department shall be deemed to be automatically included in this cadre.
(3)
Appraisement of number of Auditors of different categories shall be on the basis of their sanctioned strength by the State
Government.
(4)
Number of sanctioned strength of Auditors may be increased/decreased from time to time by the State Government.
(5)
The grades of Auditors cadre shall be prescribed in the following manner :-
Sl.  No.
Grade Pay
Scale
Level
(i)
Auditor
4500-125-7000
Basic Grade
(ii)
Auditor Grade-II
5500-175-9000
1st Promotion
(iii)
Auditor Grade I
6500-200-10500
2nd Promotion
4.
Procedure of recruitment.
- (i) Direct recruitment shall be made on the post of Auditor Cadre.
(ii)
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
Bihar Commercial Taxes Department Field Auditors Cadre Rules, 2009
The minimum educational qualification for appointment to the post of Auditor shall be second class graduate (with
Mathematics) or Commerce graduate Passed from any recognized University.
(iii)
The minimum age limit shall be 21 years and the maximum age shall be the age determined by the State Government
(Personnel & Administrative Reforms Department) from time to time.
(iv)
The requisition shall be sent by the Appointing Authority to the Commission by 30th April after calculation on the basis of
vacancies determined on 1st April of every year.
(v)
The Commission shall invite applications from eligible candidates by advertisement in daily newspapers and prepare a
merit list of candidates obtaining minimum qualifying marks on the basis of written competitive examination and send its
recommendation to the appointing authority.
(vi)
The syllabus for the conduct of Competitive examination shall be determined by the State Government in consultation
with the Commission.
5.
Probation Period.
- The probation period after appointment shall be of two years. The probation period may be extended up to one year if
the service and conduct is not found satisfactory during the period. The appointment of such personnel shall be
terminated if service and conduct is not found satisfactory during the extended period of probation.
6.
Training.
- (i) The appointing authority shall arrange for conduct of training schedule during the probation period for the members
of the cadre
(ii)
A short time Refresher Course shall be arranged for the members of this cadre as per requirement from time to time.
7.
Confirmation.
(1)
The members appointed in this cadre shall be confirmed after satisfactory completion of probation and necessary
training.
8.
Promotion.
(1)
The confirmed Auditors in the cadre shall be promoted to Auditors grade II and from Auditors grade II to Auditors grade I
on the basis of seniority cum merit recommended by the Departmental Promotion Committee.
(2)
On completion of duration (Kalawadhi) determined by the Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms, Bihar,
Patna, from time to time promotions will be considered from one grade to another.
(3)
Departmental Promotion Committee shall be constituted in the following manner. -
(i)
Commercial Taxes Commissioner - Chairman
(ii)
An officer of Finance Department (Not below the rank of Deputy Secretary - Member.
(iii)
An officer in charge of establishment of Commercial Taxes Department - Member
(iv)
Nominated officer of Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe by Personnel & Administrative Reforms Department - Member.
9.
Reservation.
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
Bihar Commercial Taxes Department Field Auditors Cadre Rules, 2009
- The reservation policy and Roster as issued by the State Government from time to time in respect of appointment and
promotion shall be strictly followed.
10.
Removal of Difficulty.
- If any difficulty arises in Course of implementation of any provision of this Rule the State Government may issue orders
by publishing it in the Gazette for removal of such a difficulty.
11.
The Department shall be competent for defining any provision of this Rule.
12.
Rules/instruction enforced for the time being for the employees of the state shall be applicable regarding such subject
and issues which have not been provided in this Rule.
13.
Repeal.
- All previous relevant Resolution/Circulars etc issued in respect of Auditors shall be deemed to be repealed with the
commencement of these Rules.
14.
Notwithstanding anything contained in Rule 13 any work done or any order issued or any proceeding passed or any
notification published before the commencement of this Rule shall be deemed to have been made or passed or
published as if this Rule was valid on the day such work was done or such order passed or such notification published.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4