
----- PAGE 1 -----
Bihar Staff Selection Commission Conduct of Examination Rules, 2010
Bihar Staff Selection Commission Conduct of Examination Rules,
2010
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/77360042/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Bihar - Act
Bihar Staff Selection Commission Conduct of Examination Rules, 2010
BIHAR
India
Bihar Staff Selection Commission Conduct of Examination Rules, 2010
Rule BIHAR-STAFF-SELECTION-COMMISSION-CONDUCT-OF-EXAMINATION-RULES-2010 of 2010
Published on 25 March 2010
Commenced on 25 March 2010
[This is the version of this document from 25 March 2010.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Bihar Staff Selection Commission Conduct of Examination Rules, 2010
Published vide Notification No.-7/p0i0-208 /98-2741, dated 25.03.2010
Last Updated 10th February, 2020
No-7/p0i0-208 /98-2741. - In exercise of power conferred under sub-section (1) of section 12 of the Bihar Staff Selection
Commission Act, 2002 (Bihar Act 7, 2002), the State government of Bihar makes the following rules, to implement the
provisions of the said Act :-
1.
Short title, extent and commencement.
(1)
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
Bihar Staff Selection Commission Conduct of Examination Rules, 2010
These rules may be called as the "Bihar Staff Selection Commission Conduct of Examination Rules, 2010".
(2)
It shall extend to the whole State of Bihar.
(3)
It shall come into force at once.
2.
Definition.
- In these Rules, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context
(i)
'Department' means Personnel & Administrative Reforms Department,
(ii)
'Concerned Department' means the requisitioning and appointing department;
(iii)
'Commission' means the Bihar Staff Selection Commission; and
(iv)
'Annexure' means the annexure attached to the rules.
3.
The following minimum three examination in a year shall generally be conducted for non-technical post by the Bihar
Staff Selection Commission:-
(a)
Matric or 10th pass level.
(b)
Inter (+2) level.
(c)
Graduate level.
4.
The list of posts related to Matric level (10th pass level) is annexed as Annexure (1) and the list of posts related to
graduate level is annexed as Annexure (2). In the said Annexure, changes may be made by the Personnel and
Administrative Reforms Department form time to time and the list of posts for Inter level examination may be made
separately. The specific qualifications for specific posts may be determined by the concerned department which will
mean that the concerned specific qualification holder only be qualified for said specified posts.
5.
The examinations shall be conducted in two stages -
(a)
Preliminary examination.
(b)
Main examination.
6.
The preliminary examination shall not generally be taken for examination of any level if the number of application after
scrutiny is below 40000 (forty thousand).
7.
The candidates shall be selected through the Preliminary examination, equal to the five times numbers of the available
vacancies, who shall be eluded in the Main examination. The draft merit list shall be prepared on the basis of main
examination.
8.
After the preparation of draft merit list, the commission with the help of General Administration Department shall cause
the preliminary verification of certificates and test of health and thereafter the final recommendation shall be sent to the
concerned department. The concerned department shall also cause 152 verification of antecedent after the verification
of certificate.
9.
There shall be one paper in the preliminary examination consisting of following subjects
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
Bihar Staff Selection Commission Conduct of Examination Rules, 2010
(a)
Social Studies;
(b)
General Science and Mathematics;
(c)
Mental ability test (Comprehension/Logic/Reasoning/Mental ability).
The questions shall be of objective and multi-choice type.
10.
There shall be two paper for main examination -
(a)
Hindi [which shall be qualifying, i.e. the second paper of only those examinees shall be evaluated who secure thirty
percent or more than thirty percent marks in this paper];
(b)
Main paper, which shall include the following subjects-
(i)
Social Studies;
(ii)
General Science and Mathematics;
(iii)
Mental ability test (Comprehension/Logic/Reasoning/Mental ability).
The questions shall be of objective and multiple choice types.
11.
If technical posts are included in the list of posts under rule 4, in such circumstances the additional papers of concerned
technical subject shall be included for the main examination for which appropriate decision shall be taken by the
Personnel and Administrative Reforms Department.
12.
The preliminary examinations shall be taken with books, i.e. the examinees may take books with them in examination.
13.
At the time of applying for main examination, the examinees shall be required to furnish option for the available posts in
the application, which may not be changed. The recommendation of selected candidates shall be made by the
Commission in view of merit and option, on the basis of result of main examination and after the verification of
certificates and health examination.
14.
The provisions regarding conduct of examination in the concerned Service/Cadre Rules related to posts mentioned in
Schedule (1) and Schedule (2), shall be deemed to be amended to the aforesaid extent.
15.
The compliance of the Rules/Instructions issued by the State Government from time to time concerning
Reservation/Roster shall be essential in requisition and preparation of merit list.
16.
Keeping in view the aforesaid rules, the Bihar Staff Selection Commission shall have liberty to take decision on the
standard and procedure of examination.
Schedule 1
List of Matric level Posts
SI. No.
Name of Posts
Remarks
1
Lower Division Clerk (Secretariat)
2
Panchayat Secretary
3
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
Bihar Staff Selection Commission Conduct of Examination Rules, 2010
Lower Division Clerk (Field)
4
Revenue Karmachari
5
Moharrir
6
Copyist (Survey)
7
Statistical Clerk
8
Lady Supervisor
Schedule 2
List of Graduate level Posts
Sl.No.
Name of Posts
Remarks
1
Secretariat Assistant
2
Supply Inspector
3
Circle Inspector & Kanungo
4
Junior Statistical Assistant
5
Assistant Project Officer
6
Gram Panchayat Supervisor
7
Labour Enforcement Officer
8
Block Welfare Officer
9
Industries Extension Officer
10
Assistant Audit Officer
Co-operative Department
11
Co-operative Extension Officer
12
Statistical Supervisor
13
Senior Statistical Supervisor
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4