
----- PAGE 1 -----
Bihar Medical Service Institution and Person Protection Act, 2011
Bihar Medical Service Institution and Person Protection Act, 2011
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/76354255/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
5
]
State of Bihar - Act
Bihar Medical Service Institution and Person Protection Act, 2011
BIHAR
India
Bihar Medical Service Institution and Person Protection Act, 2011
Act 18 of 2011
Published in Bihar Gazette on 15 September 2011
Commenced on 15 September 2011
[This is the version of this document from 15 September 2011.]
AN ACT
Preamble:?To prevent violence against persons related to the Bihar Medical service and damage to property of the
Medical Service Institutions of the State of Bihar and for matters connected there with and incidental there to.
BE it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Bihar in the Sixty two year of the Republic of India as follows:-
1.
Short title, extent and commencement.?(1) This Act may be called the Bihar Medical Service Institution and Person
Protection Act, 2011.
(2)
It shall extend to the whole of the State of Bihar.
(3)
It shall come into force at once.
2.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Bihar Medical Service Institution and Person Protection Act, 2011
Definitions.?In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires:-
(i)
?Medical Service Institutions? means all Institutions providing Medicare to people which are under the control of State or
Central Government or local bodies etc including any private hospital having facilities for treatment of the sick and any
private nursing home used or intended to be used for the reception or accommodation for persons suffering from any
sickness, injury or infirmity whether of body or mind and providing of treatment or nursing or both of them and include
the maternity home or convulsion home etc.
(ii)
Medical service person means the following persons working in Medicare service institutions:-
(a)
Registered Medical Practitioners, working in Medical Service Institutions (including those having provisional registration);
(b)
Registered Nurses;
(c)
Medical Students;
(d)
Nursing Nurses;
(e)
Para Medical workers employed and working in Medical Service Institutions;
(f)
Other Staff;
(g)
Other establishments within the premises of the Medical Service Institutions supporting its working(iii) ?Offender?
means all such person who either by himself commits or attempts to commit or abets or, incites the commission of
violence under this Act.
(iv)
?State Government? shall mean Government of Bihar,
(v)
?Violence? means activities of causing any harm, injury or endangering the life or intimidation, obstruction or hindrance
to any Medical service person in discharge of duty or activities causing damage to any property in Medical Service
Institutions.
3.
Offence.?Any act of violence against Medical service persons or damage to property in Medical service institutions shall
amount to an offence under this Act:
Provided that every Medical Service Institution and person shall ensure timely treatment of the patients by adopting all
prescribed measures standards with sensitive behavior to the patient. No negligence is caused to the patient by any
one:
Provided further that every Medical Service Institution and person shall ensure that treatment of the patients are being
done according to prescribed norms and procedures:
Provided further and that every Medical Service Institution and person shall ensure that reasons for referring the patient
to another hospital are made understood / clarified to him and the same are incorporated on the prescription of the
patient.
4.
Penalty.?Any offender, who commits an offence as described under section-3, shall be punished with imprisonment for a
period of three years and with fine which may extend to fifty thousand rupees and / or action will be taken under Indian
Panel Code.
5.
Cognizance of offence.?Any offence committed under section 3 shall be cognizable and non-bailable.
6.
Investigation.?Case registered under this Act shall not be investigated by a Police Officer below the rank of Dy.
Superintendent of Police .
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Bihar Medical Service Institution and Person Protection Act, 2011
7.
Recovery of loss for the damage caused to be property.?(1) In addition to the punishment specified in section-4, the
offender shall be liable to a penalty of twice the amount of purchase price of medical equipment damaged and twice the
loss caused to the property as determined by the court trying the offender.
(2)
If the offender does not pay the penal amount under sub-section (1), the said sum shall be recovered under the
provisions of the Bihar & Orissa Public Demands Recovery Act as if it were arrears of land revenue due from him.
8.
Act not in derogation of any other law.?The provisions of the Act shall be in addition to and not in derogation of the
provisions of any other law, for the time being in force.
9.
Rule Making Power.?Without prejudice to the foregoing provisions of this Act, the State Government may make Rules
for carrying out purposes of this Act.
By order of the Governor of Bihar,
VINOD KUMAR SINHA,
Secretary to Government.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3