
----- PAGE 1 -----
Bihar Lady Health Worker (Auxiliary Nurse Midwife- A.N.M.) Cadre Rules, 2013
Bihar Lady Health Worker (Auxiliary Nurse Midwife- A.N.M.) Cadre
Rules, 2013
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/116259412/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Bihar - Act
Bihar Lady Health Worker (Auxiliary Nurse Midwife- A.N.M.) Cadre Rules, 2013
BIHAR
India
Bihar Lady Health Worker (Auxiliary Nurse Midwife- A.N.M.) Cadre Rules, 2013
Rule BIHAR-LADY-HEALTH-WORKER-AUXILIARY-NURSE-MIDWIFE-A-N-M-CADRE-RULES-2013 of 2013
Published on 25 October 2013
Commenced on 25 October 2013
[This is the version of this document from 25 October 2013.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Bihar Lady Health Worker (Auxiliary Nurse Midwife- A.N.M.) Cadre Rules, 2013
Published vide Notification No. 6/N-07-35/10 (part)-439(6), dated 25.10.2013
Last Updated 6th February, 2020
No. 6/N-07-35/10 (part)-439(6). - In exercise of powers conferred by proviso to Article -309 of the Constitution of India,
the Governor of Bihar is pleased to make the following Rules to determine appointment, promotion and service
conditions in the A.N.M. cadre under the Health Department.
1.
Short title, extent & commencement.
(1)
Page 1/5
----- PAGE 2 -----
Bihar Lady Health Worker (Auxiliary Nurse Midwife- A.N.M.) Cadre Rules, 2013
A.N.M Cadre Rules may be called as the " Bihar Lady Health Worker (Auxiliary Nurse Midwife- A.N.M.) Cadre Rules,
2013."
(2)
It will extend to the whole State of Bihar.
(3)
It will come into force at once.
2.
Definitions.
- In these Rules, unless otherwise requires in the subject or context:-
(1)
'Government' means Bihar State Government ;
(2)
'Department' means Health Department ;
(3)
'Appointing Authority' means Civil Surgeon-cum-Chief Medical Officer of the concerned District;
(4)
'A.N.M' means Auxiliary Nurse Midwife;
(5)
'Commission ' means Bihar Staff Selection Commission;
(6)
'Cadre' means Bihar Lady Health Worker (A.N.M.) cadre;
(7)
'Appendix' means appendix appended to these Rules; and
(8)
'Recognized Institution' means the institution recognized by the Indian Nursing Council for A.N. Midwifery Course.
3.
Constitution of cadre.
- The Cadre of Lady Health Worker shall be at district level. In this cadre, number of posts in each grade and total
number of posts in the cadre shall be as many as are sanctioned by the government from time to time.
4.
Chain posts of cadre.
- Different categories and chain posts of this cadre shall be according to appendix-1.
5.
Recruitment.
- The appointment in this cadre shall be made by direct recruitment to the basic categories posts, on the basis of
recommendation of the Commission.
6.
Qualification.
(1)
For appointment by direct recruitment to the basic categories posts, minimum educational qualifications shall be pass in
A.N. Midwifery training course of the period as determined by Indian Nursing council from time to time, from a
recognised institution and a certificate related thereto shall be necessary .
(2)
For direct recruitment minimum age limit shall be 21 years and maximum age limit shall be the same as may be
determined reservation category wise from time to time by the Government. 1st August of the concerned year shall be
deemed to be the cut off date for determination of age.
7.
Procedure of Recruitment.
(1)
The appointing authority, after calculating vacancy on the basis of position on 1st April of the year and getting roaster
cleared, shall send reservation category wise requisition to the Commission latest by 30th April.
Page 2/5
----- PAGE 3 -----
Bihar Lady Health Worker (Auxiliary Nurse Midwife- A.N.M.) Cadre Rules, 2013
(2)
In view of the requisition the Commission shall invite applications by advertising vacancies and shall prepare merit list on
following basis:-
(a)
For marks obtained in A.N.M course examination
- 50 marks
(b)
For higher degree
- 10 marks
(c)
For experience in Government hospitals of Bihar
State (5 marks per year, maximum 25 marks)
- 25 marks
(d)
For Interview
- 15 marks
Total
- 100 marks
Explanation. - The marks to be given to a candidate for A.N.M. course examination shall be determined by multiplying
the percentage of total marks obtained in the aforesaid examination by multiple of 0.5. For example, if a candidate has
obtained 50% marks, then he will be given 50% x 0.5 = 25 marks.
(3)
The commission shall send prepared merit list on the basis of aforesaid sub-rule (2), and reservation category wise
recommendations in conformity with requisitioned vacancy to the Appointing Authority.
(4)
Procedure for interview shall be determined by the Commission.
8.
Probation period.
- After appointment probation period will be of two years. In case, the service during probation period is not found
satisfactory, the probation period will be extended for one year. If the service is not found to be satisfactory in extended
period also, then the appointing authority may terminate service of such Lady Health Worker (A.N.M.).
9.
Departmental Examination.
- The Lady Health Worker (A.N.M.) shall have to pass the departmental examination organised by the Department. The
syllabus of departmental examination will be determined by the Department.
10.
Confirmation.
- On being satisfactory service during probation period and passing of departmental examination a Lady Health Worker
(A.N.M.) may be confirmed in the service.
11.
Seniority.
- The inter-se seniority of Lady Health Worker (A.N.M.) shall be determined according to the merit list prepared by the
Commission.
12.
The personnel appointed/promoted and working on the posts of this cadre mentioned in appendix.
- 1 before the commencement of these Rules shall be deemed to be automatically included in this cadre.
13.
Chain Posts of Promotion.
(1)
Subject to availability of the vacancies and according to seniority cum merit, Lady Health Worker (A.N.M.) shall be
considered to be promoted on the posts mentioned in Appendix - 1.
Page 3/5
----- PAGE 4 -----
Bihar Lady Health Worker (Auxiliary Nurse Midwife- A.N.M.) Cadre Rules, 2013
(2)
For consideration of promotion, completion of 'Kalawadhi' determined by the General Administration Department, from
time to time, shall be necessary. Compliance of instructions issued by General Administration Department, from time to
time, with respect to promotion and character roll / P.A.R, allegations / departmental proceedings / criminal proceedings
etc., shall be necessary at the time of consideration of promotion.
14.
Departmental Promotion Committee.
(1)
Promotions will be on the basis of recommendations of the Departmental Promotion Committee.
(2)
The Departmental Promotion Committee shall be constituted by the Department.
15.
Reservation.
- Compliance of provisions of Reservation Act of the Government and reservation roster for direct recruitment and
promotion issued from time to time by the Government shall be essential.
16.
Uniform.
- It shall be essential for Lady Health Workers to wear uniform during duty as determined category wise by the
Department.
17.
For the subjects which have not been provided in these Rules, provisions of concerned Code / Rules / Resolutions /
Instructions shall apply.
18.
Removal of Doubt.
- If any doubt arises with respect to interpretation of any provision of these Rules, it shall be referred to the Department
and in this respect the decision of the Department shall be final.
19.
Removal of difficulties.
- If any difficulty arises in implementation of provisions of these Rules, the department shall have powers to remove such
difficulty.
20.
Repeal and Savings.
(1)
The Rules and all resolutions, orders, instructions etc issued earlier, from time to time, by the Department with respect to
this cadre, shall be deemed to be repealed with effect from the date of coming into force of these Rules.
(2)
Notwithstanding such repeal, any work done or any action taken in exercise of the powers conferred by aforesaid Rules,
resolutions, orders, instructions etc shall be deemed to be done or taken under these Rules as if these Rules were in
force on the date on which such a work was done or such an action was taken.
Appendix - 1
[See rule 2 (7), 4, 12, 13]
Chain posts of Bihar Lady Health Worker (A.N.M.) Cadre
Sl. No.
Grade
Name of post
Remarks
1.
Basic grade
Lady Health Worker (A.N.M.)
2.
First Ladder of
Page 4/5
----- PAGE 5 -----
Bihar Lady Health Worker (Auxiliary Nurse Midwife- A.N.M.) Cadre Rules, 2013
promotion Senior Lady Health Worker
3.
Second Ladder of
promotion Lady Health Worker Supervisor
4.
Third Ladder of
promotion Senior Lady Health Worker Supervisor
Note :- The Pay Band and Grade Pay of all aforesaid grades shall be revisable by the government from time to time.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 5/5