
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/125368290/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
855
]
State of Bihar - Act
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
BIHAR
India
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
Act 11 of 2007
Published on 8 January 2014
Commenced on 8 January 2014
[This is the version of this document as it was from 8 January 2014 to 9 August 2020.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
Bihar Act
11 of 2007
Published in the Bihar Gazette (Extraordinary) dated 5.4.2007.
An Act to consolidate and amend the laws relating to the municipal governments in the State of Bihar in conformity with
the provisions of the Constitution of India as amended by the Constitution (Seventy-fourth Amendment) Act, 1992,
based on the principles of participation in, and decentralization, autonomy and accountability of, urban self-government
at various levels, to introduce reforms in financial management and accounting systems, internal resource generation
capacity and organizational design of Municipalities, to ensure professionalisation of the municipal personnel, and to
provide for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Bihar in the fifty eighth year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Page 1/183
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
Part I ? Chapter I
Preliminary
1.
Short title, extent and commencement.
(1)
This Act may be called the Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
(2)
It shall extend to the whole of the State of Bihar excluding cantonment areas therein.
(3)
It shall come into force at once.
2.
Definitions.
- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-
(1)
"Ad hoc Committee" means an Ad hoc Committee appointed under Section 33;
(2)
"Administrator" means any officer appointed by the State Government to exercise the powers and perform the duties
conferred or imposed on the Municipalities, the Empowered Standing Committee and the Chief Executive Officer, by or
under this Act;
(3)
"Annual Rental Value" of a holding means the gross annual rental at which a holding may reasonably be expected to be
let out.
(3A)
"Auditor" means an Auditor appointed under Section 90, and includes any officer authorized by him to perform all or any
of the functions of an Auditor under this Act;
(4)
"assessment list" means any municipal assessment register referred to under this Act, and includes any register
subsidiary thereto;
(5)
"authorise" means authorised by the Corporation either generally or specially;
(6)
"balance sheet" means the balance sheet prepared under Section 89;
(7)
"bio-medical waste" means any waste generated during diagnosis, treatment or immunization of human beings or
animals or in research activities pertaining thereto or in the production or testing of biologicals;
(8)
"bridge" includes culvert;
(9)
"budget estimate" means the budget estimate prepared under Section 82; '
(10)
"budget grant" means the total sum entered on the expenditure side of a budget estimate under a major head and
adopted by the Municipality, and includes any sum by which such budget grant is increased or reduced by transfer from
or to other heads in accordance with the provisions of this Act and the Rules and the Regulations made thereunder;
(11)
"building" means a structure constructed for whatever purpose and of whatever materials, and includes the foundation,
plinth, walls, floors, roofs, chimneys, fixed platforms, verandas, balconies, cornices or projections or part of a building or
anything affixed thereto or any wall (other than a boundary wall of less than three metres in height) enclosing, or
intended to enclose, any land, sign or outdoor display-structure but does not include a tent, shamiana or tarpaulin
shelter;
(11a)
[ Total built-up area means the carpet area that is actual usable area within the walls plus the thickness of walls and the
Page 2/183
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
balcony on each floor in a premise;]
[Added by Bihar Act No. 2 of 2014, dated 8.1.2014.]
(12)
"building line" means a line beyond which the outer face or any part of an external wall of building should not project in
the direction of any street, existing or proposed and sanctioned;
(13)
"cadres of common municipal services" means the cadres of common municipal services constituted under sub-section
(1) of Section 43;
(14)
"carriage" means any wheeled vehicle, with springs or other appliances acting as springs, which is ordinarily used for the
conveyance of human beings, and includes an in-rickshaw, cycle-rickshaw, bicycle or tricycle, but does not include a
perambulator or other form of vehicle designed for the conveyance of children or elderly, infirm or handicapped persons;
(15)
"cart" means any cart, hackney or wheeled vehicle with or without springs, which is not a carriage, and includes a
hand-cart, a cycle van and a push van, but does not include any wheeled vehicle which is propelled by mechanical
power or its trailer;
(16)
'category' A' post means a category 'A' post classified as such under Section 37;
(17)
"category 'B' post" means a category 'B' post classified as such under Section 37;
(18)
'category 'C' post" means a category 'C' post classified as such under Section 37;
(19)
"category 'D' post" means a category 'D' post classified as such under Section 37;
(20)
"Chief Councillor" means-
(i)
in relation to a Municipal Corporation, the Mayor,
(ii)
in relation to a Municipal Council, the Municipal Chairperson, and
(iii)
in relation to a Nagar Panchayat, the Municipal President;
(21)
"Chief Municipal Officer" means,-
(i)
in relation to a Municipal Corporation, the Municipal Commissioner, and
(ii)
in relation to a Municipal Council or Nagar Panchyat, the Municipal Executive Officer;
(22)
"City" means a larger urban area declared to be a City under Section 3;
(23)
"Class 'A' medium urban area" means a smaller urban area classified as such under Section 7;
(24)
"Class 'B' medium urban area" means a smaller urban area classified as such under Section 7;
(25)
"Class 'C' medium urban area" means a smaller urban area classified as such under Section 7;
(26)
"conservancy" means the removal and disposal of sewage, offensive matter and rubbish;
(27)
"Councillor", in relation to a Municipality, means a person chosen by direct election from a ward of that Municipality;
(28)
Page 3/183
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
"cubical extent," with reference to the measurement of a building, means the space contained with the external surface
of its walls and roof and the upper surface of the floor of its lowest or only storey;
(29)
"dangerous disease" means-
(a)
cholera, plague, small-pox, cerebrospinal meningitis, diphtheria, tuberculosis, leprosy, influenza, encephalitis,
polimyelitis, or syphilis; or
(b)
any other epidemic, endemic or infectious disease which the State Government may, by notification, declare to be a
dangerous disease for the purposes of this Act;
(30)
"Deputy Chief Councillor" means,-
(a)
in relation to a Municipal Corporation, the Deputy Mayor,
(b)
in relation to a Municipal Council, the Municipal Vice-Chairperson, and
(c)
in relation to a Nagar Panchayat, the Municipal Vice President;
(31)
[Director of Municipal Administration]
[Substituted 'Director of Local Bodies' by Bihar Act No. 2 of 2014, dated 8.1.2014.]
means an officer appointed as such by the State Government, and includes an Additional Director, a Joint Director, a
Deputy Director, or any other officer of the State Government authorized by it to perform the functions of the [Director of
Municipal Administration]
[Substituted 'Director of Local Bodies' by Bihar Act No. 2 of 2014, dated 8.1.2014.]
under this Act;
(32)
"domestic purposes", in relation to the supply of water, means the purposes other than those referred to in sub-section
(3) of Section 171;
(33)
"drain" includes a sewer, a house-drain, a drain of any other description, a tunnel, a culvert, a ditch, a channel or any
other device for carrying off sullage, sweage, offensive matter, polluted water, rain-water or subsoil water;
(34)
"drug" means any substance used as medicine or in the composition or preparation of medicine, whether for internal or
external use, but does not include a drug within the meaning of clause (b) of Section 3 of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act,
1940 (23 of, 1940).
(35)
"dwelling-house" means a masonry building constructed, used, or adapted to be used, wholly or principally for human
habitation;
(36)
"Empowered Standing Committee" means the Empowered Standing Committee referred to in Section 21;
(37)
"Establishment Schedule" means the Establishment Schedule prepared under Section 37;
(38)
"Financial statement" means the Financial statement prepared under Section 88.
(39)
"food" includes every article used for food or drink by man, other than drugs or water, and any article which ordinarily
enters into, or is used in the composition or preparation of, human food, and also includes confectionery, flavouring and
colouring matters, spices and condiments;
(40)
"footpath" means a pavement, for use by pedestrians, which abuts a category I or category II or category III or category
Page 4/183
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
IV road;
(41)
"habitable room" means a room constructed or adapted for human habitation;
(42)
"hazardous process" means the hazardous process defined in 63 clause (cb) of Section 2 of the Factories Act, 1948;
(43)
"hazardous wastes" means the categories of wastes specified under Section 29 as such in the Environment (Protection)
Act, 1986;
(44)
"holding" means land held under one title or agreement and surrounded by one set of boundaries:
Provided that, where two or more adjoining holdings held by the same owner form part and parcel of the site or premises
of an apartment and a dwelling house, manufactory, warehouse or place of trade or business, such holdings shall be
deemed to be one holding for the purposes of this Act.
Explanation. - Holdings separated by a road or other means of communication shall be deemed adjoining within the
meaning of this proviso:
Provided further that where any building is capable of being enjoyed separately in parts, or where portions of such
building are owned separately by different persons, or where the building comprises self contained and independent
units, each of such parts, portions or units shall, on application by the owners, be deemed, to be a separate holding;
(45)
"house-drain" means any drain of one or more premises used for the drainage of such premises;
(46)
"house-gully" means a passage or a strip of land constructed, set apart or utilized for the purpose of serving as a drain
or affording access to a privy, urinal, cesspool or other receptacle for filthy or polluted matter for municipal employees or
for persons employed in the cleaning thereof or removal of such matter therefrom, and includes the air space above
such passage or land;
(47)
"hut" means any building, no substantial part of which, excluding the walls up to a height of fifty centimeters above the
floor or floor level, is constructed of masonry, reinforced concrete, steel, iron or other metal;
(48)
"industrial township" means such urban area or part thereof as the Governor may, having regard to the size of the area
and the municipal services being provided or proposed to be provided by an industrial establishment in that area and
such other factors as he may deem fit, by notification, specify to be an industrial township;
(49)
"infectious disease" or "communicable disease" means any disease which may be transmitted from one person to
another and declared as such by the State Government by notification;
(50)
"Joint Committee" means a Joint Committee constituted under Section 34;
(51)
"larger urban area" means a municipal area classified as a larger urban area under Section 7;
(52)
"land or building" includes a slum;
(53)
"licensed surveyor" means a surveyor licensed by the Corporation under the provisions of this Act;
(54)
"market" includes any place, by whatever name called, where persons assemble for the sale of meat, fish, fruit,
vegetables, live stock, or any other article of food of a perishable nature, or any other article for which there is a
collection of shops or warehouses or stalls, declared and licensed by the Municipality as a market;
(55)
"masonry building" means any building, other than a hut, and includes any structure, a substantial part of which is made
of masonry, reinforced concrete, steel, iron or other metal;
(56)
Page 5/183
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
"milk" includes cream, skimmed milk, separated milk, and condensed, sterilized, desiccated or toned milk;
(57)
"Municipal Accounts Committee" means a Municipal Accounts Committee constituted under Section 190;
(58)
"Municipal Accounting Manual" means the Municipal Accounting Manual prepared and maintained under Section 89;
(59)
"Municipal area" means an area constituted as a municipal area under Section 6;
(60)
"Municipal drain" means a drain vested in the Municipality;
(61)
"Municipal Fund" means the Municipal Fund referred to in Section 73;
(62)
"Municipal Magistrate" means the Municipal Magistrate appointed under Section 398;
(63)
"Municipal market" means a market belonging to, or maintained, by, the Municipality;
(64)
"Government" means Government of State of Bihar.
(65)
"Municipal slaughterhouse" means a slaughterhouse belonging to, or maintained by, the Municipality;
(66)
"Municipality" means an institution of Self-Government constituted under Section 12, read with Article 243Q of the
Constitution of India, and includes a Municipal Corporation, a Municipal Council, and a Nagar Panchayat, referred to in
Section 13;
(67)
"notification" means a notification published in the Official Gazette;
(68)
"nuisance" includes any act, omission, place or thing which causes, or is likely to cause, injury, danger, annoyance,
offence to the sense of sight, smell or hearing, or disturbance to rest or sleep, or which is, or may be, dangerous to life
or injurious to health or property;
(69)
"occupier" includes any person for the time being paying, liable to pay, to the owner the rent or any portion of the rent
(the land or the building in respect of which the word is used or for damages on account of the occupation of such land
or building, and also includes a rent-free tenant:
Provided that an owner living in, or otherwise using, his own land or building shall be deemed to be the occupier thereof;
(70)
"offensive matter" means kitchen or stable refuse, dung, dirt, putrid or purifying substance, or fifth of any kind which is
not included in sewage;
(71)
"other agency" means a company, firm, society, or body corporate in the private sector, or any institution, or government
agency, or any joint sector agency, or any agency under any other law for the time being in force;
(72)
"owner" includes the person for the time being receiving rent of any land or building or of any part of any land or building,
whether on his own account or as an agent or trust for any person or society or for any religious or charitable purpose or
as a receiver who would receive such rent if the land or the building or of any part of the land or the building were let to a
tenant;
Provided that for purposes of the acquisition of land or payment of compensation, the term "owner" shall mean the
person who owns the land or any person duly authorised by him to enter into any agreement with the Chief Municipal
Officer or to receive compensation;
(73)
"platform" means any structure which is placed on or covers or projects over any street or any open drain and includes
balconies or other extension of buildings projecting at any height over such street or drain;
Page 6/183
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
(74)
"population" means the population as ascertain at the last preceding census of which the relevant figures have been
published;
(75)
"premises" means any land or building or part of a building Or any hut or part of a hut, and includes-
(a)
the garden, ground and outhouses, if any, appertaining thereto, add any fittings or fixtures affixed to a building or part of
a building or hut or part of a hut for the more beneficial enjoyment thereof;
(76)
"prescribed" means prescribed by Rules made under this Act;
(77)
"presiding officer" means,-
(i)
in the case of a Municipal Corporation, the Mayor,
(ii)
in the case of a Municipal Council, the Municipal Chairperson, and
(iii)
in the case of a Nagar Panchayat, the Municipal President;
(78)
"private drain" means any drain which is not a municipal drain;
(79)
"private street" means any street, road, lane, gully, alley, passage or square which is not a public street, and includes
any passage securing access to four or more premises belonging to the same or different owners, but does not include
a passage provided in effecting a partition of any masonry building amongst joint owners where such passage is less
than two metres and fifty centimeters wide;
(80)
"public building" means a masonry building constructed, used, or adapted to be used,
(a)
as a place of public worship or as a school, college or other place of instruction (not being a dwelling- house so used) or
as a hospital, workhouse, public theatre, public cinema, public hall, public concert-room, public ballroom, public
lecture-room, public library or public exhibition room or as a public place of assembly, or *
(b)
for any other public purpose, or
(c)
as a hotel, lodging-house, refuge or shelter, where the building, in cubical extent, exceeds seven thousand cubic metres
or has sleeping accommodation for more than one hundred persons;
(81)
"Metropolitan Area" means an area having a population of ten lakhs or more comprised in one or more districts and
consisting of two or more municipalities or Panchayats or other contiguous area, specified by the State Government, by
Gazette Notification, to be a Metropolitan area for the purposes of this Act."
(82)
"Public Service Commission" means the Public Service Commission for the State of Bihar constituted under Article 315
of the Constitution of India;
(83)
"Public street" means any street, road, lane, gully, alley, passage, pathway, square or courtyard, whether a thoroughfare
or not, over which the public have a right of way, and includes-
(a)
the access or approach to a public ferry,
(b)
the roadway over any public bridge or causeway,
(c)
Page 7/183
----- PAGE 8 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
the footpath attached to any such street, public bridge or causeway;
(d)
the passage connecting two public streets;
(e)
the drains attached to any such street, public bridge or cause way and where there is no drain attached to any such
street shall be deemed to include also, unless the contrary is shown, all land up to the boundary wall, hedge or pillar of
the premises, if any, abutting on the street, or, where a street alignment has been fixed, up to such alignment;
(84)
"Regulations" means the Regulations made by a Municipality under this Act;
(85)
"rubbish" includes dust, ashes, broken bricks, mortar, broken glass, garden and stable refuse of any kind which is not an
"offensive matter" or "sewage" as defined in this Section;
(86)
"Rules" means the Rules made by the State Government under this Act;
(87)
"Sewage" means night-soil and other contents of privies, urinals, cesspools or drains, and includes trade effluents and
discharges from manufactories of all kinds;
(88)
"Slaughter-house" means any place used for the slaughter of cattle, sheep, goats, kids or pigs for the purpose of selling
the flesh thereof as meat;
(89)
"Smaller urban area" means a municipal area classified as a smaller urban area under Section 7;
(90)
"State Election Commission" means the State Election Commission constituted under Section 123 of the Bihar
Panchayati Raj Act, 2006 read with Article 243-ZA of the Constitution of India.
(91)
"Development Plan/Master Plan" means the draft Development Plan/ Master Plan and the final Development
Plan/Master Plan prepared under this Act;
(92)
"State Municipal Vigilance Authority" means the State Municipal Vigilance Authority appointed under Section 44;
(93)
"Street" means a public street or a private street;
(94)
"Street alignment" means the line dividing the land comprised in, and forming part of, a street from the adjoining land;
(95)
"Subject Committee" means a Subject Committee constituted under Section 32;
(96)
"Ward Committee" means a Ward Committee referred to in Section 31;
(97)
"Wards Committee" means a Wards Committee constituted under Section 30;
(98)
"water-course" includes a river, stream or channel, whether, natural or artificial;
(99)
"Year" means a Financial Year beginning on the first day of April;
(100)
"Backward Classes" means and includes the list of Backward Classes of Citizens Specified in Annexure 1 of the Bihar
Reservation of Vacancies in Post and Services (for SC, ST and other Backward Classes) Act 1991 (Bihar Act, 3/92)
(101)
[ "Action Taken Report" means the Report to be submitted by the Chief Municipal Officer on the action taken by the
Municipality under Section 94;]
[Substituted by Bihar Act No. 2 of 2014, dated 8.1.2014.]
Page 8/183
----- PAGE 9 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
(102)
[ "Area Sabha" means Area Sabha constituted under Section 31 of this Act;
[Added by Bihar Act No. 7 of 2011, dated 27.5.2011.]
(103)
"Basic Services for the Urban Poor" means water supply, sewerage and drainage, toilets, solid waste management,
streetlight, [shelter] and internal roads;
(104)
"Board of Councillors" means the elected body of the Municipality consisting of Councillors elected in general election
under Section- 12 of this Act or in a byelection of a Municipality;
(105)
"Examiner of Local Accounts" means the Examiner of Local Accounts under the Bihar and Orissa Local Fund Audit Act,
1925
(106)
"Government" means the State Government of Bihar;
(107)
"Lok Prahari" means Lok Prahari to be appointed under Section-44 of this Act
(108)
"Property Tax Board" means the Bihar Property Tax Board created under Section 138A of this Act;
(109)
"Slum" means a compact area of at least 100 people or about 20 households of poorly built congested tenements, in
unhygienic environment usually with inadequate infrastructure and lacking proper sanitation and drinking water facilities.
(110)
"Vacant Land" means any land acquired through purchase, gift or otherwise on which building is not constructed after
acquisition and also the appurtenant land of a building that exceed the permissible ground coverage under the building
bye-laws.]
Part II ? Constitution and Government
Chapter II
Constitution of Municipal Areas and Classification of Municipalities
3.
Declaration of intention to constitute a municipal area.
(1)
The State Government may, after making such inquiry as it may deem fit, and having regard to the population of any
urban area, density of population there in, the revenue generated for the local administration of such area, the
percentage of employment in non-agriculture activities in such area, the economic importance of such area, and such
other factors as may be prescribed, by notification, declare its intention to specify such area to be a larger urban area, or
a medium urban area, or a transitional area:
Provided that no such declaration shall be made unless the population
(a)
in the case of a larger urban area, is two lacs or more,
(b)
in the case of medium urban area, is forty thousand or more but is less than two lacs, and
(c)
in the case of a transitional area, that is a small town, is twelve thousand and more but not more than forty thousand:
"Provided further that the total population of main cultivator workers and marginal cultivator workers shall be below fifty
percent of total population of workers in such area in all cases" (Inserted by THE BIHAR MUNICIPAL (AMENDMENT)
ACT, 2020)
Explanation. - "Revenue generated for the local administration" shall not include-
(a)
taxes, if any, distributed to the Municipality by the State Government,
(b)
loans and grants from the State Government, and
Page 9/183
----- PAGE 10 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
(c)
loans and grants from the Central Government or institution or other source.
(2)
The State Government shall, by notification, declare an area specified as-
(i)
a larger urban area to be a city,
(ii)
a medium urban area to be a town, and
(iii)
a small town or transitional area to be a Nagar Panchayat or urban growth centre
(3)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), the State Government may, by notification, determine separate
conditions, to constitute any hill area, pilgrim centre, tourist centre or mandi as a municipal area.
4.
Publication of declaration.
(1)
The State Government may by a notification, published in the Official Gazette and in at least two leading newspapers, at
least one of which shall be in vernacular intelligible conveyed its intention to constitute a municipal area to the
inhabitants of the local area concerned.
(2)
A copy of the notification shall also be pasted at a conspicuous place in the office of the Collector of the district and,
where there is a Municipality, also in the office of the Municipality and in such other public places as the State
Government may direct.
(3)
Public proclamation about the constitution of a municipal area shall be made either by beating of drum throughout the
local area concerned or through any other publicity media.
5.
Consideration of objection.
- Any inhabitant of the city, town or Nagar Panchayat in respect of which a notification has been published under Section
4 may, object to anything contained in the notification and submit his objection in writing to the State Government within
one month from the date of its publication, the State Government shall take such objection into consideration.
6.
Constitution of Municipal Area.
- On the expiry of one month from the date of publication of notification under Section 4 and after consideration of all or
any of the objections which may be submitted, the State Government may, by notification, constitution such Large Urban
area, city, town or transitional area or any specified part thereof as a municipal area under this Act.
7.
Classification of Municipal areas.
- The State Government may, for the purpose of application of the provisions of this Act, classify any municipal area on
the basis of the population as ascertained at the last preceding census of which the relevant figures have been
published, as-
(a)
a larger urban area having population above 2,00,000
(b)
a medium urban area of-
Class 'A' municipal area having population above 1,50,000 but not exceeding 2,00,000, or
Class 'B' municipal area having population above 1,00,000 but not exceeding 1, 50,000, or
Class 'C' municipal area having population above 40,000 but not exceeding 1,00,000, and
(c)
transitional small urban area having population above 12,000 but not exceeding 40,000:
Provided that for the purpose of classification of municipal areas in any hill area, pilgrim centre, tourist centre or mandi
Page 10/183
----- PAGE 11 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
town, the government may, by notification, determine separate size of population for each class of such municipal areas.
8.
Power to abolish or alter limits of municipal area.
- The State Government may, by notification,-
(a)
withdraw any municipal area or part thereof from the operation of this Act, or
(b)
exclude from a municipal area any local area comprised therein and defined in the notification, or
(c)
include within a municipal area any local area contiguous to such municipal area and defined in the notification, or
(d)
divide any municipal area into two or more municipal areas, or unite two or more contiguous municipal areas so as to
constitute one municipal area, or
(f)
revise the boundary of two or more contiguous municipal areas: Provided that the procedure laid down for the
constitution of a municipal area under this Act shall be followed mutatis mutandis in each such case:
Provided further that the views of the Municipality affected by any such notification shall be invited by the State
Government within such time as may be specified in the notification, and the State Government shall consider the views
of the Municipality as aforesaid before a final declaration is made:
Provided also that no such notification shall be issued where any part of the municipal area or any neighbouring area is
a cantonment or part of a cantonment, as defined in the Cantonments Act, 1924.
9.
Power to include certain dwelling house, manufactory, etc. within a particular municipal area.
- Where a dwelling house, manufactory, warehouse, or place of industry or business is situated within the limits of two or
more adjacent municipal areas, the State Government may, notwithstanding anything contained elsewhere in this Act,
by notification, declare the municipal area within which such dwelling house, manufactory, warehouse, or place of
industry or business shall be deemed to be included for the purposes of this Act.
10.
Power to exempt municipal area from operation of any provisions of the Ordinance unsuited thereto.
(1)
The State Government may, by notification, and for reasons to be recorded in writing, exempt municipal areas from the
operation of any of the provisions of this Act considered unsuited thereto, and, thereupon, the said provisions shall not
apply to such municipal areas until such provisions are applied thereto by notification.
(2)
While a notification under sub-section (1) remains in force, the State Government may make Rules consistent with the
provisions of this Act in respect of any matter within the purview of such provisions from the operation of which the
municipal areas as aforesaid are exempted.
Chapter III
Municipality and Municipal Councillors
11.
The Municipality.
(1)
The Municipality shall consist of such number of elected Councillors as there are wards within the municipal area as
determined in accordance with the provisions made under Section 13 of this Act.
(2)
The Municipality shall be a body corporate with perpetual succession and a common seal, and may, by the name of the
Municipality of the city or the town or the Nagar Panchayat, as the case may be, by reference to which the Municipality
is known, sue and be sued.
(3)
All executive actions of the Empowered Standing Committee shall be expressed to be taken in the name of the
Municipality.
Page 11/183
----- PAGE 12 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
(4)
Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Municipality shall have the power to acquire, hold and dispose of properties.
12.
Constitution of Municipality.
(1)
Save as provided in sub-section (3) all the seats in the municipalities shall be filled by persons chosen by direct election
from the territorial constituencies in the municipal area and for this purpose, each Municipal area shall be divided into
territorial constituencies, known as wards.
(2)
(a)
In every Municipality as nearly as possible but not exceeding fifty percent of the total seats of the member of
Municipalities shall be reserved for
(i)
Scheduled Castes;
(ii)
Scheduled Tribes; and
(iii)
Backward Classes.
The number of seats so reserved for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes shall be as nearly as possible the same
proportion to the total number of seats to be filled up by direct election in that Municipality as the population of the
Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes bears to the total population of the area and such seats shall be allotted by
rotation to different constituencies in a Municipality under the direction, control and supervision of the State Election
Commission in the prescribed manner [after two Consecutive General Elections]
[ Inserted by Act 8 of 2009.]
.
After reservation of seats for the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes, the number of seats to be reserved for
the Backward Classes shall be as nearly as possible but not exceeding twenty percent of the total seats and within the
overall limit of fifty percent reservation for the Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled Tribes and the Backward Classes and
shall be allotted to the remaining constituencies in the prescribed manner. Such seats shall be allotted by rotation to
different constituencies in the municipality during subsequent elections [after two Consecutive General Elections]
[ Inserted by Act 8 of 2009.]
under the direction, control and supervision of the State Election Commission in the manner prescribed by it.
(b)
As nearly as possible but not exceeding fifty percent of the total number of seats reserved under sub-section [(a)]
[Substituted '(1)' by Bihar Act No. 7 of 2011, dated 27.5.2011.]
shall be reserved for women belonging to the Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled Tribes and the Backward Classes, as
the case may be.
(c)
As nearly as but not exceeding fifty percent of the total number of the seats not reserved for Scheduled Castes,
Scheduled Tribes and Backward Classes shall be reserved for women.
(d)
Such total number of seats reserved for women belonging to the Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled Tribes, the
Backward Classes and unreserved category may be allotted by rotation under the direction, control and supervision of
the State Election Commission, to different constituencies, in a Municipality in such mariner as may be prescribed by it.
[after two Consecutive General Elections]
[ Inserted by Act 8 of 2009.]
Explanation. - [For the removal of doubts it is, hereby, declared that the principle of rotation for the purpose of
reservation of offices for the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, Backward Classes, Women of Backward Classes
and Women of unreserved category under this sub-section shall commence from the first election held after the
commencement of the Bihar Municipal Act, 2007.]
[Substituted by Act 8 of 2009.]
Page 12/183
----- PAGE 13 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
(3)
Notwithstanding the provisions as contained in sub-section (2) the following shall also be members in a Municipality:-
(i)
the members of the House of People and members of the Legislative Assembly representing constituencies which
comprise wholly or partly the municipal area.
(ii)
the members of the Council of States and members of the State Legislative Council registered as electors within the
municipal area and members of State Legislative Council elected from the Local Bodies Constituencies of the municipal
area.
(4)
Every member of the Municipality shall have the right to vote in the meeting but in case of election and removal of the
Chief Councillor/Deputy Chief Councillor, only the members elected under sub-section (i) shall have the right to vote.
(5)
The Municipality shall, unless dissolved earlier, continue for a period of five years from the date of its first meeting after
the general election and no longer.
(6)
An election to constitute a Municipality shall be completed, as the case may be,-
(a)
before the expiry of the period specified in sub-section (5), or
(b)
before the expiry of a period of six months from the date of its dissolution:
Provided that where the remainder of the period for which the dissolved Municipality would have continued is less than
six months, it shall not be necessary to hold an election for constituting the Municipality for such period.
(7)
The Municipality constituted upon its dissolution before the expiration of the period specified in sub-section (5) shall
continue only for the remainder of the period for which the dissolved Municipality would have continued under
sub-section (5) had it not been so dissolved.
(8)
In a municipal area newly constituted, the local authority having jurisdiction over such area immediately before such
area was constituted as a municipal are, shall continue to have jurisdiction and to perform its functions till such time, not
exceeding six months from the date of the notification under Section 6, as may be necessary for holding elections.
(9)
If, for any reason, it is not possible to hold the general election of a Municipality before the expiry of the period of five
years specified in sub-section (5), the Municipality shall stand dissolved on the expiration of the said period, and all the
powers and functions vested in the municipal authorities under this Act or under any other law for the time being in force
shall be exercised or performed, as the case may be, by such person or persons to be designated as Administrator or
Board of Administrators as the State Government may, by notification, appoint.
13.
Composition of Municipality.
- Each Municipality shall consist of such number of Councillors/wards within the maximum limit as are specified in the
Table below determined by the State Government.
The Table
Number of Councillors/Wards
Population range
Minimum
Incremental Number
Maximum
Municipal Corporation
Above 10 lakh
Above 5 lakh upto 10 lakh
Above 2 lakh upto 5 lakh
Page 13/183
----- PAGE 14 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
67
57
45
One additional Councillor for every
75,000 above 10 lakh
One additional Councillor for every
50,000 above 5 lakh
One additional Councillor for every 25,000 above 2 lakh
75
67
57
Municipal Councils
Class 'A' Municipal Council
Class 'B' Municipal Council
Class 'C' Municipal Council
42
37
25
One additional Councillor for every
15,000 above 1,50,000
One additional Councillor for every
10,000 above 1 lakh
One additional Councillor for every 5,000 above 40,000
45
42
37
Nagar Panchayat
Nagar Panchayat
10
One additional Member for every 2,000 above 12,000
25
Provided that State Government shall determine the number of councillors for each municipality before every election,
by notification.
14.
Election of Councillors.
- Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the superintendence, direction and control of preparation of electoral
rolls for, and the conduct of, all elections of Councillors of the municipality in the State under this Act and the Rules
made thereunder shall be vested in the State Election Commission constituted under Section 123 of Bihar Panchayat
Raj Act, 2006 (Bihar Act 6, 2006)
15.
Oath of allegiance to be taken by Councillors.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in the Indian Oaths Act, 1873, every person who is elected as a Councillor shall,
before taking his seat, make and subscribe an oath or affirmation of his allegiance to the Constitution of India before,-
(a)
in the case of a Municipal Corporation, the Secretary to the State Government in-charge of municipal affairs or his
nominee not below the rank of a Deputy Secretary to the State Government, and
(b)
in the case of a Municipal Council or a Nagar Panchayat, the District Magistrate or the Magistrate-in charge of the
sub-division in which the municipal area is situated or an officer of the State Government authorized in this behalf by the
District Magistrate.
Page 14/183
----- PAGE 15 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
(2)
The oath shall be in the following form:-
"I having been elected a Councillor of the municipal area of............do swear in the name of God/solemnly affirm that I
will bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of India as by law established, and that I will faithfully discharge the
duties upon which I am about to enter.".
(3)
Any person who, having been elected a Councillor, fails to make and subscribe, within three months of the date on
which his term of office commences, the oath or affirmation under sub-section (1), shall cease to hold his office and his
seat shall be deemed to have become vacant:
Provided that the State Government may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, extend in each case or class of cases
the period of three months as aforesaid by such period as it thinks fit.
16.
Terms of office of councillors of municipality.
- Subject to the provisions of sub-section (6) or sub-section (7), as the case may be, of Section 12, a Councillor shall
hold office for a period of five years from the date of the first meeting of the Municipality under Section 35 or, in the case
of a Councillor chosen to fill a casual vacancy, for the remainder of the term of office of his predecessor, unless-
(a)
the Municipality is dissolved earlier, or
(b)
he resigns his office by notice, in writing, under his hand addressed to the Chief Councillor, and, thereupon, his office
shall become vacant from the date of the notice, or
(c)
his election is void, or is declared to be void, under the provisions of any law relating to municipal elections in the State,
or
(d)
the entire area of the ward from which he has been elected is withdrawn from the operation of this Act under clause (a)
of Section 8:,
(e)
[ Recalled under section- 17 of this Act, disqualified under section- 18 or section- 475 of this Act or removed under
section- 18 (A).]
[Added by Bihar Act No. 7 of 2011, dated 27.5.2011.]
16A.
[ Powers and functions of the Councillor.
[Added by Bihar Act No. 7 of 2011, dated 27.5.2011.]
(1)
to attend Municipality's meetings.
(2)
To carefully study the matters placed before the Municipality for consideration and take an active part in Municipality's
decision-making processes.
(3)
To take active part in determining Municipality's objectives and policies to ensure that they are appropriate for the local
area.
(4)
To carefully study Municipality's resource allocation, expenditure incurred and efficiency and effectiveness of its service
delivery especially to the poor and women and ensure equitable allocation of resources for service delivery to all
sections of society.
(5)
To bring to the Municipality’s attention anything falling within the Bihar Municipal Act, 2007 that would promote the
welfare of or protect the interests of the communities especially the poor.
(6)
To actively participate in Ward Committee meetings and facilitate preparation of development plans in consultation with
Page 15/183
----- PAGE 16 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
Ward communities especially the poor and the women.
(7)
To observe implementation of development plans and programmes in his Ward and bring to the notice of the
Municipality any gaps or shortcomings needing correction.
(8)
To help the Municipality in identification of beneficiaries of government programmers for the welfare of the communities,
especially the poor and the women.]
17.
Recall of Councillor.
(1)
Every Councillor shall be deemed to have vacated his office forthwith if he is recalled by means of secret ballot by a
majority of the total number of voters of the concerned ward of the municipal area casting the vote in accordance with
such procedure as may be prescribed:
[Provided that no process of recall shall be initiated unless two-thirds of the registered electors of any ward submit a
representation to the State Government alleging that the Councillor representing the Ward is unfit to continue in office]
[Substituted by Bihar Act No. 7 of 2011, dated 27.5.2011.]
Provided further that no such process of recall shall be initiated-
(i)
within a period of two years from the date on which a Councillor is elected and enters upon his office, or
(ii)
if half of the term of office of a Councillor elected in a bye-election has not expired:
Provided also that the process of recall of a Councillor shall be initiated only once during the term of his office.
[When the proposal to recall a Councillor is presented to the State Government under the first proviso to Sub-section (1),
the State Government after making such enquiry as deemed fit and satisfying itself that majority of the registered voters
of the ward desire the recall of the Councillor, shall make a reference to the state election commission]
[Substituted by Bihar Act No. 7 of 2011, dated 27.5.2011.]
(3)
On receipt of the reference under sub-section (2), the State Election Commission shall arrange for voting on the
proposal of recall.
(4)
[ if a Councillor is found guilty of misconduct in discharge of his duties, or if he is convicted of any such offence, or
subjected by a criminal court to any such order as implies moral turpitude which in the opinion of the State Government,
renders him unfit to be a Councillor, he shall be removed by the State Government after giving him an opportunity of
being heard.]
[Added by Bihar Act No. 7 of 2011, dated 27.5.2011.]
18.
Disqualifications.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, a person shall be disqualified for election or after election for holding the
post as member of the Municipality if such person-
(a)
is not a citizen of India;
(b)
is so disqualified by or under any law, for the time being in force, for the purpose of elections to the Legislature of the
State:
[Provided that no person shall be disqualified on the ground that he is less than twenty five years of age, if he has
attained the age of twenty one years.]
[Substituted by Bihar Act No. 7 of 2011, dated 27.5.2011.]
(c)
is in the service of the Central or State Government or any Local Authority;
(d)
Page 16/183
----- PAGE 17 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
is in the service of any such institution receiving aids from the Central or State Government or any local authority;
(e)
has been adjudged by a competent court to be of unsound mind;
(f)
has been dismissed from the service of the Central or State Government or any local authority for misconduct and has
been declared to be disqualified for employment in the public service;
(g)
has been sentenced by a criminal Court, whether within or without India, to imprisonment for an offence, other than a
political offence, for a term exceeding six months or has been ordered to furnish security for keeping good behaviour
under section-109 or Section 110 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Act 2,1974) and such sentence or order not
having subsequently been reversed; or absconding being an accused in a criminal case for more than six months.
(h)
has under any law for the time being in force become ineligible to be a member of any local authority;
(i)
holds any salaried office or office of profits under the Municipality;
(j)
has been found guilty of corrupt practices:
Provided that on being found guilty of corrupt practices, the disqualification shall cease after 6 (six) years of general
election;
(k)
if he has not paid all taxes due by him to the Municipality at the end of the financial year immediately preceding that in
which the election is held.
(l)
has been wilfully omits or refuses to perform his duties and functions or abuses the power vested in him or is found to be
guilty of misconduct in the discharge of his duties or become physically or mentally incapacitated for performing his
duties
(m)
If he has more than two living children:-
Provided that a person having more than two children on or upto the expiry of one year of the commencement of the
Act, shall not be deemed to be disqualified."
(n)
Has been absent from three consecutive meetings or sitting of the Municipality without having previously obtained
permission form the councillors at a meeting.
(2)
[ If any question arises as to whether a Member of a Municipality at any level was disqualified before election or has
incurred disqualification after election as provided in Article-243-V of the Constitution of India and subject to any of the
disqualification mentioned in section -475 or the subject to any of the disqualification mentioned in sub-section (1) of
section-18 the question shall be referred for the decision of State Election Commissioner. The matter of disqualification
may be brought to the notice of the State Election Commission in the form of a complaint, application or information by
any person or authority. The State Election Commission may also take suo-motu cognizance of such matters and decide
such matters expeditiously after allowing sufficient opportunity to the affected parties of being heard.]
[Substituted by Bihar Act No. 7 of 2011, dated 27.5.2011.]
(3)
If a person, who is chosen as a member of a Municipality, is or becomes a member of the Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha,
Legislative Assembly, Legislative Council or is or becomes a member of a Panchayat or Mukhia or Sarpanch then within
fifteen days from the date of commencement of the term of office of a member of the Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha,
Legislative Assembly, Legislative Council or a member of a Panchayat or Mukhia or Sarpanch, his seat in the
Municipality shall become vacant unless he has previously resigned his seat in the Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha, Legislative
Assembly, Legislative Council or Panchayat, as the case may be.
19.
Remuneration and allowances for Councillors.
Page 17/183
----- PAGE 18 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
- The Chief Councillor, the other members of the Empowered Standing Committee, and the other Councillors may
receive such remuneration and allowances as may be prescribed [by Government from time to time]
[Added by Bihar Act No. 2 of 2014, dated 8.1.2014.]
:
Provided that different rates may be prescribed for different classes of Municipalities.
Chapter IV
Municipal Authorities
20.
Municipal authorities.
(1)
The municipal authorities for the purposes of giving effect to the provisions of this Act shall be,-
(a)
in the case of larger urban area,-
(i)
the Municipal Corporation,
(ii)
the Empowered Standing Committee,
(iii)
the Mayor, and
(iv)
the Municipal Commissioner;
(b)
in the case of a Class 'A' or Class B' or Class 'C' medium urban area,-
(i)
the Municipal Council,
(ii)
the Empowered Standing Committee,
(iii)
the Municipal Chairperson, and
(iv)
the Municipal Executive Officer;
(c)
in the case of a transitional or smaller urban area,-
(i)
the Nagar Panchayat,
(ii)
the Empowered Standing Committee,
(iii)
the Municipal President, and
(iv)
the Municipal Executive Officer.
(2)
The presiding officer of the Municipality shall be, in the case of-
(a)
the Municipal Corporation, the Mayor,
(b)
the Municipal Council, the Municipal Chairperson, and
(c)
the Nagar Panchayat, the Municipal President.
21.
Constitution of Empowered Standing Committee of Municipality.
Page 18/183
----- PAGE 19 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
(1)
In every Municipality there shall be an Empowered Standing Committee.
(2)
The Empowered Standing Committee shall consist of-
(a)
in the case of a Municipal Corporation, the Mayor, the Deputy Mayor, and seven other Councillors;
(b)
in the case of a Class 'A' or Class 'B' Municipal Council, the Municipal Chairperson, the Municipal Vice Chairperson, and
five other Councillors;
(c)
in the case of a Class 'C' Municipal Council, the Municipal Chairperson, the Municipal Vice-Chairperson, and three other
Councillors; and
(d)
in the case of a Nagar Panchayat, the Municipal President, the Municipal Vice-President, and three other Councillors.
(3)
The other members of the Empowered Standing Committee shall be nominated by the Chief Councillor from among the
Councillors elected under sub section (1) of Section 12 within a period of seven days of his entering office.
(4)
The other members of the Empowered Standing Committee shall assume charge after taking the oath of secrecy under
Section 24.
(5)
The Chief Councillor shall be the Presiding Officer of the Empowered Standing Committee.
(6)
The manner of transaction of business of the Empowered Standing Committee shall be such as may be prescribed.
(7)
The Empowered Standing Committee shall be collectively responsible to the Municipal Corporation or the Municipal
Council or the Nagar Panchayat, as the case may be.
22.
Executive power of Municipality to be exercised by Empowered Standing Committee.
- Subject to the provisions of this Act and the Rules and the Regulations made thereunder, the executive power of a
Municipality shall be exercised by the Empowered Standing Committee.
23.
Election of Chief Councillor and Deputy Chief Councillor.
(1)
The Councillors shall, in the first meeting under Section 35, [under supervision, direction and control of the State
Election Commission, elect]
[Substituted 'elect in accordance with such procedure as may be prescribed' by Bihar Act No. 7 of 2011, dated
27.5.2011.]
from amongst the Councillors to be the Chief Councillor and Deputy Chief Councillor who shall assume office forthwith
after taking the oath of secrecy under Section 24.
(2)
[ If the Councillors fail to elect a Chief Councillor under Sub-section (1), the State Government shall suspend the Board
of Councillors and appoint an Administrator. The Board of Councillors shall remain suspended till such time the
Councillors elect the Chief Councillor or till the tenure of the municipal Councilors is over, whichever is earlier.]
[Substituted by Bihar Act No. 7 of 2011, dated 27.5.2011.]
(3)
In the case of any casual vacancy in the office of the Chief Councillor [or, deputy chief councillor]
[Added by Bihar Act No. 7 of 2011, dated 27.5.2011.]
caused by death, resignation, removal or otherwise, the Councillors shall, in accordance with such procedure as may be
prescribed, elect one of the Councillors to fill up the vacancy [and the Chief Councillor or the Deputy Chief Councillor so
elected shall continue in office for the unexpired term of his predecessor]
Page 19/183
----- PAGE 20 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
[Inserted by Bihar Act No. 7 of 2011, dated 27.5.2011.]
.
(4)
[ If any casual vacancy occurs in the office of the Member of the Empowered Standing Committee, the Chief Councillor
shall as soon as may, after the occurrence of such vacancy, nominate one of the elected members of the Municipality to
fill the vacancy and every Councillor so nominated shall continue in office for the unexpired term of his predecessor.]
[Added by Bihar Act No. 7 of 2011, dated 27.5.2011.]
24.
Oath of secrecy to be taken by Chief Councillor and members of Empowered Standing Committee of God/solemnly.
(1)
The Chief Councillor and the members of the Empowered Committee of Municipality shall assume office after taking the
oath of secrecy in the following form:-
"I,.........do swear in the name of God/solemnly affirm that I will not directly or indirectly communicate or reveal to any
person or persons any matter which shall be brought under my consideration or shall become known to me as the
Presiding Officer Or as a member of the Empowered Standing Committee except as may be required for the due
discharge of my duties."
(2)
The oath of secrecy shall be administered by,-
(a)
in the case of a Municipal Corporation, the Secretary to the State Government in-charge of municipal affairs or his
nominee not below the rank of a Deputy Secretary to the State Government, and
(b)
in the case of a Municipal Council or Nagar Panchayat, the District Magistrate or the Magistrate-in-charge of the
sub-division in which the municipal area is situated or an officer of the State Government authorized in this behalf by the
District Magistrate.
25.
Removal of Chief Councillor/Deputy Chief Councillor.
(1)
The Chief Councillor/Deputy Chief Councillor shall ceased to hold office as such if he ceases to be a Councillor.
(2)
The Chief Councillor may resign his office by writing under his hand addressed to the [Government]
[Substituted 'Divisional Commissioner' by Bihar Act No. 2 of 2014, dated 8.1.2014.]
and Deputy Chief Councillor may resign his office by writing under his hand addressed to the Chief Councillor.
(3)
Every resignation under sub-section(2) shall take effect on the expiry of seven days from the date of such resignation,
unless within the said period of seven days he withdraws such resignation by writing under his hand addressed to the
[Government]
[Substituted 'Divisional Commissioner' by Bihar Act No. 2 of 2014, dated 8.1.2014.]
or the Chief Councillor, as the case may be.
(4)
The Chief Councillor/Deputy Chief Councillor may be removed from office by a resolution carried by a majority of the
whole number of Councillors holding office for the time being at a special meeting to be called for this purpose in the
manner prescribed, upon a requisition made in writing by not less than one-third of the total number of Councillors, and
the procedure for the conduct of business in the special meeting shall be such as may be prescribed:
Provided that a no confidence motion shall not be brought against the Chief Councillor/Deputy Chief Councillor within a
period of two years of taking over the charge of the post:
Provided further that a no confidence motion shall not be brought again within one year of the first no confidence motion:
Provided further also that no confidence motion shall not be brought within the residual period of six months of the
municipality.
(5)
"Without prejudice to the provisions under this Act, if, in opinion of the [Government]
Page 20/183
----- PAGE 21 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
[Substituted 'Divisional Commissioner' by Bihar Act No. 2 of 2014, dated 8.1.2014.]
having territorial jurisdiction over the Municipality the Chief Councillor/Deputy Chief Councillor absents himself without
sufficient cause for more than three consecutive meetings or sittings or wilfully omits or refuses to perform his duties and
functions under this Act, or is found to be guilty of misconduct in the discharge of his duties or becomes physically or
mentally incapacitated for performing his duties or is absconding being an accused in a criminal case for more than six
months, the [Government]
[Substituted 'Divisional Commissioner' by Bihar Act No. 7 of 2011, dated 27.5.2011.]
may, after giving the Chief Councillor/Deputy Chief Councillor a reasonable opportunity for explanation, by order,
remove such Chief Councillor from office.
[Provided that after appointment of Lok Prahari, under section-44, the Government, may pass order under this
sub-section only on the basis of recommendation of such Lok Prahari.]
[Added by Bihar Act No. 7 of 2011, dated 27.5.2011.]
(6)
The Chief Councillor/Deputy Chief Councillor so removed, shall not be eligible for re-election as Chief Councillor/Deputy
Chief Councillor or Councillor during the remaining term of office of such Municipality.
[***]
[Deleted 'Appeal shall lie before the State Government against the order of the Divisional Commissioner.' by Bihar Act
No. 7 of 2011, dated 27.5.2011.]
26.
Deputy Chief Councillor.
(1)
The Deputy Chief Councillor shall, in the absence of the Chief Councillor, preside over the meetings of the Municipality.
(2)
When-
(a)
the office of the Chief Councillor falls vacant by reason of death, resignation, removal or otherwise, or
(b)
the Chief Councillor is, by reason of leave, illness or other cause, temporarily unable to exercise the powers, perform the
functions, or discharge the duties, of his office, the Deputy Chief Councillor shall exercise the powers, perform the
functions, and discharge the duties, of the Chief Councillor until a Chief Councillor is elected under subsection (3) of
Section 23 and enters office or until the Chief Councillor resumes his duties.
(3)
The Deputy Chief Councillor shall, at any time, exercise such other powers, perform such other functions, and discharge
such other duties, as may be delegated to him under the provisions of this Act.
27.
[ The term of office of the Chief Councillor and the members of Empowered Standing Committee.
[Substituted by Bihar Act No. 7 of 2011, dated 27.5.2011.]
(1)
Members of the Empowered Standing Committee as provided for in subsection (2) of section 21 of this Act and other
members nominated by the Chief Councillor under subsection (3) of section 21 of this Act shall hold office until-
(a)
he ceases to be a Councillor, or
(b)
he resigns his office by writing under his hand addressed to the Chairman in which case the resignation shall take effect
from the date of its acceptance by the Chairman, or
(c)
he is removed from office by a written order of the Chairman, or provided that no member of empowered State
Committee shall be removed from his post within two yeas of his nomination.
(d)
a newly elected Chief Councillor under sub-section (3) of section 23 enters upon his office in the case of any casual
vacancy in the office of the Chairman of the Empowered Standing Committee caused by death, resignation, removal or
Page 21/183
----- PAGE 22 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
otherwise.
(2)
The newly elected Chief Councillor under sub-section (3) of section 23 of this Act shall reconstitute the Empowered
Standing Committee by nominating Members under sub-section (3) of Section 21.]
28.
Delegation of Powers and Functions.
(1)
The Municipality may, by resolution, delegate, subject to such conditions as may be specified in the resolution, any of its
powers or functions to the Empowered Standing Committee.
(2)
The Empowered Standing Committee may, by order in writing, delegate, subject to such conditions as may be specified
in the order, any of its powers or functions to the Chief Councillor or to the Chief Municipal Officer.
(3)
Subject to such standing orders as may be made by the Empowered Standing Committee in this behalf-
(a)
the Chief Councillor may, by order, delegate, subject to such conditions as may be specified in the order any of his
powers or functions to the Deputy Chief Councillor or the Chief Municipal Officer;
(b)
the Chief Municipal Officer may, by order, delegate, subject to such conditions as may be specified in the order, any of
his powers or functions, excluding the powers or functions under sub-section (2) of Section 354 or Section 365, to any
officer or other employee of the Municipality; and
(c)
any officer of the Municipality, other than the Chief Municipal Officer, may, by order, delegate, subject to such conditions
as may be specified in the order, any of his powers or functions to any other officer subordinate to him.
(4)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Section, the Empowered Standing Committee, the Chief Councillor, the Chief
Municipal Officer, or the other officer referred to in clause (c) of sub-section (3), shall not delegate-
(a)
any of its or his powers or functions delegated to it or him under this Section, or
(b)
such of its or his powers or functions as may be specified by Regulations.
29.
Reservation of office of Chief Councillor.
(1)
The office of the Chief Councillor in municipalities shall be reserved in the following manner:-
(a)
For the post of Chairman of every Municipality, as nearly as but not exceeding fifty percent of the total seats of
Chairman in the State shall be reserved for
(i)
Scheduled Castes;
(ii)
Scheduled Tribes; and
(iii)
Backward Classes.
Within the State, seats shall be reserved for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes for the posts of Chairman and the
number of seats so reserved shall bear as nearly as possible the same proportion of the total number of seats of
Chairman within the State as the population of the Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes bears to the total population of
the State and such seats shall be allotted by rotation to different Municipalities by the State Election Commission in the
manner prescribed [after two Consecutive General Elections]
[Inserted by Act 8 of 2009.]
by it.
Page 22/183
----- PAGE 23 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
After reservation of seats of Chairman for the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes, the number of seats to be
reserved for the Backward Classes shall be as nearly as possible but not exceeding twenty percent of the total seats
and within the overall limit of fifty percent reservation for the Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled Tribes and the Backward
Classes and shall be allotted to the remaining Municipalities by the State Election Commission in the manner prescribed
by it. Such seats shall be allotted by rotation to different municipalities during subsequent elections [after two
Consecutive General Elections]
[Inserted by Act 8 of 2009.]
under the direction, control and supervision of the State Election Commission in the manner prescribed by it.
(b)
As nearly as but not exceeding fifty percent of the total number of seats reserved under sub-section (1) shall be
reserved for women belonging to the Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled Tribes and the Backward Classes, as the case
may be.
(c)
As nearly as but not exceeding fifty percent of the total number of the seats not reserved for Scheduled Castes,
Scheduled Tribes and Backward Classes shall be reserved for women.
(d)
Such total number of seats reserved for women belonging to the Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled Tribes, the
Backward Classes and unreserved category may be allotted by rotation under the direction, control and supervision of
the State Election Commission to different Municipalities in such manner as may be prescribed [after two Consecutive
General Elections]
[Inserted by Act 8 of 2009.]
by it.
Explanation. - [For the removal of doubts it is, hereby, declared that the principle of rotation for the purpose of
reservation of offices for the Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribes, Backward Classes, Women of Backward Classes and
Women of unreserved category under this subsection shall commence from the first election held after the
commencement of the Bihar Municipal Act, 2007.]
[Substituted by Act 8 of 2009.]
(2)
The reservation of seats under sub-section (1) shall cease to have effect on the expiration of the period specified in
Article 344 of the Constitution of India.
30.
Wards Committee.
(1)
Every Municipal Corporation having a population of three lacs or more may, at its first meeting after the election of
Councillors thereto or as soon as may be thereafter, group the wards of the Corporation in such manner that each group
consists of not less than three wards, and constitute a wards committee for each such group.
(2)
Each Wards Committee shall consist of the Councillors elected from the wards constituting the group.
(3)
A Councillor of the Wards Committee representing a constituent Ward shall hold office till he ceases to be the Councillor
representing such Ward.
(4)
The Councillors of each Wards Committee shall elect from amongst: themselves one Councillor, who shall not be a
member of the Empowered Standing Committee, to be its Chairperson.
(5)
The Chairperson of a Wards Committee may, at any time, resign his office by giving notice in writing to the Mayor and
the resignation shall take effect from the date of acceptance by the Mayor.
(6)
A Wards Committee shall, subject to the general supervision and control of the Empowered Standing Committee,
discharge, within the local limits of the group of wards, the functions of the Municipality relating to the provision of
supply-pipes and drainage and sewerage connections to premises, removal of accumulated water on the streets or
Page 23/183
----- PAGE 24 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
public places due to rain to otherwise, collection and removal of solid wastes, disinfection, provision of health
immunization services and slum services, provision of lighting, repair to category IV and category V roads, maintenance
of parks, drains and gullies, issue of licenses under sub-section (1) of Section 369, and such other functions as the
Municipality may, from time to time, determine by Regulations.
(7)
The Empowered Standing Committee shall assign to a Wards Committee such number of officers and other employees
as it deems fit and shall designate one of such officers as the Wards Officer of such Wards Committee.
(8)
The manner of transaction of business of the Wards Committee: shall be such as may be determined by Regulations.
(9)
Subject to such conditions, if any, as may be specified by Regulations, a Wards Committee may conduct public hearing
on any major issue of public interest.
31.
Ward Committee.
(1)
Each ward of a Municipality shall have a Ward Committee.
(2)
The Councillor elected from a ward shall be the Chairperson of the Ward Committee for that Ward.
(3)
The Ward Committee may include not more than ten persons representing the civil society from the ward, nominated by
the Municipality:
Provided that if the population of the Ward is not more than ten thousand, the number of other members shall be four,
and, thereafter, there shall be one additional member of every four thousand population or part thereof:
Provided further that in reckoning the number of additional members of the Ward Committee exceeding four, any part of
less than two thousand population may be ignored.
Explanation. - For the purposes of this Section, "civil society" shall mean any non-government organization or
association or person, established, constituted or registered under any law for the time being in force and working for
social welfare, and shall include any community-based organization, professional institution and civic, health,
educational, social or cultural body, and such other association or body as the Municipality may decide.
(4)
The Ward Committee shall perform such functions, and in such manner, as may be specified by Regulations.
32.
Subject Committee.
(1)
A Municipal Corporation or a Class 'A' Municipal Council may, from time to time, constitute Subject Committees
consisting of Councillors to deal with the following matters, namely:-
(a)
water-supply drainage and sewerage, and solid waste management;
(b)
urban environment management and land use control; and
(c)
slum services.
(2)
The Mayor, the Deputy Mayor, and the members of the Empowered Standing Committee of a Municipal Corporation, or
the Municipal Chairperson, the Municipal Vice-Chairperson, and the members of the Empowered Standing Committee of
a Class 'A' Municipal Council, as the case may be, shall not be members of any Subject Committee.
(3)
Each Subject Committee shall consist of-
(a)
seven members in the case of a Subject Committee of a Municipal Corporation, and
(b)
Page 24/183
----- PAGE 25 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
five members in the case of a Subject Committee of a Class 'A' Municipal Council.
(4)
The manner of the constitution and the transaction of business of a Subject Committee shall be such as may be
specified by Regulations.
(5)
The term of a Subject Committee shall be not less than two years.
(6)
The Chairperson of a Subject Committee shall be elected by its members from amongst themselves in the manner
specified by Regulations:
Provided that a member shall not be eligible for election as Chairperson for more than two terms.
(7)
Each Subject Committee shall exercise such powers, and perform such functions, as may be specified by Regulations.
(8)
The recommendations of a Subject Committee shall be submitted to the Empowered Standing Committee for its
consideration.
33.
Ad hoc Committee.
(1)
The Empowered Standing Committee may, from time to time, appoint an Ad hoc Committee to perform such functions,
or conduct such enquiries, or undertakes such studies including reports thereon, as may be specified by a resolution in
this behalf.
(2)
Any person, who is not a Councillor but possesses special qualifications useful for the purpose of an Ad hoc Committee,
may be associated therewith as its member.
(3)
The manner of transaction of business in an Ad hoc Committee shall be such as may be laid down by the Empowered
Standing Committee.
34.
Joint Committee.
(1)
The State Government may, if it considers it necessary so to do, constitute a Joint Committee for more than one
Municipality, or for one or more Municipalities with other local authority or local authorities, for any purpose in which they
are jointly interested or for delegating to it any power or function which calls for joint action.
(2)
The Joint Committee shall consist of the following members-
(i)
two elected members of each constituent Municipality or local authority,
(ii)
one nominee of each of the concerned departments of the State Government or of the concerned Statutory Authorities
under the State Government,
(iii)
such expert or experts as the State Government nominate, and
(iv)
the Director of Local Bodies or his representative shall act as the convener of the Joint Committee.
(3)
The procedure of transaction of business by a Joint Committee shall be such as may be prescribed.
35.
First meeting of Municipality.
(1)
The first meeting of a Municipality after the general election of Councillors to the Municipality shall be convened within
thirty days from the date of publication of the names of elected Councillors in the Official Gazette under the provisions of
Page 25/183
----- PAGE 26 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
any relating to municipal elections in the State.
(2)
Seven days' notice shall be given for the meeting.
(3)
In the case of a Municipal Corporation, the meeting shall be convened by the Secretary to the State Government in
charge of municipal affairs or any other officer not below the rank of a Deputy Secretary to the State Government, duly
authorized by him.
(4)
In the case of a Municipal Council or a Nagar Panchayat, meeting shall be convened by the District Magistrate or any
other Executive Magistrate authorized by the District Magistrate in this behalf.
Chapter V
Organizational Structure of Municipality
A. Statutory Officers of Municipality
36.
Officers of Municipality.
(1)
Subject to the provisions of Section 41 and need for ensuring maximum possible economy in municipal administration,
the Municipality shall have the following posts of Officers namely-
(a)
in the case of Municipal Corporation,-
(i)
the Municipal Commissioner, an Officer of Indian Administrative Service or Bihar Administrative Service,
(ii)
the Controller of Municipal Finances and Accounts, a senior Audit Officer/Accounts Officer from Accountant General
Office or senior member of Bihar Finance Service,
(iii)
the Municipal Internal Auditor,
(iv)
the Chief Municipal Engineer,
(v)
the Municipal Architect and Town Planner,
(vi)
the Chief Municipal Health Officer,
(vii)
the Municipal Law Officer,
(viii)
the Municipal Secretary,
(ix)
three Additional Municipal Commissioners, preferably in the rank of A.D.M. but not below the rank of S.D.M. of Bihar
Administrative Service, and
(x)
Such number of Joint Municipal Commissioners or Deputy Municipal Commissioners or Deputy Chief Municipal
Engineers as the Empowered Standing Committee may, from time to time, determine, and
(b)
in the case of a Municipal Council or Nagar Panchayat,-
(i)
the Municipal Executive Officer,
(ii)
the Municipal Finance Officer,
(iii)
the Municipal Engineer,
Page 26/183
----- PAGE 27 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
(iv)
the Municipal Health Officer,
(v)
the Municipal Secretary, and
(vi)
such other officers as may be designated by the State Government in this behalf:
Provided that the State Government may reduce the number of posts of the officers as aforesaid:
Provided further that the State Government may re-designate any of the posts of the officers as aforesaid.
(2)
Appointments of officers mentioned in sub-section (1) may be made either on a regular basis or on a contract basis for
such term as the Empowered Standing Committee may consider necessary.
(3)
At the requests of the Empowered Standing Committees of more than one Municipality, the State Government may, by
order, provide for sharing of services of officers referred to in sub-section (1) by such Municipalities, and on such terms
and conditions, as may be specified in the order.
(4)
Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), appointments of officers referred to in sub-section (1) for different posts as
may be specified by Regulations shall be made-
(a)
by the State Government in consultation with the Empowered Standing Committee by notification from amongst the
persons who are or have been in the service of that Government, or
(b)
by the Empowered Standing Committee with the prior approval of the State Government from amongst the officers who
are or have been in the municipal service of any Municipality, or
(c)
by the Empowered Standing Committee with the prior approval of the State Government and in consultation with the
State Public Service Commission:
Provided that the appointments to the posts as aforesaid shall be on such terms and conditions, and for such period not
exceeding five years in the first instance, as the State Government may determine:
Provided further that the State Government may, in consultation with the Empowered Standing Committee, extend the
period of appointment to the posts as aforesaid from time to time.
[The method of, and the qualifications required for, recruitment, and the terms and conditions of service including
conduct, discipline and control of officers and other employees referred to in sub-section (1) of section 36 shall be such
as may be prescribed under Rules]
[Added by Bihar Act No. 2 of 2014, dated 8.1.2014.]
(5)
Until cadres of common municipal services for the State are constituted under sub-section (1) of Section 43, the
Empowered Standing Committee may determine which of the posts of officers referred to in clause (b) of sub-section (1)
of this Section are necessary for Municipal Council or a Nagar Panchayat, and, with the prior approval of the State
Government, create posts of, and appoint, such officers and fix the salaries and allowances to be paid to such officers.
(6)
The method of, and the qualifications required for, recruitment, and the terms and conditions of service including
conduct, discipline and control, of officers appointed by the Empowered Standing Committee shall be such as may be
prescribed.
(7)
Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing provisions of this Section, the State Government may, at any time,
in the case of any person appointed to any post referred to in sub-section (1), terminate his appointment:
Provided that if, in the case of any such officer, the empowered Standing Committee so decides, the State Government
shall terminate the appointment of such officer.
(8)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (2) or sub-section (3), prior approval of the State Government shall
Page 27/183
----- PAGE 28 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
be necessary in the case of appointment of a person not recommended by the State Public Service Commission.
(9)
No person above the age of sixty years shall be appointed to any post in a Municipality.
B. Municipal Establishment and Schedule of Posts
37.
Establishment of Municipality and schedule of posts.
(1)
The posts of officers and other employees of the Municipality, other than those referred to in sub-section (1) of Section
36, shall constitute the municipal establishment.
(2)
The Municipality shall, by Regulation, classify the posts of officers and other employees constituting the establishment of
the Municipality into four categories, namely, category 'A' post, category 'B' post, category 'C' post, and category post,
on the basis of the scales of pay of such posts.
(3)
The Municipality shall prepare, and maintain, a schedule of posts of officers and other employees constituting the
establishment of the Municipality, to be called Establishment Schedule, and such Establishment Schedule shall include
the designation, and the number of posts under each designation, and shall be in three parts of which Part I shall include
category, A' posts, Part II shall include category 'B1 posts, and Part III shall include category 'C' posts and category 'D'
posts.
(4)
Every year the Chief Municipal Officer shall place before the Empowered Standing Committee for its consideration the
Establishment Schedule along with the proposals for such changes therein as he may consider necessary:
Provided that no upward revision of the size of the establishment of the Municipality shall be made without the prior
sanction of the State Government.
(5)
The Empowered Standing Committee shall, after consideration of the Establishment Schedule along with the proposals,
if any, for changes therein, place the same along with its recommendations, if any, before the Municipality for approval
prior to the presentation of the budget estimates to the municipality by the Chief Councillor,
(6)
The Chief Municipal Officer shall revise the Establishment Schedule as approved by the Municipality.
(7)
The Empowered Standing Committee may sanction any category 'C' post or category 'D' posts for a period not
exceeding six months:
Provided that no such post shall be sanctioned unless there is a provision in this behalf in the budget estimates of the
Municipality.
(8)
Subject to such norms regulating the size of a municipal establishment as may be fixed by the State Government from
time to time, no post of an officer or other employee of the municipality shall be created by the Municipality without the
prior sanction of the State Government, if the number of posts to be so created in a year for a Municipality is more than
one per cent of the total number of sanctioned posts of officers and other employees in existence in the year
immediately preceding:
Provided that the number of posts as may be admissible for creation in a year without the prior sanction of the State
Government after the commencement of this Act, if not created in that year, may be carried forward to the next year,
subject to a maximum of ten.
(9)
The recruitment to the posts of officers and other employees of the Municipality not required to be made through the
Public Service Commission shall be made through the local Employment Exchange or through such other method as the
State Government may determine from time to time.
(10)
Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing provisions of this Section or elsewhere in this Act, the Empowered
Standing Committee may decide to engage on contract basis, officers and other employees of the Municipality against
Page 28/183
----- PAGE 29 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
such posts of officers and other employees referred to in sub-section (1) of Section 37.
38.
Appointing Authorities.
- Subject to the other provisions of this Act, the appointing authority in respect of the posts of officers and other
employees constituting the establishment of the Municipality shall be,-
(a)
in the case of category, 'A' posts, the Chief Municipal Officer,
(b)
in the case of category 'B' posts,-
(i)
an Additional Municipal Commissioner or a Joint Municipal Commissioner, in the case of a Municipal Corporation, or
(ii)
the Municipal Executive Officer, in the case of a Municipal Council or a Nagar Panchayat, and
(c)
in the case of category 'C' posts and category 'D' posts, such officer or officers of the Municipality as the Chief Municipal
Officer may, with the prior approval of the Empowered Standing Committee, designate in this behalf.
39.
Salaries and allowances of officers and other employees.
(1)
All officers and other employees of a Municipality including the officers referred to in Section 36 shall receive salaries
and allowances out of the Municipal Fund:
(2)
The Municipality may also provide for pension, gratuity, provident fund, incentive, bonus, reward or penalty for its
officers and other employees in accordance with such Rules, norms, scales and conditions as may be prescribed.
40.
Leave and other conditions of service.
- All officers and other employees of the Municipality shall be subject to such conditions of service including leave and
other benefits or obligations, not specifically provided for in this Act, as may be prescribed.
[40A
[Added by Bihar Act No. 2 of 2014, dated 8.1.2014.]
The State Government may make provisions by framing Service Rules for different categories of officers and other
employees of the Municipality for recruitment, service conditions, posting, transfer, promotion, disciplinary action and
other related aspects of municipal service and municipal personnel management.]
41.
Appointment of officers of the State Government for Municipalities.
- Notwithstanding anything contained elsewhere in this Act, the State Government may appoint an officer of that
Government possessing such qualifications as may be determined by it for a Municipal Corporation or class of Municipal
Councils or Nagar Panchayat as Municipal Executive Officer, Municipal Finance Officer, Municipal Engineer or Municipal
Health Officer referred to in sub-section (1) of Section 36 or with such designation as the State Government may
consider necessary, and in such manner, and on such terms and conditions of service, as may be determined by the
State Government in this behalf.The expenditure on account of salaries and allowances of any such officer shall be
borne by the State Government:
Provided that the officer so appointed shall be under the administrative control of the Empowered Standing Committee
and may be withdrawn by the State Government suo motu or if a resolution to that effect is passed by the Councillors at
a meeting called for this purpose by a two third majority of the total number of Councillors holding office for the time
being.
C. Municipal Establishment Audit Commission
42.
Municipal Establishment Audit Commission.
- For the purpose of review of the existing establishment of the Establishment in the State, and for fixing norms and
standards of manpower for different tasks performed at various levels of Municipalities, and for performance of similar
Page 29/183
----- PAGE 30 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
other functions, the State Government may constitute a Municipal Establishment Audit Commission in such manner and
consisting of a Chairperson and such other members, and on such terms and conditions, as may be prescribed.
D. Municipal Services Cadres
43.
Cadres of common municipal services, appointments etc.
(1)
The State Government may constitute cadres of common municipal services of such officers of municipality referred to
in sub-section (1) of Section 36 and other employees as may be determined by that Government from time to time.
(2)
The Director of Local Bodies shall be the appointing authority of all officers borne in the cadres of common municipal
services and shall be the authority to transfer such officers and other employees of the municipality from one
Municipality to another.
E. State Municipal Vigilance Authority
44.
State Municipal Vigilance Authority.
(1)
The State Government may, by notification, entrust the responsibilities to the State Vigilance Bureau, for inquiring into
any complaint of corruption, misconduct, lack of integrity or any other kind of malpractice or misdemeanour on the part
of any officer or other employee of a Municipality and for taking such suitable legal actions in accordance with law.
Chapter VI
Functional Domain of Municipalities
45.
Core Municipal Functions.
(1)
Every Municipality shall-
(a)
provide on its own or arrange to provide through any agency the following core municipal services:-
(i)
water-supply for domestic, industrial, and commercial purposes,
(ii)
drainage and sewerage,
(iii)
solid waste management,
(iv)
preparation of plans for [economic]
[Inserted by Bihar Act No. 2 of 2014, dated 8.1.2014.]
development and social justice,
(v)
communication systems, construction and maintenance of roads, footpaths, pedestrian pathways, transportation
terminals, both for passengers and goods, bridges, over-bridges, subways, ferries, and inland water transport system,
(vi)
transport system accessories including traffic engineering schemes, street furniture, street lighting, parking areas, and
bus stops,
(vii)
community health and protection of environment including planting and caring of trees on road sides and elsewhere,
(viii)
markets and slaughterhouses,
(ix)
promotion of educational, sports and cultural activities, and
(x)
aesthetic environment, and
Page 30/183
----- PAGE 31 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
(xi)
[ Provision of basic services for urban poor and urban poverty alleviation.]
[Added by Bihar Act No. 2 of 2014, dated 8.1.2014.]
(b)
perform such other statutory or regulatory functions as may be provided by or under this Act or under any other law for
the time being in force.
(2)
The Municipality may, having regard to its managerial, technical financial and organization capacity, and the actual
conditions obtaining in the municipal area, decide not to take up, or postpone, the performance of, any of the functions
as aforesaid.
(3)
The State Government may direct a Municipality to perform any of the functions as aforesaid, if such function is not
taken up, or is postponed, by the Municipality.
(4)
The Municipality may plan, build, operate, maintain or manage the infrastructure required for the discharge of any of the
functions, as aforesaid, either by itself or by any agency under any concession agreement referred to in Section 166.
46.
Functions assigned by the Government.
- The Municipality may, subject to the underwriting of the costs by, and approval of, the Central Government or the State
Government, as the case may be, undertake any function belonging to the functional domain of the Central Government
or the State Government as the case may be, and such functions may include primary education, curative health,
transport, supply of energy, [economic empowerment of urban poor, creation of livelihood opportunities]
[Substituted 'arrangements for fire prevention and fire safety' by Bihar Act No. 2 of 2014, dated 8.1.2014.]
, and urban poverty alleviation.
47.
Other functions.
- A Municipality may, having regard to the satisfactory performance of its core functions, which shall constitute the first
charge on the Municipal Fund, and subject to its managerial, technical and financial capabilities, undertake or perform,
or promote the performance of, any of the following functions:-
(1)
in the sphere of town planning, urban development and development of commercial infrastructure,-
(a)
planned development of new areas for human settlement,
(b)
measures for beautification of the municipal area by setting up parks and fountains, providing recreational areas,
improving river banks, and landscaping,
(c)
collection of statistics and data, significant to the community, and
(d)
integration of the development plans and schemes of the municipal area with the district or regional development plan, if
any;
(2)
in the sphere of protection of environment,-
(a)
reclamation of waste lands, promotion of social forestry and maintenance of open spaces,
(b)
establishment and maintenance of nurseries for plants, vegetables and trees and promotion of greenery through mass
participation,
(c)
organization of flower-shows and promotion of flower-growing as a civic culture, and
(d)
Page 31/183
----- PAGE 32 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
promotion of measures for abatement of all forms of pollution;
(3)
in the sphere of public health and sanitation,-
(a)
mass inoculation campaigns for eradication of infectious diseases,
(b)
construction and maintenance of municipal markets and slaughterhouses and regulation of all markets and
slaughterhouses,
(c)
reclamation of unhealthy localities, removal of noxious vegetation and abatement of all nuisances,
(d)
maintenance of all public tanks and regulating the re-excavation, repair and up-keep of all private tanks, wells and other
sources of water-supply on such terms and conditions as the Municipality may deem proper,
(e)
construction and maintenance of cattle pounds,
(f)
provision for unfiltered water-supply for non-domestic uses,
(g)
advancement of civic consciousness of public health and general welfare by organizing discourses, seminars and
conferences, and
(h)
measures for eradication of addiction of all kinds including addiction to drugs and liquor;
(4)
in the sphere of education and culture,-
(a)
promotion of civic education, adult education, social education and non-formal education,
(b)
promotion of cultural activities including music, physical education, sports and theatres and infrastructure therefore,
(c)
advancement of science and technology in urban life,
(d)
publication of municipal journals, periodicals and souvenirs, purchase of books, and subscription to 'C' journals,
magazines and newspapers,
(e)
installation of statues, portraits and pictures in appropriate manner,
(f)
organization, establishment and maintenance of art galleries and botanical or zoological collections, and
(g)
maintenance of monuments and places of historical, artistic and other importance;
(5)
in the sphere of public welfare,-
(a)
establishment and maintenance of shelters, in times of drought, flood, earthquake, or other natural technological
disasters, and relief works, for, destitute persons within the limits of the municipal area, .
(b)
construction or maintenance of, or provision of to, hospitals, dispensaries, asylums, rescue homes, maternity houses,
and child welfare centres,
(c)
provision of shelter for the homeless,
(d)
implementation programmes for liberation and rehabilitation of scavengers and their families,
Page 32/183
----- PAGE 33 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
(e)
organization of voluntary labour and co-ordination of activities of voluntary agencies for community welfare, and
(f)
campaigns for dissemination of such information, vital for public welfare; and
(6)
in the sphere of community relations,-
(a)
civic receptions to persons of distinction and paying homage on death to persons of repute,
(b)
organization and management of fairs and exhibitions, and
(c)
dissemination of information of public interest.
Chapter VII
Conduct of Business
A. Transaction of Business by Municipality
48.
Meetings.
(1)
The Municipality shall meet not less than once in every month for the transaction of its business.
(2)
The Chief Councillor may, whenever he thinks fit, and shall, upon a requisition in writing by not less than [2/5th]
[Substituted 'one-fifth' by Bihar Act No. 7 of 2011, dated 27.5.2011.]
of the Councillors, convene a meeting of the Municipality by [within fifteen days]
[Inserted Bihar Act No. 7 of 2011, dated 27.5.2011.]
.
(3)
If the Chief Councillor fails to call the requisition meeting provided in subsection (2), the meeting may be called by the
persons who signed the requisition.
49.
Notice of meeting and list of business.
- A list of business to be transacted at every meeting of the Municipality, except at an adjourned meeting, shall be sent
to the registered address of each Councillor at least seventy-two hours before the time fixed for such meeting, and no
business shall be brought before, or transacted at, any meeting other than the business of which notice has been so
given:
Provided that any emergent business may be brought before, and transacted in the meeting with the permission of the
Chief Councillor:
Provided further that any Councillor may send or deliver to the Municipal Secretary notice of any resolution so as to
reach him at least forty-eight hours before the time fixed for the meeting, and the Municipal Secretary shall, with all
possible despatch, take steps to circulate such resolution to every Councillor in such manner as he may think fit:
Provided also that no business, which has no relevance to the business of the Municipality, shall be brought before the
Municipality.
Explanation.- For the purposes of this Section, "registered address" shall be the address for the time being entered in
the register of addresses of Councillors to be maintained by the Municipal Secretary.
50.
Quorum for transaction of business at a meeting of Municipality and method of deciding question.
(1)
The quorum necessary for the transaction of business at a meeting of the Municipality shall be "1/3"
[Substituted 'one-fifth' by Bihar Act No. 7 of 2011, dated 27.5.2011.]
of the total number of meeting of Councillors.
(2)
If at any time during a meeting of the Municipality there is no quorum, it shall be the duty of the person presiding over
Page 33/183
----- PAGE 34 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
such meeting either to adjourn the meeting or to suspend the meeting until there is a quorum.
(3)
Where a meeting has been adjourned under sub-section (2), [The presiding authority shall fix date, time and place for
the same as he shall think convenient which shall not be earlier than three days from the date of adjournment.
A notice of adjournment exhibited in the municipal office on the day on which the meeting is adjourned shall be sufficient
notice of the subsequent meeting.]
[Inserted by Bihar Act No. 7 of 2011, dated 27.5.2011.]
the business which would have been brought before such meeting shall be brought before, and may be transacted at,
the adjourned meeting, and no quorum shall be necessary for such adjourned meeting.
(4)
All matters required to be decided at a meeting of the Municipality shall, save as otherwise provided in this Act, be
determined by a majority of votes of the Councillors present and voting.
(5)
The voting shall be by show of hands, provided that the Municipality may, subject to such Regulations as may be made
by it, resolve that any question, or class of questions, shall be decided by secret ballot.
(6)
At any meeting of the Municipality, where a poll is taken on a resolution before it, the votes of all the Councillors present,
who desire to vote shall be taken under the direction of the Presiding Officer of such meeting, who shall declare such
resolution to have been carried or lost, as the case may be, in accordance with the result of such poll.
(7)
At any meeting of the Municipality, unless a poll is demanded by at least one-tenth of the Councillors present, a
declaration by the Presiding Officer of such meeting has a resolution has been carried or lost in such meeting, and an
entry to that effect in the minutes of the proceedings of such meeting shall, for the purposes of this Act, be conclusive
evidence of the fact that such resolution has been carried or lost, as the case may be.
51.
Presiding Officer of a meeting of Municipality.
(1)
The Chief Councillor shall preside at every meeting of the Municipality and in his absence the Deputy Chief Councillor
shall preside the meeting [and if both the chief Councillor and Deputy Chief Councillor are absent form the meeting, the
members present shall choose one of their members to preside;]
[Inserted by Bihar Act No. 7 of 2011, dated 27.5.2011.]
:
Provided that when a meeting is held to consider a motion for the removal of the Chief Councillor, the Chief Councillor
shall not preside at such meeting.
[Provided further that if the meeting is convened for the removal of both Chief Councillor and Deputy Chief Councillor,
the members present shall choose one of the members to preside.]
[Added by Bihar Act No. 7 of 2011, dated 27.5.2011.]
(2)
The Chief Councillor, or the person presiding over a meeting of the Municipality, shall also have, and may exercise, a
casting vote in all cases of equality of votes.
52.
Maintenance of order at a meeting of Municipality and withdrawal and suspension of councillors.
(1)
The Presiding Officer of meeting of the Municipality shall preserve order thereat and shall have all the powers necessary
for the purpose of preserving such order.
(2)
The Presiding Officer of a meeting may direct any Councillor, whose conduct is, in his opinion, grossly disorderly, to
withdraw immediately from the meeting, and every Councillor so directed shall do so forthwith and shall absent himself
during the remainder of the meeting.
(3)
If any Councillor is ordered to withdraw a second time, the Presiding Officer may warn such Councillor of the action that
Page 34/183
----- PAGE 35 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
may be taken under this sub-section and may thereafter, if necessary, suspend such Councillor from attending the
meetings of the Municipality for any period not exceeding sixty days, and the Councillor so suspended shall absent
himself accordingly:
Provided that the Chief Councillor may at any time decide that such suspension be terminated:
Provided further that a Councillor shall not, so long as he is debarred from attending any meeting of the Municipality,
attend any meeting of any committee of the Municipality,
(4)
In the case of grave disorder arising in a meeting, the Presiding Officer may, if he thinks necessary so to do, adjourn the
meeting to a date specified by him.
53.
Councillor having pecuniary interest in any contract etc. with Municipality.
(1)
If a Councillor has any pecuniary interest, direct or indirect, in any having contract or proposed contract with or without
employment under, or other matter concerning, the Municipality and is present at any meeting of the Municipality or of a
committee thereof at which such contract or employment or other matter is subject of consideration, he shall, as soon as
practicable after the commencement of such meeting, disclose the fact regarding such contract or employment or other
matter, and shall not take part in the consideration or discussion of, or vote on, any question with respect to such
contract or employment or other matter:
Provided that the provisions of this Section shall not apply to a Councillor or having interest as a tax-payer or inhabitant
of the municipal area or consumer of water or having an interest in any matter relating to any civic service to the public.
(2)
For the purposes of this Section, a Councillor shall be deemed to have an indirect pecuniary interest in a contract or
employment or other matter, if he or his nominee is a member of any company or other body with which the contract is
made or is proposed to be made or which has a direct pecuniary interest in the employment or other matter under
consideration, or if he is partner in a firm with which, or is in employment under a person with whom, the contract is
made or is proposed to be made, or if such firm or person has a direct pecuniary interest in the employment or other
matter under consideration:
Provided that:-
(i)
the provisions of this sub-section shall not apply to a Councillor who is a member of, or is in employment under, any
public institution or organization under any law for the time being in force, and
(ii)
a Councillor shall not, by reason of his membership of a company or other body, be treated as having any pecuniary
interest in such company or other body if he has no beneficial interest in any share or stock of such company or other
body.
(3)
In the case of a Councillor who is married and lives with his spouse, the interest of one shall be deemed, for the
purposes of this Section, to be the interest of the other.
Explanation. - For the purposes of this Section and Section 54, "Company" shall mean any body corporate, and shall
include a firm or other association of individuals.
54.
Disclosure of pecuniary interest.
(1)
A Councillor may give to the Municipal Secretary a notice to the effect that he or his spouse is a member of a company
or is a partner in a firm or is in the employment under a person, and if any contract is made or is proposed to be made
with such company or firm or person, such notice shall, unless and until it is withdrawn, be deemed to be a sufficient
disclosure of his interest in such contract or proposed contract which may be the subject of consideration at a meeting of
the Municipality after the date of the notice.
(2)
The Municipal Secretary shall record in a book, to be kept for the purpose, particulars of any disclosure made under
sub-section (1) of Section 53 and of any notice given under sub-section (1) of this Section, and the book shall be open at
Page 35/183
----- PAGE 36 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
all reasonable hours for the inspection of any Councillor.
55.
Meeting to be ordinarily open to public.
(1)
Every meeting of the Municipality shall be open to the public, unless a majority of Councillors present at the meeting
decides by a resolution, which shall be put by the Presiding Officer either on his own motion or at the request of any
such Councillor, that any enquiry or deliberation pending before the Municipality shall be held in private.
(2)
The Municipality may make Regulations providing for the admission of strangers to its meeting and for the removal by
force, if necessary, of any stranger for interrupting or disturbing the proceedings of the meeting.
56.
Right of Chief Municipal Officer and other Officers to attend meeting of Municipality and Committees etc.
- The Chief Municipal Officer, or any other officer of the Municipality authorized by him in writing in his behalf, may
attend any meeting of other officers to the Municipality or of any of its Committees.
57.
Right of Councillors to ask questions.
(1)
A Councillor may, subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), ask the Empowered Standing Committee questions on
any matter relating to the administration of the Municipality or municipal governance, and all such questions shall be
addressed to the Empowered Standing Committee and shall be answered either by the Chief Councillor or by any other
member of the Empowered Standing Committee.
(2)
The right to ask a question shall be1 governed by the following conditions, namely:-
(a)
not less than seven working days' notice, in writing, specifying the question shall be given to the Municipal Secretary;
(b)
no question shall-
(i)
bring in any name or statement not strictly necessary to make the question intelligible,
(ii)
contain arguments, ironical expressions, imputations, epithets or defamatory statements,
(iii)
ask for an expression of opinion or the solution of a hypothetical proposition,
(iv)
ask as to the character or conduct of any person except in his official or public capacity,
(v)
relate to matter which is not primarily the concern of the Municipality,
(vi)
make or imply a charge of a personal character,
(vii)
raise questions of policy too large to be dealt with within the limits of an answer to a question,
(viii)
repeat in substance questions already answered or to which an answer has been refused,
(ix)
ask for information on trivial matters,
(x)
ask for information on matters of past history,
(xi)
ask for information set forth in accessible documents or in ordinary works of reference,
(xii)
raise matters under the control of bodies or, persons not primarily responsible to the Municipality, or
Page 36/183
----- PAGE 37 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
(xiii)
ask for any information on any matter which is under adjudication by a court of law.
(3)
The Presiding Officer shall disallow any question, which is, in his opinion, in contravention of the provisions of
sub-section (2).
(4)
If any doubt arises whether any question is or is not in contravention of the provisions of sub-section (2), the matter shall
be decided by the Presiding Officer, whose decision shall be final.
(5)
The Chief Councillor or any member of the Empowered Standing Committee shall not be bound to answer a question
seeking information which has been communicated to him or to the Empowered Standing Committee in confidence or if,
in his opinion, it cannot be answered without prejudice to the public interest.
(6)
Unless otherwise directed by the Presiding Officer of the meeting, every question shall be answered at a meeting of the
Municipality.
58.
Discussion on urgent public matters.
(1)
Any Councillor may give notice of raising discussion on a matter of urgent public Importance to the Municipal Secretary,
stating clearly the matter to be raised.
(2)
Such notice, supported by the signatures of at least two other Councillors, shall reach the Municipal Secretary at least
forty-eight hours before the date on which such discussion is sought, and the Municipal Secretary shall immediately
place it before the Chief Councillor and circulate the notice among the Councillors in such manner as he may think fit.
(3)
The Chief Councillor may admit for discussion such notice as may appear to him to be of sufficient public importance
and allow such time for discussion as he may consider appropriate.
(4)
There shall be no formal resolution or voting on such discussion.
59.
Asking for statement from Empowered Standing Committee.
(1)
Any Councillor may ask for a statement from the Empowered Standing Committee on an urgent matter relating to the
administration of the Municipality by giving notice to the Municipal Secretary at least one hour before the
commencement of the meeting of the Municipality on any day.
(2)
The Chief Councillor or a member of the Empowered Standing Committee may either make a brief statement on the
same day or fix a date for making such statement.
(3)
Not more than two such matters shall be raised at the same meeting and, in the event of more than two matters being
raised priority shall be given to the matters which are, in the opinion of the Chief Councillor, more urgent and important.
(4)
There shall be no debate on such statement at the time it is made.
B. Minutes and Proceedings
60.
Keeping of minutes and proceedings.
- Minutes of each meeting of the Municipality and of a committee of the Municipality recording therein the names of the
Councillors present at such meeting and the proceedings of each such meeting shall be drawn up and entered in a book
to be kept for that purpose and shall be laid before the next meeting of the Municipality or such committee, as the case
may be, and signed at such meting by the Presiding Officer thereof.
61.
Page 37/183
----- PAGE 38 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
Circulation and inspection of minutes.
- Minutes of the proceedings of each meeting of the Municipality shall be circulated to all the Councillors ans shall, at all
reasonable times, be available at the office of the Municipality for inspection by any Councillor, free of cost, and by any
other person on payment of such fees as the Municipality may determine.
62.
Forwarding of minutes to the State Government.
(1)
The Municipal Secretary shall forward to the State Government a copy of the minutes of the proceedings of each
meeting of the Municipality or a Committee of the Municipality as early as possible.
(2)
The State Government may, in any any case, call for a copy or copies of all or any of the papers laid before the
Municipality or any Committee of the Municipality and, thereupon, the Municipal Secretary shall forward to the State
Government a copy or copies of such Paper or papers.
63.
Rules relating to conduct of business of the Municipality.
- The State Government may, by Rules, provide for such matters, not provided in this Act, relating to the conduct of
business of the Municipality or of its committees, as it may deem necessary.
C. Validation
64.
Validation of acts and proceedings.
(1)
No act or proceeding of the Municipality or of any Committee of the Municipality shall be called in question merely on the
ground of-
(a)
the existence of any vacancy in, or any defect, initial or subsequent, in the constitution of, the Municipality or any
committee of the Municipality, or
(b)
any Councillor having voted or taken part in any proceeding in contravention of the provisions of Section 55, or
(c)
any defect or irregularity not affecting the merit of any case to which such defect or irregularity relates.
(2)
Every meeting of the Municipality or any committee of the Municipality, the minutes of the proceedings of which have
been duly signed under Section 62, shall be deemed to have been duly convened and to be free from any defect or
irregularity.
Chapter VIII
Direction and Control
65.
Power of State Government to call for the Records etc.
- The State Government may, at any time, require any municipal authority-
(a)
to produce any record, correspondence, or other documents,
(b)
to furnish any return, plan, estimate, statement, accounts, or, statistics, and
(c)
to furnish or obtain any report and thereupon such municipal authority shall comply with such requirement.
66.
Power of State Government to depute officers to make inspection or examination and report.
- The State Government may depute any of its officers to inspect or examine any department, office, service, work or
property of the Municipality and to report thereon, and such officer may, for the purpose of such inspection or
examination, exercise all the powers of the State Government under Section 65:
Provided that such officer shall be not below the rank of-
Page 38/183
----- PAGE 39 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
(a)
a Deputy Secretary to the State Government in the case of a Municipal Corporation, and Municipal Council of class "A"
and "B",
(b)
an Under Secretary to the State Government in the case of a Class 'C' Municipal Council or Nagar Panchayat, as the
case may be.
67.
Power of State Government to require Municipal Authorities to take action.
- If, after considering the records required under Section 65, or the Report under Section 66, or any information received
by Government the State Government is of opinion that-
(a)
any action taken by a Municipal Authority is unlawful or irregular or any duty imposed on such authority by or under this
Act has not been performed or has been performed in an imperfect, insufficient or unsuitable manner, or
(b)
adequate financial provision has not been made for the performance of any duty under this Act, the State Government
may, by order, annal such action, or require such Municipal Authority to regularize such unlawful or irregular action or
perform such duty or restrain such authority from taking such unlawful or irregular action or direct such authority to
make, to the satisfaction of the State Government or within such period as may be specified in the order, arrangement,
or financial provision, as the case may be, for the proper performance of such duty:
Provided that the State Government shall, unless in its opinion the immediate execution of such order is necessary,
before making an order under this Section, give such Municipal Authority, in writing, an opportunity of showing cause,
within such period as may be specified by the State Government, why such order should not be made.
"Provided that it shall be lawful for the State Government in the larger public interest to issue such direction to the
Municipal Authorities as may be deemed fit and proper, and the Muncipal Authorities will be expected to follow such
direction." (Inserted by THE BIHAR MUNICIPAL (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2020 )
68.
Power of State Government to provide for enforcement of order under Section 67.
(1)
If no action has been taken in accordance with the order under Section 67 within the period specified therein or if no
cause has been shown under the proviso to that Section or if the cause shown is not to the satisfaction of the State
Government, the State Government may make arrangement for the taking of such action and may direct that all
expenses connected therewith shall be defrayed from the Municipal Fund.
(2)
For the purposes of sub-section (1), it shall be lawful for the State Government to appoint, for such period as the State
Government may think fit, any person considered suitable by it, who shall exercise and perform, subject to such
directions as the State Government may issue from time to time, all or any of the powers and functions of the Municipal
Authorities necessary to implement the order under Section 67.
69.
Power of State Government to dissolve Municipality.
(1)
If, in the opinion of the State Government, the Municipality has shown its incompetence, or has persistently made
default, in the performance of the duties, or in the exercise of the functions, imposed on it by or under this Act or any
other law for the time being in force, or has exceeded or abused its powers, or is unable to function under the provisions
of this Act, the State Government may, subject to the provisions of subsection (2), by an order published in the Official
Gazette, and stating the reasons therefore, declare the Municipality to be incompetent or in default or to have exceeded
or abused its powers, as the case may be, and dissolve it for such period, not exceeding six months, and with effect
from such date, as may be specified in the order.
(2)
(a)
Before making any order under sub-section (1) a notice shall be given by the State Government to the Municipality
calling upon it to submit representation, If any, against the proposed order within such period as may be specified in the
Page 39/183
----- PAGE 40 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
notice.
(b)
On receipt of such representation, if any, the State Government shall constitute a committee consisting of five persons
nominated by the State Government, of whom-
(i)
one shall be a member of the State Higher Judicial Service who shall be the Chairperson of the committee,
(ii)
one shall be the Chief Councillor of any other Municipality of the same class,
(iii)
one shall be a Chartered Accountant or a person having experience in financial matters,
(iv)
one shall be an Engineer, and
(v)
one shall be an officer of the State Government, not below the rank of a Sub-divisional Officer, and shall forward the
representation to the committee for its consideration and report within such time as the State Government may specify.
(c)
The State Government shall, on receipt of the report from the committee, consider the representation:
Provided that notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), no order of dissolution of the Municipality shall be
made without giving the Municipality an opportunity of being heard.
70.
Consequences of dissolution.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or in any other law for the time being in force, with effect from the date of
the order of dissolution under sub-section (1) of Section 79,-
(a)
all the Councillors including the members of the Empowered Standing Committee and of any committee of the
Municipality constituted under this Act, and the Chief Councillor and the Deputy Chief Councillor shall vacate their
respective offices, and
(b)
all the powers and duties which, under the provisions of this Act or the Rules or the Regulations made thereunder or any
other law for the time being in force, may be exercised or performed by the members of the Empowered Standing
Committee or of any Committee of the Municipality or the Chief Councillor, shall be exercised or performed, subject to
such directions as the State Government may give from time to time, by such person or persons as the State
Government may appoint in this behalf:
Provided that when the State Government appoints more than one person to exercise any powers or perform any duties,
it may, by order, and in such manner as it thinks fit, allocate such powers and duties among the persons so appointed:
Provided further that the State Government shall fix the remuneration of such person or persons, and may direct that
such remuneration shall, in each case, be paid out of the Municipal Fund.
(2)
For the avoidance of doubts, it is hereby declared that an order of dissolution under sub-section (1) of Section 69 shall
not effect or imply in any way the dissolution of the Municipality as a body corporate.
Part III ? Financial Management of Municipalities
Chapter IX
Municipal Finance and Municipal Fund
71.
Implementation of recommendations of State Finance Commission.
- After taking into consideration the recommendations of the State Finance Commission constituted under Article 243Y,
read with Article 243-I, of the Constitution of India, the State Government shall determine-
(a)
the devolution of net proceeds of the taxes, duties, tolls and fees to the Municipalities,
(b)
Page 40/183
----- PAGE 41 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
the assignment of taxes, duties, tolls and fees to the Municipalities,
(c)
the sanction of grants-in-aid to the Municipalities from the Consolidated Fund of the State, and
(d)
the other measures required to improve the financial position of the Municipalities.
72.
Financial assistance from State Government.
(1)
The State Government, may, from time to time, give grants or financial assistance to the Municipality with or without
direction to the manner in which such grants or financial assistance shall be applied.
(2)
The State Government may, for giving such grants or assistance, lay down a scheme which may include the conditions
of release of such grants or assistance and may provide for the division of Municipalities into different classes for that
purpose.
(3)
The State Government may give grants to the Municipality for implementation, in full or in part, of. any scheme included
in the annual development plan of the Municipality.
73.
Municipal Fund.
(1)
There shall be a fund to be called the Municipal Fund which shall be held by the Municipality in trust for the purposes of
this Act, and all moneys realized or realizable under this Act and all moneys otherwise received by the Municipality shall
be credited thereto.
(2)
Subject to such directions as the State Government may issue in this behalf, and keeping in view the classification of
municipal areas under Section 7, the receipts and expenditures of the Municipality shall be kept under such heads of
accounts, including those for water-supply, drainage and sewerage, solid waste management, road development and
maintenance, slum services, commercial projects and other account heads as may be specified and the general account
head, in such manner, and in such Form, as may be prescribed, so as to facilitate the imposition of user charges and
preparation of any subsidy report under this Act.
Explanation.- For the purposes of this Section, "commercial projects" shall include municipal markets, market
development projects, property development projects, and such other projects of commercial nature as may be specified
by the Municipality from time to time.
(3)
Every head of account specified under sub-section (1) shall be split up into a revenue account and a capital account and
all items of receipts and expenditures shall be kept appropriately under such revenue account or capital account, as the
case may be.
Chapter-X Application of Municipal Fund
74.
Application of Municipal Fund.
- The money credited to the Municipal Fund from time to time shall be applied for payment of all sums, charges and
costs necessary for carrying out the purposes of this Act and the Rules and the Regulations made thereunder and for
payment of all sums payable out of the Municipal Fund under any other law for the time being in force.
75.
Payments not to be made out of Municipal Fund unless covered by budget grant.
- The Chief Municipal Officer shall have powers to make payment of any sum out of the Municipal Fund or enter into any
contract involving any expenditure-provided such payment or expenditure is covered by a current budget grant and a
sufficient balance of such budget grant is available, notwithstanding any reduction or transfer thereof under the
provisions of this Act:
Provided that this Section shall not apply to any payment in the following cases:
(a)
Page 41/183
----- PAGE 42 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
refund of taxes and other money which are authorized by this Act,
(b)
repayment of money belonging to contractors or other persons and held in deposit and all money collected by the
Municipality or credited to the Municipal Fund by mistake,
(c)
temporary payment for works urgently required by the State Government in the public interest,
(d)
expenses incurred by the Municipality on special measures on the outbreak of dangerous diseases, natural or
technological hazards or in any other emergent case,
(e)
sums payable as compensation under this Act or the Rules or the Regulations made thereunder,
(f)
sums payable-
(i)
under orders of the State Government on failure of the Municipality to take any action required by the State Government
under any provision of this Act, or
(ii)
under any other law for the time being in force, or
(iii)
under the decree or order of a civil or criminal court against the Municipality, or
(iv)
under a compromise of any claim, suit or other legal proceeding, or
(v)
on account of the cost incurred in taking immediate action by any of the Municipal Authorities to avert a sudden threat or
danger to the property of the Municipality or to human life, and
(g)
such other cases as may be determined by Regulations.
Provided further that no contract involving an expenditure exceeding ten lakh rupees but not exceeding twenty five lakh
rupees in case of a Municipal Corporation, five lakh rupees but not exceeding twelve lakhs in case of a Municipal
Council or two lakhs but not exceeding five lakhs in case of a Nagar Panchayat shall be made by the Chief Municipal
Officer unless it has been sanctioned by the Empowered Standing Committee:
Provided further that no contract involving an expenditure exceeding twenty five lakh rupees in case of a Municipal
Corporation, twelve lakhs in case of a Municipal Council or five lakhs in case of a Nagar Panchayat shall be made by the
Chief Municipal Officer unless it has been sanctioned by the Municipal Corporation or Municipal Council or Nagar
Panchayat as the case may be.
[Provided further that the department may change the aforesaid expenditure limits by notification issued from time to
time.]
[Added by Act 8 of 2009.]
76.
Procedure when money not covered by budget grant is paid.
-  Whenever any sum is paid in any of the cases referred to in the proviso to Section 75, the Chief Municipal Officer shall
forthwith communicate the circumstances of such payment to the Empowered Standing Committee, and, thereupon, the
Empowered Standing Committee may take, or recommend to the Municipality to take, such action under the provisions
of this Act as may appear to it to be feasible and expedient for covering the amount of such payment.
77.
Temporary payment from Municipal Fund for works urgently required in public interest.
(1)
On a requisition, in writing, by the State Government, the Empowered Standing Committee, at any time, may require the
Chief Municipal Officer to undertake the execution of any work certified by the State Government to be urgently required
in the public interest and, for this purpose, to make payment for such work from the Municipal Fund in so far as such
payment may be made without unduly interfering with the regular work of the Municipality.
Page 42/183
----- PAGE 43 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
(2)
The cost of all work so executed, and the proportionate establishment charges for executing such work, shall be paid by
the State Government and credited to the Municipal Fund.
(3)
On receipt of a requisition under sub-section (1), the Empowered Standing Committee shall forthwith forward a copy
thereof to the Municipality together with a report of the steps taken in pursuance of the said requisition.
78.
Power to incur expenditure beyond the limits of the Municipality.
-  Notwithstanding anything contained elsewhere in the Chapter, the Municipality may, with the approval of the State
Government, authorize expenditure to be incurred beyond the limits of the municipal area for creation of physical assets
relating to the core functions of the Municipality outside the limits of such municipal area and for maintenance thereof for
carrying out the purposes of this Act.
79.
Exclusive use of fund for particular purpose.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained elsewhere in this chapter, the State Government may, by order, require the
municipality to earmark a particular portion of the Municipal Fund or a particular grant or a part thereof, or any item of
receipt under any head of account, or any percentage thereof, or any share of tax receivable by the Municipality other
than taxes, duties and fines assigned to the Municipality under this Act or any part thereof, to be utilized exclusively for
such purpose related to municipal functions as may be specified by the State Government, and it shall be the duty of the
Municipality to act accordingly.
(2)
The State Government may, for carrying out the purposes of sub-section 1, make Rules for different classes of
Municipalities.
[Provided further that the State Government shall be competent to issue appropriate direction to urban local self-bodies
for undertaking any scheme or project or any other work including identifying any agency for overall development of the
urban area within the jurisdiction of such urban bodies irrespective of the source of the fund in respect of any item
included in the Twelfth Schedule to the Constitution of India:
Proviso to sub-section (2) of Section 79 shall be deemed to be included in Bihar Municipal Act, 2007 (Bihar Act
No. 11 of 2007
) with effect from the date of its enforcement and any action taken by the State Government shall be deemed to have
been taken in exercise of power conferred under above proviso]
[Added by Act 8 of 2009.]
.
80.
Operation of accounts.
- Subject to the other provisions of this Act, payment from the Municipal Fund shall be made in such manner as may be
determined by Regulations, and the heads of accounts referred to in Section 73 shall be operated by such officers of the
Municipality as may be authorized by the Municipality by Regulations.
81.
Investment of surplus money.
(1)
Surplus money standing at the credit of any of the heads of accounts of the Municipal Fund which are not required,
either immediately or at an early date, to be applied for the purposes of this Act by the Municipality, may, in accordance
with such Regulations as may be made by the Municipality in this behalf, be transferred by the Municipality, either in
whole or in part, to any other head of account of the Municipal Fund:
Provided that no such money shall be transferred permanently from any of the heads of accounts to any other head of
account without the previous approval of the Municipality:
Provided further that such surplus money standing at the credit of the Commercial Projects Account of the Municipal
Fund shall not be transferred to the General Account of the Municipal Fund.
(2)
Page 43/183
----- PAGE 44 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
Surplus money which are not transferred under sub-section (1) may be invested in public securities or small savings
schemes, approved by the State Government, or deposited at interest with such Scheduled Bank as maybe determined
by the Empowered Standing Committee.
(3)
Profit or loss, if any, arising from the investment as aforesaid shall be credited or debited, as the case may be, to the
account to which such profit or loss relates.
Chapter XI
Budget Estimates
82.
Preparation of budget estimate of Municipality.
(1)
The Chief Municipal Officer shall prepare in each year a budget estimate alongwith an establishment Schedule of the
Municipality for the ensuing year, and such budget estimate shall be an estimate of the income and expenditure of the
Municipality.
(2)
Subject to the provisions of Section 10 and sub-section (2) of Section 73, the budget estimate shall separately state the
income and the expenditure of the Municipality to be received and incurred in terms of the various heads of accounts,
(3)
The budget estimate shall state the rates at which various taxes, surcharges cesses and fees shall be levied by the
Municipality in the year next following,
(4)
The budget estimate shall state the amount of money to be raised as loan during the year next following,
(5)
The Chief Councillor shall present the budget estimate to the Municipality on the 15th day of February in each year or as
soon thereafter as possible,
(6)
The budget estimate shall be prepared, presented and adopted in such Form and in such manner, and shall provide for
such matters, as may be prescribed,
(7)
The annual statements prepared under sub-section (2) of Section 105 and sub-section (1) of Section 117 together with
the reports prepared under sub-section (1) of Section 81 and under sub-section (2) of Section 249 shall be enclosed
with the budget estimate.
(8)
[ The budget estimate shall earmark a minimum of 25% of financial resources towards provision of basic services to
urban poor;
(9)
The budget estimate shall be prepared on cash basis showing no deficit i.e. opening balances plus all receipts less all
expenditures must not result in negative cash balances;]
[Added by Bihar Act No. 2 of 2014, dated 8.1.2014.]
[[10]
[Added by Bihar Act No. 7 of 2011, dated 27.5.2011.]
Budget estimate shall be prepared, presented and adopted in such Form and in such manner, as may be prescribed.]
83.
Report on services provided at subsidised rate.
(1)
The Chief Municipal Officer shall, while preparing the budget estimate, append thereto a report indicating whether the
following services are being provided as a subsidized rate and, if so, the extent of the subsidy, the reasons there for, the
source from which the subsidy is being met, and the Sections or categories of the local population who are the
beneficiaries of such subsidy, namely:.
(a)
water-supply and disposal of sewage, and
Page 44/183
----- PAGE 45 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
(b)
scavenging, transporting and disposal of solid wastes.
Explanation. - A service shall be construed as being provided at a subsidized rate if its total cost, comprising the
expenditure on operation and maintenance and adequate provision for depreciation of assets and for debt servicing,
exceeds the income relatable to the rendering of that service.
(2)
The Empowered Standing Committee shall examine the report referred to in sub-section (1) and place the same before
the Municipality with its recommendations, if any.
84.
Sanction of budget estimate of Municipality.
(1)
The Municipality shall consider the budget estimate and the recommendations, If any, of the Empowered Standing
Committee thereon, and shall, by the fifteenth day of March in each year, adopt the budget estimate for the ensuing year
with such changes as it may consider necessary, and submit the budget estimate so adopted to-
(a)
the State Government, in the case of a Municipal Corporation,
(b)
the Director of Local Bodies," in the case of a Class 'A' Municipal Council, and
(c)
the Regional Deputy Director of Local Bodies, in the case of a Class 'B' Municipal Council, a Class 'C' Municipal Council
or a Nagar Panchayat.
(2)
The budget estimate received by the State Government or the Director of Local Bodies or the Regional Deputy Director
of Local Bodies, as the case may be, under sub-section (1) shall be returned to the Municipality before the thirty-first day
of March of that year with or without modifications of the provisions relating to subventions by the State Government.
85.
Power to alter budget grant.
- A Municipality may, from time to time, during a year-
(a)
increase the amount of any budget grant under any head,
(b)
make an additional budget grant for the purpose of meeting any special or unforeseen requirement arising during the
said year,
(c)
transfer the amount of any budget grant or portion thereof under one head to the amount of budget grant under any
other head, or
(d)
reduce the amount of the budget grant under any head:
Provided that nothing shall be done under clause (a) or clause (b); or clause (c) or clause (d) without the
recommendation of the Empowered Standing Committee.
Chapter XII
Accounts and Audit
86.
Maintenance of accounts.
- The Chief Municipal Officer shall prepare and maintain accounts of receipts and expenditure of the Municipality in such
form, and in such manner, as may be prescribed,
87.
[ Preparation of Municipal Accounting Manual.
[Substituted Bihar Act No. 7 of 2011, dated 27.5.2011.]
- The State Government shall prepare, update and maintain, a Manual to be called the "Bihar Municipal Accounting
Manual" for implementation of accrual based double entry accounting system containing details of all financial &
Page 45/183
----- PAGE 46 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
accounting matters and procedures relating thereto in respect of the Municipalities.]
88.
Financial Statement.
- [(1) The Chief Municipal Officer shall, within four months of the close of a year, cause to prepare financial statements
consisting of a Funds Flow Statement, an Income and Expenditure Account, receipt and expenditure Account and a
Balance Sheet for the preceding year in respect of accounts of the Municipality.]
[Substituted Bihar Act No. 7 of 2011, dated 27.5.2011.]
(2)
The from of the financial statement, and the manner in which the financial statement shall be prepared, shall be such as
may be prescribed.
89.
Balance sheet.
(1)
The Chief Municipal Officer shall, within four months of the close of a year, cause to be prepared a balance sheet of the
assets and the liabilities of the Municipality for the preceding year.
(2)
The form of the balance sheet, and the manner in which the balance sheet shall be prepared, shall be such as may be
prescribed.
90.
Submission of financial statement and balance sheet to auditor.
-  The financial statement prepared under Section 88 and the balance sheet of the assets and the liabilities prepared
under Section 89 shall be placed by the Chief Municipal Officer before the Empowered Standing Committee which, after
examination of the same, shall adopt and remit them to the Auditor as may be appointed in this behalf by the State
Government.
91.
Power of Auditor.
(1)
The municipal accounts as contained in the financial statement, including the accounts of special funds, if any, and the
balance sheet shall be examined and audited by Director Local Fund Audit or his equivalent authority or an Auditor
appointed by the State Government from the panel of professional Chartered Accountants prepared in that behalf by the
State Government.
(2)
[ An Annual Report prepared by the Examiner of Local Accounts, Patna shall be laid on the both Houses of State
Legislature.]
[Substituted by Bihar Act No. 7 of 2011, dated 27.5.2011.]
(3)
The Chief Municipal Officer shall submit such further accounts to the Auditor and [Examiner of Local Accounts]
[Substituted 'CAG' by Bihar Act No. 7 of 2011, dated 27.5.2011.]
, as may be required
(4)
The Auditor so appointed under sub-section (1) may:-
(a)
require, by a notice, in writing, the production before him, or before any officer subordinate to him, of any document
which he considers necessary for the proper conduct of the audit,
(b)
require, by a notice, in writing, any person accountable for, or having the custody or control of, any document, cash or
article, to appear in person before him or before any officer subordinate to him,
(c)
require any person so appearing before him, or before any officer subordinate to him, to make or sign a declaration with
respect to such document, cash or article or to answer any question or prepare and submit any statement, and
(d)
Page 46/183
----- PAGE 47 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
cause physical verification of any stock of articles in course of examination of accounts.
(5)
The Auditor, or the officer subordinate to him, may report any item of accounts contrary to the provisions of this Act to
the Empowered Standing Committee.
(6)
The Empowered Standing Committee shall consider the report of the Auditor alongwith test audit report of the [Examiner
of Local Accounts]
[Substituted 'CAG' by Bihar Act No. 7 of 2011, dated 27.5.2011.]
, as early as possible and shall, if necessary, take prompt action thereon, and shall also, if necessary, surcharge the
amount of any illegal payment on the person making or authorizing it, and charge against any person responsible there
for the amount of any deficiency or loss incurred by the negligence or misconduct of such person or any amount which
ought to have been, but is not, brought into account by such person, and shall, in every such case, certify the amount
due from such person:
Provided that any person aggrieved by an order of payment of certified sums may appeal to the State Government
whose decision on such appeal shall be final.
(7)
Any person who wilfully neglects, or refuses to comply with, the requisition made by an Auditor, or the officer
subordinate to him, shall, on conviction by a court, be punishable with fine which may extend to two thousand rupees in
respect of each item included in the requisition.
92.
Audit Report.
(1)
As soon as practicable after the completion of audit of the accounts of the Municipality, but not later than the thirtieth day
of September each year, the Auditor shall prepare a report of the accounts audited and examined and shall send such
report along with Test Audit Report of [Examiner of Local Accounts]
[Substituted 'C & AG' by Bihar Act No. 7 of 2011, dated 27.5.2011.]
to the Chief Municipal Officer.
(2)
The Auditor shall include in such report a statement showing-
(a)
every payment which appears to the Auditor to be contrary to law,
(b)
the account of any deficiency or loss, which appears to have been caused by gross negligence or misconduct of any
person,
(c)
the account of any sum received which ought to have been, but has not been, brought into account by any person, and
(d)
any other material impropriety or irregularity in the account.
93.
Placing of audited accounts before Municipality.
(1)
The Chief Municipal Officer shall place the audited financial statement, the balance sheet and the report of the Auditor
and his comments along with Test Audit Report of the [Examiner of Local Accounts]
[Substituted 'C & AG' by Bihar Act No. 7 of 2011, dated 27.5.2011.]
thereon before the Empowered Standing Committee which, after the examination thereof, shall place them before the
Municipality with its comments, if any
(2)
The Chief Municipal Officer shall remedy any defect that has been pointed out by the Auditor in his report.
94.
Submission of audited accounts.
(1)
Page 47/183
----- PAGE 48 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
The Chief Municipal Officer shall, after adoption of the financial statement and the balance sheet and the report of the
Auditor along with Test Audit Report of the [Examiner of Local Accounts]
[Substituted 'C & AG' by Bihar Act No. 7 of 2011, dated 27.5.2011.]
by the Municipality, forward the same to the State Government together with a report of the action take thereon by the
Municipality and shall also send copies thereof to the Auditor and [Examiner of Local Accounts]
[Substituted 'C & AG' by Bihar Act No. 7 of 2011, dated 27.5.2011.]
.
(2)
If there is any difference of opinion between the Auditor and the Municipality or if the Municipality does not remedy the
defects or the irregularities mentioned in the report of the Auditor within a reasonable period, the Auditor shall refer the
matter to the State Government whose decision thereon shall be final and binding.
95.
Power of State Government to enforce order upon audit report.
- If any order made by the State Government under this chapter is not complied with, it shall be lawful for the State
Government to take such steps as it thinks fit to secure the compliance of the order and to direct that all expenses
therefor shall be defrayed from the Municipal Fund.
96.
Special Audit.
- In addition to the audit of annual accounts, the State Government or the Municipality may, if it thinks fit, appoint an
Auditor to conduct special audit pertaining to a specified item or series of items requiring thorough examination, and the
procedure relating to audit shall apply mutatis mutandis to such special audit.
97.
Internal Audit.
- The State Government or the Municipality may provide for internal audit of the day to day accounts of the Municipality
in the manner prescribed.
98.
Municipal Accounts Committee.
(1)
The Municipality shall, at its first meeting in each year or as soon as may be at any meeting subsequent thereto,
constitute a Municipal Accounts Committee.
(2)
The Municipal Accounts Committee shall consist of-
(a)
such number of members, not being less than three and not more than fifteen as the State Government may determine,
by notification for the Municipality to be elected by the Councillors, not being the members of the Empowered Standing
Committee, from amongst themselves, and
(b)
such number of persons, not being Councillors, or officers or other employees of the Municipality and not exceeding two
in number, having knowledge and experience in financial matters, as may be nominated by the Municipality.
(3)
The members of the Municipal Accounts Committee shall elect from amongst themselves one member to be its
Chairperson.
(4)
Subject to the other provisions of this Act, the members of the Municipal Accounts Committee shall hold office until a
new Municipal Accounts Committee is constituted.
(5)
The Vacancy arising out of the submission of resignation by the Chairperson or any other member of a casual vacancy
of the Municipal Accounts Committee shall be filled according to the aforesaid sub-section (2) and (3)
(6)
Subject to the provisions of this Act and the Rules and the regulations made thereunder, it shall be the duty of the
Municipal Accounts Committee-
Page 48/183
----- PAGE 49 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
(a)
to examine the accounts of the Municipality showing the appropriation of sums granted by the Municipality for its
expenditure and the annual financial accounts of the Municipality,
(b)
to examine and scrutinize the report on the accounts of the Municipality by the Auditor appointed under Section 90 and
to satisfy itself that the money shown in the accounts as having been disbursed was available for, and applicable to, the
services or purposes to which they were applied or charged and that the expenditure was incurred in accordance with
the authority governing such expenditure,
(c)
to submit report to the Municipality every year and from time to time on such examination and scrutiny,
(cc)
[ To review and approve the Action Taken Report (ATR) following each report by the Auditor under Section 90 and the
Internal Audit under section-97.]
[Inserted by Bihar Act No. 7 of 2011, dated 27.5.2011.]
(d)
to consider the report of the Auditor appointed under Section 94 in cases where the State Government or the
Municipality requires him to conduct a special audit of any receipt or expenditure of the Municipality or to examine the
accounts of stores and stocks of the Municipality or to check the inventory of the properties of the Municipality including
its land holdings and buildings, and
(e)
to discharge such other functions as may be prescribed.
(7)
The Municipal Accounts Committee may call for any book or document if, in its opinion, such book or document is
necessary for its work and may send for such officers of the Municipality as it may consider necessary for explaining any
matter in connection with its work.
(8)
The manner of transaction of business of the Municipal Accounts Committee shall be such as may be determined by
Regulations:
Provided that the persons nominated under clause (b) of sub-section (2) shall not have the right to vote at the meeting of
the Municipal Accounts Committee.
Chapter XIII
Municipal Property
99.
Power to acquire and hold property.
- The Municipality shall, for the purposes of this Act, have power to acquire and hold by gift, purchase or otherwise,
movable property immovable properties or any interest therein, whether within or outside the limits of the municipal area.
100.
Vesting of property.
- Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, the movable and the immovable
properties of the following categories within the limits of a municipal area, not belonging to any Government department
or statutory body (excluding Zila Parishad or corporation), shall vest in the Municipality, unless the State Government
directs otherwise by notification, namely:-
(a)
all public lands not belonging to any Government department or statutory body or corporation,
(b)
all public tanks, streams, reservoirs, and wells,
(c)
all public markets and slaughterhouses,
(d)
all public sewers and drains, channels, tunnels, culverts and watercourses in, alongside, or under, any street,
(e)
Page 49/183
----- PAGE 50 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
all public street and pavements, and stones and other materials thereon, and also trees on such public streets or
pavements not belonging to any private individual,
(f)
all public parks and gardens, including squares and public open spaces,
(g)
all public ghats on rivers or streams or tanks,
(h)
all public lamps, lamp-posts and apparatus connected therewith, or appertaining thereto,
(i)
all public places for disposal of the dead, excluding those governed by any specific law in this behalf,
(j)
all solid wastes collected on a public street or public place, including dead animals and birds, and
(k)
all stray animals not belonging to any private person.
101.
Acquisition of property by Municipality by agreement, exchange, lease, grant etc.
(1)
The Municipality may, on such terms and conditions as may be approved by it, acquire by agreement-
(a)
any immovable property, and
(b)
any easement affecting immovable property.
(2)
The Municipality may also acquire any property by exchange on such terms and conditions as may be approved by it.
(3)
The Municipality may also hire or take on lease immovable property on such terms and conditions as may be approved
by it from time to time.
(4)
The Municipality may receive any grant or dedication by donor, whether in the form of any income or any movable or
immovable property, by which the Municipality may be benefited in the discharge of any of its functions.
(5)
It shall be lawful for the Municipality to be the beneficiary of any trust created under the Charitable and Religious Trusts
Act, 1920, or the Indian Trusts Act, 1882.
102.
Compulsory acquisition of land.
(1)
When any land, whether within or outside the limits of the municipal area, or any easement effecting any immovable
property vested in the Municipality, is required for any public purpose under this Act, the State Government may, at the
request of the.Municipality, proceed to acquire such land or easement under the Land acquisition Act, 1894.
(2)
The Municipality shall be bound to pay to the State Government the cost including all charges in connection with the
acquisition of the land under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894.
(3)
The Municipality may resort to other methods of land assembly, including the use of transferable development rights.
103.
Special provisions for acquisition of lands adjoining streets.
-  Whenever the Municipality makes a request to the State Government for acquisition of land for the purpose of
widening or improving an existing street, it shall be lawful for the Municipality to apply to the State Government for the
acquisition of such additional land immediately adjoining the land to be occupied by such new street or existing street as
is required for the sites of buildings to be erected on either side of the street, and such additional land shall be deemed
to be required for the purposes of this Act.
Page 50/183
----- PAGE 51 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
104.
Disposal of property.
- Any property belonging to the Municipality may be disposed of with the prior approval of the State Government in the
manner hereinafter provided, namely:-
(a)
the Empowered Standing Committee may sell, or grant lease of, or otherwise dispose of, by public auction, any movable
property, and may grant lease of, or let out on hire, any immovable property, belonging to the Municipality,
(b)
the Municipality may, with the prior approval of the State Government, for valuable consideration, sell or otherwise
transfer, any immovable property belonging to the Municipality which is not required for carrying out the purposes of this
Act, and
(c)
the Municipality shall not transfer any immovable property vested in it by virtue of this Act, but shall cause the same to
be maintained, controlled and regulated in accordance with the provisions of this Act and the Rules and the Regulations
made thereunder:
Provided that the State Government may authorize, in the public interest, the disposal of such immovable property by
the Municipality, if the Municipality so requires, for reasons to be recorded in writing.
Explanation. - "Valuable consideration" shall, in relation to any immovable property, mean anything of considerable
value in terms of money or property given in lieu of transfer, by way of sale or otherwise, of such immovable property.
105.
Inventory of properties of Municipality.
(1)
The Empowered Standing Committee shall maintain a register and a map of all the immovable properties of which the
Municipality is the owner or which is vested in it, or which the Municipality holds in trust for the Government, and a
register of all movable properties belonging to the Municipality.
(2)
The Empowered Standing Committee shall, in the case of the inventory of an immovable property, prepare an annual
statement indicating the changes, if any, in the said inventory and shall place the same before the Municipality along
with the budget estimate.
Chapter XIV
Borrowings
106.
Comprehensive Debt Limitation Policy.
- The State Government shall frame a Comprehensive Debt Limitation Policy applicable in the case of loans, including
short-term loans, to be raised by the Municipalities, laying down, inter-alia, the general principles governing the raising of
loans by the Municipalities, the limit of the loans which any Municipality may raise having regard to its financial capacity,
the rate of interest to be paid for such loans, and the terms and conditions, including the period of repayment thereof.
107.
Power of Municipality to raise loan.
(1)
The Municipality may, from time to time, raise, by a resolution in this behalf passed at a meeting of the Municipality, a
loan within the limits set by the Comprehensive Debt Limitation Policy framed under Section 106, by the issue of
debentures or otherwise, on the security of the property tax or of all or any of the other taxes, surcharges, cesses and
fees and dues under this Act or of both the property tax and all or any of the other taxes, surcharges, cesses and fees
and dues under this Act, or on the guarantee by the State Government, of any sum of money which may be required for
the purpose of-
(a)
construction of works under this Act, or
(b)
acquisition of lands and buildings for the purposes of this Act, or
(c)
Page 51/183
----- PAGE 52 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
paying off any debt due to the State Government, or
(d)
repayment of a loan raised under this Act, or
(e)
acquisition of a public utility concern which renders such services as the Municipality is authorized to render under this
Act, or
(f)
purchase of vehicles, locomotive engines, boilers and machinery necessary for carrying out the purposes of this Act, or
(g)
any other purpose for which the Municipality is, by or under this Act or any other law for the time being in force,
authorized to borrow:
Provided that any loan proposed to be raised which goes beyond the limits set by the Comprehensive Debt Limitation
Policy as aforesaid shall require the previous sanction of the State Government with regard to its purpose, the quantum,
the rate of interest and the period for repayment, and the other terms and conditions, if any:
Provided further that in addition to the loans as aforesaid, the Municipality may also take loan from the State
Government or any statutory body or Public Sector Corporation.
(2)
When any loan has been raised under sub-section (1),-
(a)
no portion thereof shall, without the previous sanction of the State Government, be applied to any purpose other than
that for which it has been raised, and
(b)
no portion of any loan raised for any of the purposes referred to in that sub-section shall be applied to the payment of
salaries or allowances to any officer or other employee of the Municipality, other than those who are exclusively
employed for the purpose for which the loan has been raised.
Explanation. - The expression "dues under this Act" in sub-section (1) shall, for the purposes of clause (e) of that
sub-section, be deemed to include the income derivable from the public utility concern referred to in that clause.
108.
Power of Municipality to open credit account with bank.
-  Notwithstanding anything contained in Section 107, the Municipality may, where the raising of a loan is sanctioned by
the State Government under that Section, instead of raising such loan or any part thereof, take credit, on such terms as
may be approved by the State Government, from any scheduled bank, to be kept in a cash account bearing the name of
the Municipality to the extent of such loan or any part thereof and, with the sanction of the State Government, may grant
mortgage of all or any of the properties vested in the Municipality byway of securing the repayment of the amount of
such credit or of the sums advanced from time to time on such cash account with interest.
109.
Power of Municipality to raise short term loan.
- Notwithstanding anything contained in this chapter, the Municipality may, within the limits set by the Comprehensive
Debt Limitation Policy framed under Section 106, from time to time, take a short-term loan repayable within such period,
not exceeding twelve months, from any other scheduled bank, for such purpose, not being a purpose referred to in
sub-section (1) of Section 107, on such terms, and on furnishing such security for the repayment of such loan, as may
be approved by the State Government.
110.
Establishment of Sinking Fund.
- The Municipality shall establish a Sinking Fund in respect of each loan raised under Section 107 for the repayment of
money borrowed, or debentures issued, and shall, every year, pay into such Sinking Fund such sum as shall be
sufficient for the repayment, within the period fixed for the loan, of the money borrowed or the debentures issued.
111.
Application of Sinking Fund.
- A Sinking Fund or any part thereof shall be applied to the discharge of the loan or a part of the loan for which such
Fund was created and, until such loan or part thereof is wholly discharged, such Fund shall not be applied to any other
Page 52/183
----- PAGE 53 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
purpose.
112.
Power to discontinue payment towards Sinking Fund.
- If, at any time, the sum standing at the credit of a Sinking Fund established under Section 110 for the repayment of any
loan is of such amount that if allowed to accumulate at the rate of interest sanctioned under the first proviso to
sub-section (1) of Section 109, it will be sufficient to pay off the loan within the period approved by the State Government
under the said proviso, further payments towards such fund may be discontinued.
113.
Investment of amount at the credit of Sinking Fund.
(1)
All money paid into a Sinking Fund shall, as soon as possible, be invested by the Empowered Standing Committee in-
(a)
Government securities, or
(b)
Securities guaranteed by the Central Government or any State Government, or
(c)
Debentures issued by the Municipality, or
(d)
Such other public securities as may be approved by the State Government, and shall be held by the Municipality for the
purpose of repaying, from time to time, the loans raised by it by the issue of debentures or otherwise.
(2)
All dividends and other sums received in respect of any investment under sub-section (1) shall, as soon as possible after
their receipt, be paid into the Sinking Fund and shall be invested in the manner laid down in that sub-section.
(3)
Money standing at the credit of two or more Sinking Funds may, at the discretion of the Empowered Standing
Committee, be invested together as a common fund, and it shall not be necessary for the Empowered Standing
Committee to allocate the securities held in such investments to the several Sinking Funds.
(4)
Subject to the provisions of sub-section (1), any investment made under this Section may, from time to time, be varied or
transposed.
114.
Power of Municipalities to reserve a portion of debentures, issued for raising loan, for investment.
(1)
For the purpose of investment of any portion of the Municipal Fund, including sinking fund in the debentures issued by
the Municipality for raising a loan, the Municipality may, within the limits set by the Comprehensive Debt Limitation
Policy framed under Section 106, reserve and set apart any portion of such debentures for issue at par thereto in the
name of the Municipality, provided that the intention so to reserve and set apart such debentures shall have been
notified as a condition of raising the loan.
(2)
The issue of any debentures by the Municipality under sub-section (1) shall not operate to extinguish or cancel such
debentures, but every such debenture shall be valid in all respects as if it were issued to, and in the name of, any other
person.
(3)
The purchase by, or the transfer, assignment or endorsement to, the Municipality of any debenture issued by it shall not
operate to extinguish or cancel such debenture and every such debenture shall be valid and negotiable in the same
manner and to the same extent as if it were held by, or transferred, assigned or endorsed to, any other person.
115.
Manner of repayment of loans.
- Every loan raised by the Municipality under Section 107 shall be repaid within the time approved under that Section
and such repayment shall be made either from a Sinking Fund established under Section 110 in respect of such loan or
partly from such Sinking Fund and, to the extent to which such Sinking Fund falls short of the sum required for the
Page 53/183
----- PAGE 54 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
repayment of such loan, partly from the loan raised for the purpose under Section 107, as may be approved by the State
Government.
116.
Form and effect of debenture.
- All debentures issued under this chapter shall be in such form, and shall be transferable in such manner, as the
Municipality may, by regulations, determine, and the right to sue in respect of the money secured by any of such
debentures shall vest in the holders thereof for the time being without any preference by reason of some such
debentures being prior in date to others.
117.
Annual statement.
(1)
The Chief Municipal Officer shall, at the end of every year, prepare, and submit to the Municipality, an annual statement
showing-
(a)
the amount which has been paid into the Sinking Fund or Sinking Funds during the year under Section 110,
(b)
the date of the last investment made during the year,
(c)
the aggregate amount of the securities in the hand of the Municipality at the end of the year, and
(d)
the aggregate amount which has been applied for the purpose of repayment of the loan under Section 113.
(2)
A copy of every such annual statement shall be submitted to the State Government by the Chief Municipal Officer.
118.
Annual examination of Sinking Funds.
(1)
All Sinking Funds established under this Act shall be subject to annual examination by the auditor appointed under
Section 90, who shall ascertain whether the cash and the value of securities belonging to such Sinking Funds are equal
to the amount which should be at the credit of such Sinking Funds, had the investment under Section 113 been regularly
made and had the interest accruing from such investments been regularly obtained.
(2)
the amount which should be at the credit of a Sinking Fund shall be calculated on the basis of the sums paid into such
Sinking Fund under Section 107.
(3)
The value of securities belonging to a Sinking Fund shall be the current value of such securities, unless such securities
become due for redemption at par with, or above, their face value before maturity in which case their current value shall
be taken as their redemption value, except in the case of the debentures issued by the Municipality which shall always
be valued at par with their face value, provided the Municipality shall make good immediately any loss owing to the sale
of such debentures for repayment of the loan raised under sub-section (1) of Section 109.
(4)
The Municipality shall forthwith pay into a Sinking Fund such amount as the Auditor appointed under Section 90 may
certify to be deficit in respect of such Sinking Fund, unless the State Government specially sanctions a gradual
readjustment of such deficit.
(5)
If the cash and the value of the securities at the credit of a Sinking Fund are in excess of the amount which should be at
the credit of such sinking Fund, the Auditor appointed under Section 90 shall certify the amount of such excess sum,
and the Municipality shall, thereupon, transfer the excess sum to the Municipal Fund in the General Account.
(6)
If any dispute arises as to the accuracy of any deficit or excess referred to in the certificate under sub-section (4) or
sub-section (5), the Municipality may, after payment of such deficit or after transfer of such excess, as the case may be,
refer the matter to the State Government whose decision thereon shall be final.
Page 54/183
----- PAGE 55 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
119.
Power of Municipality to borrow money from State Government and attachment of Municipal Fund for recovery of such
money.
(1)
The Municipality may borrow money from the State Government for carrying out the purposes of this Act on such terms
and conditions as the State Government may determine.
(2)
If any money borrowed by the Municipality from the State Government before the commencement of this Act.or under
sub Section (1) is not repaid, or any interest due in respect thereof is not paid, according to the terms and conditions of
such borrowing, the State Government may attach the Municipal Fund or any portion thereof.
(3)
After such attachment, an officer as may be appointed in this behalf by the State Government shall deal with the
Municipal Fund, or any portion thereof, so attached, in such manner as he thinks fit and may do all acts in respect
thereof which any municipal authority or an officer or other employee of the Municipality might have done under this Act,
if such attachment had not taken place, and may apply such Municipal Fund or the portion thereof, as the case may be,
for payment of the arrear of the principal amount and the interest due in respect of such borrowing and of all expenses
incurred on account of the attachment and subsequent proceedings:
Provided that no such attachment shall defeat or prejudice any debt for the recovery of which the Municipal Fund was
previously charged under any law for the time being in force, and all such prior debt shall be paid out of the Municipal
Fund before any part thereof is applied for repayment of the money borrowed from the State Government.
120.
Issue of Municipal Bonds for development of urban infrastructure.
- Subject to such guidelines and procedure as the Central Government may lay down from time to time and with the
previous approval of the./State Government the Municipality may issue tax-free Municipal Bonds for financing of projects
for development of urban infrastructure.
121.
Credit rating of Municipal Bonds.
(1)
A Municipality shall, if and when required for the purpose of raising funds through a Municipal Bond, arrange to have a
credit rating of the Municipal Bonds by a Credit Rating Agency, duly approved by the Central Government or the State
Government, as the case may be, in this regard.
(2)
The Municipality shall provide to the Credit Rating Agency such information as it may require.
122.
Pledging of Municipal assets as security for Municipal Bonds.
- The Municipality may pledge its movable and immovable assets, lands, buildings and revenues from tax in special
escrow accounts as security for the Municipal Bonds issued for development of urban infrastructure.
123.
Debt Service Reserve Fund.
- The Municipality may set up a Debt Service Reserve Fund by providing special grants from its surplus revenue or
through capitalisation proceeds from Municipal Bonds to service bond-holders in case of default in payment of principal
and interest for a period not exceeding two years.
124.
Limit to encumbrances through future debt.
- If and when required, the Municipality may, for the purpose of issuing Municipal Bonds, limit its future debt
encumbrances by adoption of suitable debt service coverage ratio as a minimum ratio in relation to its future cash flow
projections.
125.
Use of proceeds from Municipal Bonds.
- The fund to be raised from the Municipal Bonds shall be used for capital investment for development of urban
infrastructure in the spheres of water-supply, sewerage, drainage, solid waste management, markets, roads, bridges,
Page 55/183
----- PAGE 56 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
urban transport, and for reforming and improving the efficiency of existing systems of municipal administration and for
repayment of loans for the aforesaid purposes raised through earlier issues of municipal bonds or otherwise.
Part IV ? Municipal Revenue
Chapter XV
Sources of Internal Revenues
126.
Internal revenues of Municipality.
- The internal revenues of the Municipality shall consist of its receipts from the following sources:-
(a)
taxes levied by the Municipality,
(b)
user charges levied for provision of civic services, and
(c)
fees and fines levied for performance of regulatory and other statutory functions.
127.
Power to levy taxes.
(1)
Subject to the provisions of Section 10, the Municipality shall have, for the purposes of this Act, the power to levy the
following taxes:-
(a)
property tax on lands and buildings [including vacant Land.]
[Inserted by Bihar Act No. 7 of 2011, dated 27.5.2011.]
(b)
surcharge on transfer of lands and buildings,
(c)
tax on deficit in parking spaces in any non-residential building,
(d)
water tax,
(e)
fire tax,
(f)
tax on advertisements, other than advertisements published in newspapers,
(g)
surcharge on entertainment tax
(h)
surcharge on electricity consumption within the municipal area,
(i)
tax on congregations,
(j)
tax on pilgrims and tourists, and
(k)
toll-
(i)
on roads, bridges, ferries and navigable channel and
(ii)
on heavy trucks which shall be heavy goods vehicles, and buses, which shall be heavy passenger motor vehicles, within
the meaning of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, plying on a public street.
(l)
[ Communication towers and related structures/ Disc antennas.]
[Substituted by Bihar Act No. 7 of 2011, dated 27.5.2011.]
(2)
Page 56/183
----- PAGE 57 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
Subject to the prior approval of the State Government, the Municipality may, for raising revenue for discharging its
duties, and performing its functions, under this Act, levy any other tax which the State Legislature has the power to levy
under the Constitution of India.
(3)
The levy, assessment and collection of taxes under this Act shall be in accordance with the provisions of this Act and the
Rules and the Regulations made thereunder:
Provided that [every person liable to pay Property Tax on lands and buildings shall within 30 days of acquiring land or
building or both, intimate the Municipality of such acquisition of property for assessment of Property Tax. Failure to give
such information shall make him liable to assessment from the date of acquisition of property together with penalty in the
range of 25 percent to 100 percent of the arrears becoming due on account of suppression of information as may be
prescribed under Rules by the State Government]
[Inserted by Bihar Act No. 7 of 2011, dated 27.5.2011.]
any person may make self-assessment and make payment of any levy or tax under this Act and Rules and Regulations
made thereunder:
Provided further that if [any willful suppression of material information essential for assessment of Property Tax]
[Substituted 'any discrepancy or under-assessment' by Bihar Act No. 7 of 2011, dated 27.5.2011.]
is found in such self-assessment, such person shall be liable for payment of differential amount and a fine of not less
than fifty percent and upto 100% of such differential amount.
(4)
(i)
The holding in the Municipal area shall be classified by the Municipality on the following criteria:-
(a)
Situation of the holding-
(i)
Holdings on the Principal Main Road,
(ii)
Holdings on the Main Road,
(iii)
Holdings other than sub-clauses (i) and (ii)
(b)
Use of the Holding-
(i)
Purely residential,
(ii)
Purely commercial or industrial (whether self owned or otherwise),
(iii)
Partly residential and partly commercial/industrial,
(iv)
All Holdings other than sub-clauses (i), (ii) and (iii)
(c)
Type of Construction-
(i)
Pucca building with R.C.C. Roof,
(ii)
Pucca building with asbestos/corrugated [/stone or any other permanent material]
[Inserted by Bihar Act No. 7 of 2011, dated 27.5.2011.]
sheet roof,
(iii)
All other buildings not covered in sub-clauses (i) and (ii).
(d)
[ Type of Occupancy:-
Page 57/183
----- PAGE 58 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
[Inserted by Bihar Act No. 7 of 2011, dated 27.5.2011.]
(i)
Self-occupied;
(ii)
Tenant Occupied;
(e)
Type of non-residential use of Holdings
(i)
Hotels, restaurants, clubs, cinema houses, Guest Houses, Marriage Halls and all places of entertainment;
(ii)
Shops, show rooms;
(iii)
Commercial offices, banks, hospitals and nursing homes, dispensaries, laboratories,
(iv)
Government Offices and institutions
(v)
Industries, workshops;
(vi)
Schools, colleges and other educational institutions, research institutions;
(vii)
Educational and social institutions run by charitable trust on no-profit no loss basis for the benefit of poor, physically
challenged, social security of women and children;
(viii)
Religious places, and
(ix)
Any other holdings not covered under (i) to (viii).
(ii)
For the purpose of determining whether a holding is situated on Principal Main Road, on the Main Road or on any other
Road, road facing the main entrance of each holding shall be the deciding factor. In case where the properties are
located on more than one road, Principal Main Road shall prevail over the Main Road and the Main Road shall prevail
over other Road.]
(5)
Subject to the approval of the State Government, the Municipality may from time to time, publish the list of principal main
roads as well as main roads and if necessary modify the lists for the purposes of this Act.
(6)
For the purpose of calculation of Annual Rental value of a holdings measurement of carpet area shall be calculated as
under:-
(i)
Rooms-Full measurement of Internal Dimension,
(ii)
Covered Verandah-Full measurement of Internal Dimension,
(iii)
Balcony/Corridor, Kitchen and Store-50 per cent measurement of Internal dimension,
(iv)
Garage-One-fourth measurement of internal dimension,
(v)
Area covered by bath room, latrines, portico and Staircase shall not form part of the Carpet area.
[Provided that in cases where the property is found locked, or is not accessible for the measurement of carpet areas for
any reason whatsoever, the Municipality shall take into consideration 75 percent of the plinth area of the property as
carpet area for the purposes of assessment of Property Tax until the property becomes accessible in subsequent year.]
[Inserted by Bihar Act No. 7 of 2011, dated 27.5.2011.]
Page 58/183
----- PAGE 59 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
(7)
(i)
The rate of rental value per sq. ft. shall be fixed by the Municipality with the prior approval of the State Government
having regard to the situation, use [type of construction, occupancy of the holdings and type of non-residential use of
holdings.]
[Substituted 'and the type of construction of the holdings' by Bihar Act No. 7 of 2011, dated 27.5.2011.]
(ii)
The Annual Rental Value shall be commuted as a multiple of the Carpet area and the rental value fixed under sub-Rule
(1).
(iii)
The rental value per sq. ft. of carpet area for different classes of holdings shall be published from time to time by the
Municipality with the prior approval of the State Government.
(8)
Tax shall be assessed on the basis of Annual Rental value on the following rates:
(i)
Holding Tax-at the rate of 2.5% per cent of Annual Rental Value,
(ii)
Water Tax-at the rate of 2 per cent of Annual Rental Value,
(iii)
Latrine Tax- at the rate of 2 per cent of Annual Rental Value.
(iv)
Tax on any other item included in 12th Schedule of the Constitution of India on such rate as prescribed.
(v)
[ Property Tax on vacant land shall be levied annually within minimum and maximum of Re. one and Rs. 5 respectively
per square meter of vacant land depending on the situation of land falling in the criteria given in Section-127(4)(1)(a).
The rates to be levied shall be determined from time to time under the under Rules to be framed by the State
Government.]
[Inserted by Bihar Act No. 7 of 2011, dated 27.5.2011.]
(9)
The Municipality may revise the rate of Tax on Annual Rental Value with the prior approval of the State Government.
(10)
If any difficulty arises in giving effect to this Section, the Government shall in consistent with the provisions of this
Section have power to issue any direction in the matter.
128.
Power to levy user charges.
- The Municipality shall [besides levy of Property Tax under Section- 127]
[Inserted by Bihar Act No. 7 of 2011, dated 27.5.2011.]
levy user charges for-
(i)
provision of water-supply, drainage and sewerage,
(ii)
solid waste management,
(iii)
parking of different types of vehicles in different areas and for different periods,
(iv)
stacking of materials or rubbish on public streets for construction, alteration, repair or demolition work of any type, and
(v)
other specific services rendered in pursuance of the provisions of this Act, at such rates as may be determined from time
to time by Regulations:
Provided that a Municipality may, having regard to the conditions obtaining in the municipal area, decide not to levy, or
postpone the levying of, any of the user charges as aforesaid:
Page 59/183
----- PAGE 60 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
Provided further that the State Government may direct the Municipality to levy any of the user charges as aforesaid, not
levied, or postponed, by the Municipality.
129.
Power to levy fees and fines.
- The Municipality shall have the power to levy fees and fines in exercise of the regulatory powers vested in it by or
under this Act or the Rules or the regulations made thereunder for-
(a)
sanction of building plans and issue of completion certificates,
(b)
issue of municipal licenses for various non-residential uses of lands and buildings,
(c)
licensing of-
(i)
various categories of professionals such as plumbers and surveyors,
(ii)
various activities such as sinking of tube-wells, sale of meat, fish or poultry, or hawking of articles,
(iii)
sites used for advertisements or premises used for private markets, slaughterhouses, hospitals, nursing homes, clinics,
factories, warehouses, godowns, goods transport depots, eating-houses, lodging-houses, hotels, theatres,
cinema-houses and places of public amusement and for other non residential uses,
(iv)
animals,
(v)
carts or carriages, and
(vi)
such other activities as require a licence or permission under the provisions of this Act, and
(d)
issue of birth and death certificates.
130.
[ Levy of surcharge on tax or fee.
[Substituted by Bihar Act No. 7 of 2011, dated 27.5.2011.]
- Subject to the approval of the State Government, the Municipality may levy a surcharge at the rate of 2.5 percent on a
tax a user charge or fee or fines or on electricity consumption within the municipal area.]
131.
Power to levy development charge.
- The Municipality may levy such development charge as may be determined by regulation, from time to time, on any
residential building with a height of more than fourteen metres, or any non-residential building, having regard to its
location along a particular category of street, its use characteristics, and sanctioned built up area.
132.
Realisation of tax fees cess etc. under any other law.
- The Municipality may, if so authorized by any other law for the time being in force, realise any tax, development
charge, cess, or fee, imposed under that law, or any dues payable under that law, in accordance with the provisions
thereof.
133.
Power to impose consolidated tax.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing Sections, the Chief Municipal Officer, in lieu of imposing separately
any two or more of the taxes described in Section 127 sub-section (1) or subject to anyone or more of the said taxes and
a drainage tax, or surcharge, may, with the previous approval of the Empowered Standing Committee, impose a
consolidated tax, at such rate as it deems fit, assessed on the annual value of holdings situated within the Municipality.
(2)
Page 60/183
----- PAGE 61 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
Such consolidated tax shall be payable in such proportion by the owners and occupiers of holdings as the Chief
Municipal Officer, may determine.
134.
Holding occupied by more than one person.
- When any holding is occupied by or let to two or more persons, being severally responsible for the maintenance or
payment of rent for the portions occupied, the Municipality may for the purposes of assessing such holding, either treat
the whole there of as one holding, or, with the written consent of owner or owners of such holding, treat each of the said
several portions therein or any two or more of several portion together, or each floor or flat as a separate holding.
135.
Taxes by whom payable.
- Any tax which is assessed on the value of the holding shall subject to the provisions of Sections 127 be payable by the
owners and in his absentia the occupier of holdings within the Municipality.
(2)
Any tax which is assessed on without the annual value of holding shall be payable by the persons in actual occupation
of the holding within the Municipality.
136.
Duty on certain transfers of property.
(1)
In every Municipality a duty shall be imposed on transfers of immovable property in accordance with the provision
contained in sub-section (2).
(2)
The duty imposed by the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 (II of 1899), as modified from time to time in its application to the State
of Bihar, on instruments of sale, gift and usufructuary mortgage, respectively or immovable property situated within the
limits of a municipality and executed on or after the date on which the provision of this Act came into force within that
municipality be increased by two per centum on the value of the property so situated, or in the case of an usufructuary
mortgage, on the amount secured by the instrument, as set forth in the instrument.
(3)
On the introduction of the transfer duty-
(i)
Section 27 of the said Indian Stamp Act, 1899 (II of 1899) as from time to time so modified, shall be read as if it
specifically required the particulars referred to therein to be set forth separately in respect of property situated within the
limits of municipality and outside such limits respectively; and
(ii)
Section 64 of the Act, as from time to time so modified, shall be read as if it referred to the Municipality as well as the
Government.
(4)
All collections resulting from the said increase shall, after the deduction of incidental expenses, if any, be credited to the
municipal fund at such time as may be prescribed.
Chapter XVI
Assessment
137.
Assessment in case of holdings sub-divided into separate shares.
(1)
If the ownership of any holding or any part thereof is sub-divided into separate shares, the Chief Municipal Officer may,
on the application of any of the co-owners divide the assessment of such holding or portion thereof in the following
manner namely:-
(i)
If the ownership be subdivided into two or more shares without separate allotment, or if as the result of such subdivision
there is a separate allotment, of such holding or portion into two or more separate portions, which are not entirely
independent and capable of separate enjoyment, the Chief Municipal Officer may, if he thinks fit, apportion the
assessment among the share-holders according to the value of their respective shares without assigning any separate
Page 61/183
----- PAGE 62 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
number;
(ii)
If, as the result of such subdivision, there are separate allotments of such holding or portion and if such allotments are
made entirely independent and capable of separate enjoyment but not in conformity with the provision of this Act or of
any Rules or bye-laws made thereunder, relating to buildings, the Chief Municipal Officer may, if he thinks fit, assess
such portions separately after assigning to them separate number under this Chapter;
(iii)
If, such separated portions of such holding or portion, are made, entirely independent and capable of separate
enjoyment in conformity with the provisions of this Act. or of any rules or bye-laws made thereunder, relating to building,
the Chief Municipal Officer shall assess such portion separately by assigning a separate number thereto.
(2)
The provision of Section 141,142 and 143 applicable to objections shall, so far as may be, apply to any objection made
in pursuance of a notice issued under sub-section (1)
(3)
Every alteration made under sub-section (1) shall be signed by the Chief Municipal Officer and, subject to the result of
an application under Section 141, shall take effect from the quarter in which the order has been passed, but the Chief
Municipal Officer, by such alteration shall not be deemed to have made a new or revised assessment list.
138.
Assessment in case of holdings having been amalgamated.
(1)
If any holding bearing two or more holding numbers or portions thereof, be amalgamated into one or more new
premises, the Chief Municipal Officer shall assess them on amalgamation, after assigning to them one or more
numbers, as the case may be, for the purposes of this Chapter:
Provided that no assessment on amalgamation of premises shall be made by the Chief Municipal Officer except on
application being made by the owner or owners thereof.
(2)
Every alteration made under sub-section (1) shall be signed by the Chief Municipal Officer and, subject to the result of
an application made under Section 141, shall take effect from the quarter in which the order has been passed, but the
Chief Municipal Officer, by such alteration, shall not be seemed to have made a new or revised assessment of it.
138A.
[ State Property Tax Board.
[Inserted by Bihar Act No. 7 of 2011, dated 27.5.2011.]
- State Government shall put in place a state level Property Tax Board, which may assist all municipalities in the state to
put in place an independent and transparent procedure for assessing property tax.
138B.
Chairman and Members of the State Property Tax Board.
- Qualification and disqualification of the Chairman and the members of the Property Tax Board, their appointment and
functions shall be in such manners as may be prescribed.]
139.
Power of Empowered Standing Committee in case of excessive hardship.
- Whenever, from the circumstances of the case, the levy of a tax on any holding would be productive of excessive
hardship to the person liable to pay the same, the Standing Committee, on the recommendation of the Chief Municipal
Officer, may reduce the amount payable on account of such holding, or may remit the same:
Provided that such reduction or remission shall not, unless renewed by Standing Committee on similar recommendation
of the Chief Municipal Officer, have effect for more than one year.
140.
Remission or adjustment on account of vacant holdings.
(1)
When any holding has been unoccupied and unproductive of rent for thirty or more consecutive days during any year
and written notice of the fact has been given to the Chief Municipal Officer, he shall remit and, if the tax has been paid,
shall adjust against future demands one-half of so much of tax of that year as may be proportionate to the number of
Page 62/183
----- PAGE 63 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
days the said holding has remained so unoccupied from the date of delivery of such notice.
(2)
The burden of proving the facts entitling any person to claim relief under this Section shall be upon him.
(3)
For the purposes of this Section, neither the presence of a caretaker, nor the mere retention in an otherwise unoccupied
dwelling house of the furniture habitually used in it, shall constitute occupation of the house.
(4)
For the purposes of this Section, house shall be deemed to be productive of rent if let to a tenant who has a continuing
right of occupation thereof, whether it is actually occupied by such tenant or not.
141.
Application for Review.
(1)
Any person who is dissatisfied with the amount assessed upon him or the valuation or assessment of any holding, or
who disputes his occupation of any holding, or his liability to be assessed, may apply to the Chief Municipal Officer or an
officer empowered in this behalf by the State Government to review the amount of assessment or valuation or to exempt
him from the assessment or tax.
(2)
All such applications containing objections shall be made in writing within thirty days after the receipt of the notice
served upon him regarding the assessment or valuation for assessment of any holding:
Provided that the Chief Municipal Officer may if he thinks fit extend the said period of thirty days to a period not
exceeding sixty days.
142.
Investigation of objections by Chief Municipal Officer.
(1)
All such objections shall be entered in a register to be maintained for the purpose and, on receipt of any objection, the
Chief Municipal Officer or any officer empowered in this behalf by the State Government shall give a notice in witting to
the objector of a time and place at which his objection will be investigated.
(2)
At the time and place so fixed, the Chief Municipal Officer or any officer empowered in this behalf by the State
Government shall hear the objection, in the presence of the objector or his authorised agent if he appears, or may for
reasonable cause, adjourn the investigation.
(3)
When the objection has been determined the order passed on such objection shall be recorded in the said register and,
if necessary an amendment made in the assessment list in accordance with the result of the objection.
143.
Appeal to District Judge.
(1)
Any person dissatisfied with the order passed on his objection may appeal to the District Judge whose decision shall be
final.
(2)
Such appeal shall be presented to the District Judge within thirty days from the date of the order passed under Section
142 and shall be accompanied by an extract from the register of objection containing the order objected to and shall be
disposed of according to such procedure as may be prescribed by the State Government.
(3)
The provisions of Part II of the Indian Limitation Act, 1908 relating to appeals shall apply to every appeal preferred under
this Section.
(4)
No appeal shall be admitted under this Section unless an objection has first been determined under Section 142.
(5)
Effect shall be given by the Chief Municipal Officer to the decision of the District Judge.
(6)
Page 63/183
----- PAGE 64 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
The pendency of an appeal under this Section shall not operate to delay or prevent the levy and realisation of any tax or
instalment thereof payable in respect of any holding according to the order of assessment under appeal but if by the final
decision in the appeal it is determined that such tax or instalment ought not to have been levied or realised in whole or in
part, the Chief Municipal Officer shall refund to the person from whom the same has been levied or realised, the amount
of such tax or instalment, or the excess thereof over the amount properly leviable in accordance with such final decision,
as the case may be, or adjust such excess amount against any future demand.
144.
Valuations when to final.
- Every valuation made by the Chief Municipal Officer under this Act shall, subject to the provision of Sections 142 and
143, be final.
Chapter XVII
Tax on Advertisements other than Advertisements in Newspapers and Licence Fees for Advertisement Spaces
145.
Prohibition of advertisements without written permission of Chief Municipal Officer.
"(1) No person shall not erect, exhibit, fix or retain upon or over any land, building, wall, hoarding, frame post, kiosk,
structure, vehicle, neon-sign of sky-sign, any advertisement or display any advertisement to public view in any manner
whatsoever (including any advertisement exhibited by means of cinematograph), visible from a public street of public
place, in any place within the Municipal area without permission, in writing, of the Chief Municipal Officer.
Provided that during Lok Sabha Elections and Legislative Assembly elections, written permission of the Chief Municipal
Officer will not be necessary for the advertisement published for election campaign by political parties and candidates.
Provided further that during Lok Sabha Elections and Legislative Assembly elections, advertisement will be displayed by
the Political Parties and candidates under the provisions of Representation of the People Act, 1951." (Substituted by
THE BIHAR MUNICIPAL (AMENDMENT) ACT, 2020)
(2)
The Chief Municipal Officer shall not grant such permission, if-
(a)
a licence for the use of the particular site for the purpose of advertisement has not been taken,or
(b)
the advertisement contravenes any provisions of this Act or the Rules or the Regulations made thereunder, or
(c)
the tax, if any, due in respect of the advertisement has not been paid.
(3)
No person shall broadcast any advertisement, except on radio or television, without the permission, in writing, of the
Chief Municipal Officer.
146.
Licence for use of site for purpose of advertisement.
(1)
Except under, and in conformity with, such terms and conditions of a licence as the Municipality may, by the regulations,
provide, no person being the owner, lessee, sub-lessee, occupier or advertising agent shall use, or allow to be used, any
site in any land, building or wall, or erect, or allow to be erected, on any site any hoarding, frame, post, kiosk, structure,
vehicle, neon-sign or sky-sign for the purpose of display of any advertisement.
(2)
For the purpose of advertisement, every person-
(a)
using any site before the commencement of this Act, within ninety days from the date of such commencement, or
(b)
intending to use any site, or
(c)
whose licence for use of any site is about to expire.
shall apply for a licence or renewal of licence, as the case may be, to the Chief Municipal Officer in such Form as may
be specified by the Municipality.
Page 64/183
----- PAGE 65 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
(3)
The Chief Municipal Officer shall, after making such inspection as may be necessary and within thirty days of the receipt
of the application, grant or renew a licence, as the case may be, on payment of such fee as may be determined by
regulations, or refuse or cancel a licence, as the case may be.
(4)
The Chief Municipal Officer may, if, in his opinion, the proposed site for any advertisement is unsuitable from the
considerations of public safety, traffic hazards or aesthetic design, refuse to grant a licence, or to renew any existing
licence, within thirty days of the receipt of the application.
(5)
Every licence shall be for a period of one year except in the case of sites used for any temporary congregation of
whatever nature including fairs, festivals, circus, yatra, exhibitions, sports events, or cultural or social programmes,
(6)
The Chief Municipal Officer shall cause to be maintained a register wherein the licences issued under this Section shall
be separately recorded in respect of advertisement sites-
(a)
on telephone, telegraph, tram, electric or other posts or poles erected on or along public or private streets or public
places,
(b)
in lands or buildings, and
(c)
in cinema-halls, theatres or other places of public resort,
147.
Tax on advertisement.
(1)
Every person, who erects, exhibits, fixes or retains upon or over any land, building, wall, hoarding, frame, post, kiosk,
structure, vehicle, neon-sign or sky-sign any advertisement, or displays any advertisement to public view in any manner
whatsoever (including any advertisement exhibited by means of cinematograph), visible from a public street or public
place in any location in a municipal area including an airport or a port or a railway station, shall pay for every
advertisement, which is so erected, exhibited, fixed or retained or so displayed to public view, a tax calculated at such
rate as may be determined by Regulations:
(2)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), no tax shall be levied under this Section on any advertisement
which-
(a)
relates to a public meeting or to an election to Parliament or the State Legislature or the Municipality or any other local
authority or to candidature in respect of such election, or
(b)
is exhibited within the window of any building, if the advertisement relates to any trade, profession or business carried on
in the building, or
(c)
relates to any trade, profession or business carried on within the land or the building upon or over which such
advertisement is exhibited or to any sale or letting of such land or building or any effects therein or to any sale,
entertainment or meeting to be held on, upon or in such land or building, or
(d)
relates to the name of the land or the building upon or over which the advertisement is exhibited or the name of the
owner or the occupier of such land or building, or
(e)
relates to the business of any airport or port or railway administration, and is exhibited within such airport or port or
railway station or upon any wall or other property of an port, or railway station, or
(f)
relates to any activity of the Central Government or the State Government or any local authority.
Page 65/183
----- PAGE 66 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
(3)
The tax on any advertisement leviable under this Section shall be payable in advance in such instalments, and in such
manner, as may be determined by Regulations:
148.
Permission of Chief Municipal Officer to be void in certain cases.
- Any permission under Section 145 shall be void,-
(a)
if the advertisement contravenes the provisions of any Regulations made under this Act, or
(b)
if any material change is made in the advertisement or any part thereof without the previous permission of the Chief
Municipal Officer, or
(c)
if the advertisement or any part thereof falls otherwise than by accident, or
(d)
if, due to any work by the Central Government, the State Government, or the Municipality, or by any statutory authority,
the advertisement is required to be displaced.
149.
Licence for use of site for purpose of advertisement to be void in certain cases.
- Any licence granted under Section 146 shall be void,-
(a)
if the licensee contravenes any of the terms and conditions of licence or,
(b)
if any addition or alteration is made to, or in, the land, building, wall, hoarding, frame, post, kiosk, structure, vehicle,
neon-sign or sky-sign, upon or over which the advertisement is erected, exhibited, fixed or retained, or
(c)
if the land, building, wall, hoarding, frame, post, kiosk, structure, vehicle, neon-sign or sky-sign over which the
advertisement is erected, exhibited, fixed or retained is demolished or destroyed.
150.
Presumption in case of contravention.
- Where any advertisement has been erected, exhibited, fixed or retained upon or over any building, wall hoarding,
frame post, kiosk, structure, vehicle, neon-sign or sky-sign or displayed to public view from a public street or public place
in contravention of the provisions of this Act or the Regulations made thereunder, it shall be presumed, unless the
contrary is proved, that the contravention has been made by the person or persons on whose behalf the advertisement
purports to be or the agents of such person or persons.
151.
Power of Chief Municipal Officer in case of contravention.
- If any advertisement is erected, exhibited, fixed or retained in contravention of the provisions of this Act or the
Regulations made thereunder, the Chief Municipal Officer may require the owner or the occupier of the land, building,
wall, hoarding, frame, post, kiosk, structure, vehicle, neon-sign or sky-sign, upon or over which such advertisement is
erected, exhibited, fixed or retained to take down or remove such advertisement or may enter any land, building or other
property and cause the advertisement to be dismantled, taken down, removed, soiled, defaced or screened:
Explanation I. - The word "structure" in this chapter shall include any movable board on wheels used as an
advertisement or advertisement medium.
Explanation II. - The word "advertisement", in relation to a tax on advertisement under this Act, shall mean any word,
letter, model, sign, neon-sign, sky-sign, placard, notice, device or representation, whether illuminated or not, in the
nature of, and employed wholly or in part for the purposes of, advertisement, announcement or direction.
152.
Removal of poster, hoarding, etc.
- Notwithstanding any other action that may be taken against the owner, or the occupier of any land or building, upon or
over which there is any hoarding, frame, post, kiosk, structure, vehicle, neon-sign or sky-sign for erecting any
advertisement in contravention of the provisions of this Act or the Regulations made thereunder, or the person who
Page 66/183
----- PAGE 67 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
owns such hoarding, frame, post, kiosk, structure, vehicle, neon-sign or sky-sign, the Chief Municipal Officer may, for
removal and storage of such hoarding, frame, post, kiosk, structure, vehicle, neon-sign or sky-sign, realize from such
person such charges as may be fixed by the Empowered Standing Committee from time to time.
Chapter XVIII
Other Taxes and Tolls
153.
Toll on bridges.
- The State Government may, with the consent of a Municipality, make over to that Municipality any existing toll-bar on a
bridge within the municipal area to be administered by the Municipality and, thereupon, the Municipality shall administer
such toll-bar until the State Government directs otherwise. Every such toll-bar, while so administered, shall be deemed
to be a municipal toll-bar, and the profits derivable therefrom or such parts thereof as shall be agreed upon between the
State Government and the Municipality, shall be credited to the Municipal Fund.
154.
Declaration of ferries as Municipal ferries.
(1)
Where a ferry plies between two points on a water-course and either one or both the points are situated within a
municipal area, the State Government may, after considering the views of the concerned Municipality, declare such ferry
to be a municipal ferry, and thereupon, the profits derivable from the plying of such ferry shall be credited to the
Municipal Fund.
(2)
Due compensation shall be given by the concerned Municipality to any person for the loss which he may have sustained
as a result of a ferry being declared to be a municipal ferry.
Chapter XIX
Payment and Recovery of Taxes
A. Recovery of Taxes by Municipality
155.
Manner of recovery of taxes under the Act.
- Save as otherwise provided in this Act, any tax levied under this Act may be recovered in accordance with the following
procedure and in such manner as may be determined by Regulations:-
(a)
by presenting a bill, or
(b)
by serving a notice of demand, or
(c)
by distrait and sale of a defaulter's movable property, or
(d)
by attachment and sale of a defaulter's immovable property, or
(e)
in the case of property tax on any land or building, by attachment of rent due in respect of such land or building, or
(f)
by a certificate, distress warrant or body warrant under any law for the time being in force regulating the recovery of any
dues as public demand.
(g)
by attachment and realisation from the bank accounts and other financial instruments held, individually or jointly, in the
name of the defaulter.
156.
Time and manner of payment of taxes.
(1)
Save as otherwise provided in this Act, any tax levied under this Act shall be payable on such date, in such number of
instalments, and in such manner, as may be determined by Regulations.
(2)
Page 67/183
----- PAGE 68 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
If any amount due is paid on or before the date referred to in sub-section (1), a rebate of five percent of such amount
shall be allowed.
157.
Presentation of bill.
(1)
When any tax has become due, the Chief Municipal Officer shall cause to be presented to the person liable for the
payment thereof a bill for the amount due:
Provided that no such bill shall be necessary in the case of-
(a)
a tax on advertisements,
(b)
a tax on tourists and congregations, and
(c)
atoll:
Provided further that for the purpose of recovery of any tax by the preparation and presentation of a bill or notice of
demand and the collection of tax in pursuance thereof, the Empowered Standing Committee may, with the approval of
the Municipality, entrust the work to any agency under any law for the time being in force, or to any other agency, on
such terms and conditions as may be specified by Regulations.
Explanation I. - A bill shall be deemed to be presented under this Section if it is sent by post under certificate of posting
or by courier agency or by electronic mail to the person liable for payment of the amount included in the bill, and, in such
case, the date of certificate of posting, or the date on which it is delivered by the courier agency or by electronic mail
shall be deemed to be the date of presentation of the bill to such person.
Explanation II. - "Courier agency" shall mean any agency engaged in door to door delivery of time-sensitive documents,
utilizing the services of a person, either directly or indirectly, to carry such documents.
Explanation III. - "electronic mail" shall include e-mail or facsimile transmission.
(2)
Every such bill shall specify the particulars of the tax and the period to which the bill relates.
158.
Regulations regarding payment and recovery of tax.
- To ensure payment and recovery of its tax dues, the Municipality shall, by regulations, provide for-
(a)
issue of notice of demand, charging of notice fee, levy of interest for delayed payment at a rate as may be specified, and
the amount of penalty therefore,
(b)
issue of warrant for attachment, distress,and sale of movable property for recovery of tax dues,
(c)
attachment and sale of immovable property for recovery of tax dues, and
(d)
recovery of dues from a person about to leave the municipal area.
(e)
issue of warrant for attachment and realisation from the bank accounts and other financial instruments held, individually
or jointly, in the name of the defaulter,
(f)
issue of body warrant for recovery of tax dues.
159.
Requirement of payment of rent by occupier towards tax due on land or building.
(1)
For the purpose of recovery of property tax on any land or building from any occupier, the Chief Municipal Officer shall,
notwithstanding anything contained in any State law relating to premises tenancy or any other law for the time being in
force, cause to be served on such occupier a notice requiring him to pay to the Municipality any rent due, or falling due,
from him in respect of the land or the building to the extent necessary to satisfy the portion of the sum due for which he
Page 68/183
----- PAGE 69 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
is liable under the said Section.
(2)
Such notice shall operate as an attachment of such rent unless the portion of the sum due shall have been paid and
satisfied, and the occupier shall be entitled to credit in account with the person to whom such rent is due, any sum paid
by him to the Municipality in pursuance of such notice:
Provided that if the person to whom such rent is due is not the person primarily liable for payment of the tax on land or
building, he shall be entitled to recover from the person primarily liable for payment of such tax any amount for which
credit is claimed,
(3)
If any occupier fails to pay to the Municipality any rent due or falling due which he has been required to pay in pursuance
of a notice served upon him as aforesaid, the amount of such rent may be recovered from him by the Municipality as an
arrear of tax under this Act,
160.
Recovery of property tax on lands and buildings or any other tax or charge when owner of land or building is unknown or
ownership is dispute.
(1)
If any money is due under this Act from the owner of any land or building on account of tax on such land or building or
any other tax, expense or charge recoverable under this Act, and if the owner of such land or building is unknown or the
ownership thereof is disputed, the Chief Municipal Officer may publish twice, on such land or building at an interval of
not less than two months, a notification of such dues and of sale of such land or building for realization thereof, and may,
after the expiry of not less than one month from the date of last publication of such notification, unless the amount
recoverable is paid, sell such land or building by public auction to the highest bidder, who shall deposit, at the time of
sale, twenty-five per cent of the purchase money, and the balance thereof within thirty days of the date of sale. Such
notification shall be published in the Official Gazette and in local newspapers and by displaying on the land or the
building concerned,
(2)
After deducting the amount due to the Municipality as aforesaid, the surplus sale proceeds, if any, shall be credited to
the Municipal Fund and may be paid, on demand, to any person who establishes his right thereto to the satisfaction of
the Chief Municipal Officer or a court of competent jurisdiction.
(3)
Any person may pay the amount due at any time before the completion of the sale, whereupon the sale shall be
abandoned, such person may recover such amount by a suit in a court of competent jurisdiction from any person
beneficially interested in such land or building.
161.
Power of Chief Municipal Officer to prosecute or serve notice of demand.
(1)
When any sum is due from any person on account of-
(a)
tax on advertisements other than the advertisements published in newspapers, or
(b)
any other tax, fee or charge leviable under this Act, the Chief Municipal Officer may either prosecute such person, if
prosecution lies under the provisions of this Act, or cause to be served on such person a notice of demand in such Form
as may be specified by Regulations or in such other Form as the Chief Municipal Officer may deem fit.
(2)
The provisions of Section 158 shall apply mutatis mutandis, to every such recovery of sum due.
162.
Cancellation of irrecoverable dues.
- The Municipality may, by order, strike off the books of the Municipality any sum due on account of property tax or any
other tax or on any other account, which may appear to it to be irrecoverable.
B. Recovery of Tax on Lands or Buildings by Person Primarily Liable to Pay to the Municipality
163.
Page 69/183
----- PAGE 70 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
Apportionment of property tax on lands and buildings by person primarily liable to pay.
(1)
Save as otherwise provided in this Act, the person primarily liable to pay the property tax in respect of any land or
buildings, may recover,-
(a)
If there be but one occupier of the land or the building, from such occupier half of the tax so paid, and, if there be more
than one occupier, from each occupier half of such sum as bears to the entire amount of tax so paid by the owner the
same proportion as the value of the portion of the land or the building in the occupation of such occupier bears to the
entire value of such land or building:
Provided that if there be more than one occupier, such half of the amount may be apportioned and recovered from each
such occupier in such proportion as the annual value of the portion occupied by him bears to the total annual value of
such land or building; and
(b)
the entire amount of the surcharge on the property tax on any land or building from the occupier of such land or building
who uses it for commercial or non-residential purposes:
Provided that if there is more than one occupier, the amount of surcharge on the property tax may be apportioned and
recovered from each such occupier in such proportion as the annual value of the portion occupied by him bears to the
total annual value of such land or building.
(2)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), if, as a result of the determination of the annual value of any land
or building and the imposition of the property tax thereon under this Act for the first time, there is an increase in the
amount of tax payable in respect of such land or building from the amount of tax previously payable under this chapter,
the person primarily liable to pay the property tax may recover the difference in the amount due to such increase from
the occupier or occupiers.
164.
Mode of recovery.
- If any person primarily liable to pay any property tax on any land or building or surcharge thereon is entitled to recover
part of such property tax or surcharge thereon from an occupier of such land or building, he shall have for recovery
thereof the same rights and remedies as if such part of the property tax or the surcharge thereon were rent payable to
him by such occupier.
Chapter XX
Commercial Projects
165.
Commercial Projects and receipts therefrom.
- The Municipality may, either on its own or through public or private sector agencies, undertake the planning,
construction and operation, maintenance or management of commercial infrastructure projects, including district centres,
community and neighbourhood shopping centres, industrial estates, bus or truck terminals and tourist lodges with
commercial complexes and any other type of commercial projects on commercial basis.
Part V ? Urban Environmental Infrastructure and Services
Chapter XXI
Private Sector Participation Agreement and Assignment to other Agencies
166.
Undertaking of project by Municipality or by other agency.
- Notwithstanding anything contained elsewhere in this Act, but subject to the provisions of any State law relating to
planning development, operation, maintenance and management of municipal infrastructure and services, a municipality
may, in the discharge of its functions specified in Section 45, Section 46, and Section 47,-
(a)
promote the undertaking of any project for supply of urban environmental infrastructure or services by participation of a
company, firm, society, trust or any body corporate or any institution, or government agency or any agency under any
other law for the time being in force, in financing, construction, maintenance and operation of such project of a
Municipality irrespective of its cost,
Page 70/183
----- PAGE 71 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
(b)
consider and approve the undertaking of any project relating to urban environmental infrastructure or services by a
company, or firm, or society, or body corporate in terms of a private sector participation agreement or jointly with any
such agency, and
(c)
consider and approve the undertaking of any project relating to urban environmental infrastructure or services by any
institution, or government agency or any agency under any other law for the time being in force, or jointly with any such
agency,
167.
Types of Private Sector Participation Agreements.
(1)
Private Sector participation agreements shall be such as may be prescribed.
(2)
Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provisions of this Section, such agreements include the following:
(a)
Build-Own-Operate-Transfer Agreement,
(b)
Build-Own-Operate-Maintain Agreement,
(c)
Build and Transfer Agreement,
(d)
Build-Lease-Transfer Agreement,
(e)
Build-Transfer-Operate Agreement,
(f)
Lease and Management Agreement,
(g)
Management Agreement,
(h)
Rehabilitate-Operate-Transfer Agreement,
(i)
Rehabilitate-Own-Operate-Maintain Agreement,
(j)
Service Contract Agreement, and
(k)
Supply Operate-Transfer Agreement.
168.
Functions assigned to Municipality or other agencies.
- In the discharge of its obligations for providing urban environmental infrastructure and services in relation to water
supply drainage and sewerage, solid waste management, communication systems and agencies commercial
infrastructure, the Municipality may, where ever considered appropriate in the public interest, -
(a)
discharge any of its obligations on its own, or
(b)
enter into any private sector participation agreement.
Chapter XXII
Water-supply
A. General
169.
Definitions.
- In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires,- (1) "communication pipe"means-
Page 71/183
----- PAGE 72 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
(a)
here the premises supplied with water abut on the part of the street in which the main is laid, and the service pipe enters
those premises otherwise than through the outer wall of a building, abutting on the street and has a stopcock placed in
those premises and as near to the boundary of that street as is reasonably practicable, so much of the service pipe as
lies between the main and such stopcock, and
(b)
in any other case, so much of the service pipe as lies between the main and the boundary of the street in which the main
is laid, and includes the ferrule at the junction of the service pipe with the main, and also includes,-
(i)
where the communication pipe ends at a stopcock, such stopcock, and
(ii)
any stopcock fitted on the communication pipe between the end thereof and the main;
(2)
"main" means a pipe laid by the Municipality for the purpose of giving a general supply of water as distinct from a supply
to individual consumers, and includes any apparatus used in the connection with such pipe;
(3)
"service-pipe" means so much of any pipe for supplying water from a main to any premises as is subject to
water-pressure from that main, or would be so subject but for the closing of any tap;
(4)
"supply-pipe" means so much of any service pipe as is not communication pipe;
(5)
"trunk-main" means a main constructed for the purpose of conveying water from a source of supply to a filter or reservoir
or from one filter or reservoir to another filter or reservoir, or for the purpose of conveying water in bulk from one part of
the limits of supply to another part of such limits, or for the purpose of giving, or taking, a supply of water in bulk;
(6)
"water-fittings" includes pipes (other than mains), taps, cocks, valves, ferrules, meters, cisterns, baths and other similar,
apparatus used in connection with the supply and use of water.
B. Functions in Relation to Water-supply
170.
Duty of Municipality to supply water.
(1)
It shall be the duty of the Municipality to take steps, from time to time, either on its own or through any other agency,-
(a)
to ascertain the sufficiency and wholesomeness of water supplied within the municipal area,
(b)
to provide, or to arrange to provide, a supply of wholesome water in pipes to every part of the municipal area in which
there are houses, for domestic purposes of the occupants thereof, and for taking the pipes affording that supply to such
point or points as will enable the houses to be connected thereto at a reasonable cost, so, that the Municipality shall not
be required to do anything which is not practicable at a reasonable cost or to provide such supply to any part of the
municipal area where such supply is already available at such point or points, and
(c)
to provide, as far as possible, a supply of wholesome water otherwise than in pipes to every part of the municipal area in
which there are houses, for domestic purposes of the occupants thereof, and to which it is not practicable to provide
supply in pipes at a reasonable cost, and in which danger to health may arise from the insufficiency or
unwholesomeness of the existing supply and a public supply is required and may be provided at a reasonable cost, and
to secure that such supply is available within a reasonable distance of every house in that part.
(2)
If any question arises under clause (b) of sub-section (1) as to whether anything is or is not practicable at a reasonable
cost or as to the point or points to which pipes must be taken in order to enable houses to be connected to such point or
points at a reasonable cost, or, if any question arises under clause (c) of that subsection as to whether a public supply
may be provided at a reasonable cost, such question shall be decided by the Municipality.
Page 72/183
----- PAGE 73 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
171.
Supply of water to connected premises.
(1)
The Chief Municipal Officer may, on an application by the owner, lessee or occupier of any building, either on his own or
through any other agency, arrange for supply of water from the nearest main to such building for domestic purposes in
such quantity as may be deemed to be reasonable and may, at any time, limit the quantity of water to be supplied
whenever considered necessary:
Provided that the Chief Municipal Officer may, by order in writing, delegate the responsibility of receiving the application
to any other agency.
(2)
For the water supplied under sub-section (1), payment shall be made at such rate as may be fixed by the Municipality
from time to time:
Provided that such rale shall, as far as practicable, cover the costs on account of management, operation, maintenance,
depreciation, debt servicing, and other charges related to waterworks and distribution costs, including
distribution-losses, if any.
(3)
A supply of water for domestic purposes shall be deemed not to include a supply-
(a)
to any institutional building, assembly building, business building, mercantile building, industrial building, storage
building, or hazardous building, referred to in clause (2) of Section 312 or any part of such building other than that used
as a residential building, or educational building, within the meaning of sub-clause (a), or sub-clause (b), of clause (2) of
that Section,
(b)
for building purposes,
(c)
for watering roads and paths,
(d)
for purposes of irrigation,
(e)
for gardens, fountains, swimming pools, or for any ornamental or mechanical purpose, or
(f)
for animals or for washing vehicles where such animals or vehicles are kept for sale or hire.
172.
Supply of water for non-domestic purposes.
(1)
The Chief Municipal Officer, or the other agency as the case may be, may, on receiving an application, in writing,
specifying the purpose for which the supply of water is required and the quantity which is likely to be consumed, supply
for any purpose other than domestic purpose, on such terms and conditions, including the condition of withdrawal of
water, as may be determined by Regulations.
(2)
For the water supplied under sub-section (1), payment shall be made at such rate as may be fixed by the Municipality
from time to time:
Provided that such rate shall, as far as practicable, cover the costs on account of management, operation, maintenance,
depreciation, debt servicing, and other charges related to waterworks and distribution costs, including
distribution-losses, if any.
(3)
The Chief Municipal Officer may withdraw such supply at any time, if he thinks it necessary to do so, in order to maintain
a sufficient supply of water for domestic purpose.
173.
Provision of communication pipes and fittings.
(1)
Page 73/183
----- PAGE 74 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
When an application under Section 171 or Section 172 has been received, all necessary communication pipes and
fittings shall be supplied by the Municipality or the other agency, as the case may be, and the work of laying and
connecting such communication pipes and fittings shall be executed under the order of the Chief Municipal Officer or the
other agency, as the case may be.
(2)
The cost of making such connections and of such communication pipes and fittings and of the work of laying and
connecting such communication pipes and fittings shall be paid by the owner or the person making such application.
(3)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), the Chief Municipal Officer may require any owner, or the person
applying for supply of water, to provide, to his satisfaction, all communication pipes and fittings, and to carry out at the
owner's or the applicant's cost and under his supervision and inspection, the work of laying and connecting such
communication pipes and fittings.
(4)
Where it is practicable to supply water at a reasonable cost within the meaning of sub-section (2) of Section 171, the
work relating to making of connection and fixing of communication pipes and fittings shall be executed within a period of
one month from the date of receipt of the application referred to sub-section (1).
(5)
The cost recovered under this Section for making connection and supplying communication pipes and fittings shall be
spent only on work relating to water-supply.
174.
Water-supply through hydrants, stand-posts and other conveniences.
(1)
The Municipality may, in exceptional circumstances, either on its or through other agency, provide, free of cost, supply of
wholesome water to the public within the municipal area and may for the said purpose, erect public hydrants or
stand-posts or other conveniences.
(2)
The Municipality may order the closure of a public hydrant, stand-post or other conveniences for reasons to be recorded
in writing.
(3)
The Municipality may either on its own or through other agency provide for safety, maintenance and use of such public
hydrants, stand-posts or other conveniences, subject to such conditions as may be specified by Regulations.
175.
Provision for fire hydrants.
(1)
The Chief Municipal Officer shall, either on his own or through other agency, fix hydrants on water-mains, other than
trunk mains, at such places as may be most convenient for affording supply of water for extinguishing any fire, and shall
keep in good order such hydrants, and may, from time to time, renew every such hydrant.
(2)
Letters, marks or figures shall be displayed prominently on a wall, building or other structure near every such hydrant to
denote the situation of such hydrant.
(3)
As soon as the work relating to any such hydrant is completed, the Chief Municipal Officer or the other agency, as the
case may be, shall deposit a key thereof at the nearest place where a public fire engine is kept and in such other places
as he may deem necessary.
(4)
The Chief Municipal Officer may, at the request and expense of the owner or the occupier of any building referred to in
clause (a) of sub-section (3) of Section 171, which is situated in or near a street in which a pipe, not being a trunk main,
is laid, and being of sufficient dimensions to carry a hydrant, fix on the pipe, and keep in good order, and, from time to
time, renew, one or more fire hydrants as near to such building as may be convenient, to be used only for extinguishing
fire.
(5)
Page 74/183
----- PAGE 75 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
The Chief Municipal Officer shall allow any person to take water for extinguishing fire from any pipe on which a hydrant
is fixed-without any payment.
176.
Supply of water to areas outside municipal area.
(1)
The Municipality may, subject to the satisfaction of the reasonable requirements of water within the municipal area,
supply water to a local authority or any person outside the municipal area, either by itself or through any other agency.
(2)
The supply of water under sub-section (1) shall be at such rate, not being less than the cost of production and delivery,
including the costs of debt servicing, depreciation of plant and machinery, distribution-loss, and other charges, if any, as
the Municipality may, from time to time, determine.
C. Planning, Construction Operation, Maintenance and Management of Waterworks
177.
Public tanks, sub-soil water, etc. to vest in Municipality.
- Subject to the provisions of chapter XXI, as public tanks, reservoirs, cisterns, wells, tube-wells, aqueducts, conduits,
tunnels, pipes, taps and other waterworks, whether made, laid or erected at the cost met from the Municipal Fund or
otherwise, and all bridges, buildings, engines, works, materials and things connected therewith, or appertaining thereto,
and any adjacent land, not being private property, appertaining to any such water-source, which are situated within the
municipal area, shall vest in the Municipality.
178.
Vesting of sub-soil rights.
- All rights over the sub-soil water resources within the municipal area shall vest in the Municipality.
179.
Works to be undertaken for supply of water.
- Subject to the provisions of Section 10, for the purpose of providing the municipal area with proper and sufficient
supply of water for public and private uses, the Municipality, either on its own or through any other agency,-
(a)
shall cause to be constructed or maintained such tanks, reservoirs, engines, pipes, taps, and other waterworks as may
be necessary, within or outside the municipal area,
(b)
may purchase, or take on lease, any waterworks, or right to store or to take and convey water, within or outside the
municipal area, and
(c)
may enter into any agreement with any person or authority for the supply of water:
Provided that the Municipality may, within the approval of the State Government, make over to, or take over from, a
statutory body any water works so as to do anything which may be necessary or expedient for the purpose of carrying
out its functions under this Act or under any other law for the time being in force.
180.
Management of waterworks.
- Subject to the provisions of chapter XXI, the Chief Municipal Officer shall, either on his own or through any other
agency, manage a waterworks and allied facilities belonging to the Municipality and shall maintain the same in good
repair and efficient condition and shall cause to be done, from time to time, all such things as shall be necessary or
expedient for improving such waterworks and facilities.
181.
Purity of water for domestic purpose.
(1)
The Chief Municipal Officer shall, either on his own or through any other agency, at all times, ensure that the water in
any waterworks belonging to the Municipality, from which water is supplied for domestic purposes, is wholesome.
(2)
The Municipality or the other agency, as the case may be, shall when so required by any Competent Authority under any
law for the time being in force, arrange for the examination of water supplied for human consumption for the purpose of
Page 75/183
----- PAGE 76 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
determining whether the water is wholesome.
182.
Water not to be wasted.
(1)
No person, being the occupier of any premises to which water is supplied by the Municipality or the other agency, as the
case may be, under this chapter, shall on account of negligence or other circumstances under the control of such
occupier, allow the water to be wasted, or allow the pipes, works or fittings for the supply of water in his premises to be
out of repair causing thereby waste of water.
(2)
No person shall unlawfully flood, or draw off, divert, or take water from, any waterworks belonging to, or under the
control of, the Municipality, or from any watercourse or stream by which such waterworks is supplied.
(3)
Any person who contravenes the provisions of this Section shall be liable to such fine, not exceeding ten thousand
rupees, as may be determined by Regulations.
D. Tube-wells and Wells
183.
Prohibition regarding sinking of tube-wells or digging of wells etc.
(1)
No person shall except with the prior permission, in writing, of the Chief Municipal Officer, sink any tube-well or dig or
construct any new well, tank, pond, cistern or fountain in any municipal area.
(2)
The Chief Municipal Officer may grant such permission, and may issue a licence for the purposes of sub-section (1), on
such conditions, and on payment of such annual fee, as the Municipality may, from time to time, specify.
(3)
If any such work of sinking of tube-well is begun or completed without such permission, the Chief Municipal Officer may,-
(a)
by notice, in writing, require the owner or the other person, who has done such work to fill up or demolish such work,
within such time as may be specified in the notice, and if the work of filling up or demolition is not done within the time so
specified, cause the work to be done and realize the expenses therefore from the owner or the person to whom such
notice was given, or
(b)
grant permission to retain such work on such terms and conditions as the Empowered Standing Committee may
consider fit to impose.
184.
Power to require filling up of wells.
- Whenever a supply of water has been provided in any municipal area, the Municipality may, by notice, in writing,
require the owner, lessee, or occupier, as the case may be, of a well, tube-well, tank or other, water area, forming a part
of any premises in such area, to fill up such well, tank or other water area.
185.
Power to set apart wells tanks, etc. for drinking, culinary, bathing and washing purposes.
- The Empowered Standing Committee may, by order published at such places as it may thinks fit, set apart any tank,
well, spring or watercourse, or any part thereof, vested In the Municipality or, by an agreement with the owner thereof,
any private tank, well, spring or watercourse or part washing thereof, subject to any right which such owner may retain
with the consent of the Empowered Standing Committee, for any of the following purposes, namely:-
(a)
supply of water exclusively for drinking or for culinary purposes or for both, or
(b)
bathing, or
(c)
washing animals or clothes, or
(d)
Page 76/183
----- PAGE 77 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
any other purpose connected with health, cleanliness or comfort of the inhabitants, and may, by like order, prohibit
bathing, or washing of animals or clothes or other things at any public place, not set apart for such purposes, or prohibit
any other act by which water in any public place maybe rendered foul or unfit for use, or provide for alternative facilities
and conveniences to regulate the use of any tank, well, spring or watercourse to promote public safety, health and
welfare.
E. Water-supply Mains and Pipes
186.
Power to lay mains, service pipes, etc.
(1)
The Chief Municipal Officer may, either on his own or through any other agency, lay whether within or outside the
municipal area, a main, or such service pipes with such stopcocks and other water fittings as he may deem necessary
for supply of water to premises-
(a)
in any street, and.
(b)
with the consent of every owner or occupier of any land, not forming part of a street, in, over or on that land, and may,
either on his own or through any other agency, from time to time, inspect, repair, alter, or renew or may, at any time,
remove any such main, or service pipes, so laid, whether under this Section or under any other provision of this Act:
Provided that where a consent required for the purposes of this sub-section is withheld, the Chief Municipal Officer may,
after giving the owner or the occupier of the land a notice, in writing, of his intention so to do, either on his own or
through any other agency, lay the main or the service pipes, as the case may be, in, over or on that land without such
consent.
(2)
Where a service main or a service pipe has been lawfully laid in, over or on the land not forming part of a street, the
Chief Municipal Officer or any other agency appointed by him may, from time to time, enter upon that land and inspect,
repair, alter, renew or remove the pipe or lay a new pipe in substitution thereof, but shall pay compensation for any
damage done in the course of such action.
187.
Prohibition for laying water pipes and construction of latrines and cesspools.
- Subject to such terms and conditions as may be provided by Regulations for from time to time, the Chief Municipal
Officer shall have the power to prohibit-
(a)
a laying of water-pipes in any place where water is likely to be polluted,
(b)
construction of latrine or cesspool within six metres of any well, tank, water-pipe, or cistern, or
(c)
the use of water from any polluted source of supply.
188.
Power in relation to water supply.
- The Chief Municipal Officer may, subject to such terms and conditions as may be specified by Regulations from time to
time, require-
(a)
the provision of separate supply-pipes for each land or building or each storey of a building,
(b)
the owner of a land or building, or the person primarily liable for payment of tax in respect of a land or building, having
no supply, or inadequate supply, or wholesome water for domestic purposes, to take supply of water from the mains of
the Municipality and to set up electric pumps for the purpose, and
(c)
the-occupier of any land or building to which water is supplied by the municipality, to keep the supply-pipes in efficient
repair.
189.
Page 77/183
----- PAGE 78 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
Power to turn off supply of water to premises.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the Chief Municipal Officer may cut off the connection between any
waterworks of the Municipality and any premises to which water is supplied from such water-works, or may turn off such
supply, in any of the following cases, namely:-
(a)
If the person, whose premises are supplied with water, neglects to pay any sum payable under sub-section (2) of
Section 171 or sub-section (2) of Section 173, when due,
(b)
if, after receipt of a notice, in writing, from the Chief Municipal Officer requiring him to refrain from so doing, the owner or
the occupier of the premises continues to use the water or to permit the same to be used in contravention of the
provisions of this Act or the Regulations made thereunder,
(c)
if the occupier of the premises contravenes the provisions of subsection (3) of Section 171,
(d)
if the occupier refuses to admit any officer or other employee of the Municipality, duly authorized in that behalf, into the
premises for the purpose of making any inspection under this Act or the Regulations made thereunder,
(e)
if the owner or the occupier of the premises wilfully or negligently damages his meter or any pipe or tap conveying water
from any waterworks of the Municipality,
(f)
if any pipes, taps, works or fittings, connected with the supply of water to the premises, be found, on examination, by the
Chief Municipal Officer, to be out of repair to such an extent as to cause so serious a waste of water that, in his opinion,
immediate prevention is necessary,
(g)
if the use of the premises for human habitation has been prohibited under this Act,
(h)
if there is any water-pipe situated within the premises to which no tap or other efficient means of turning off the
water-supply is attached, and
(i)
if, by reason of a leak in the service pipe or fitting, damage is caused to any public street and immediate prevention is
necessary:
Provided that-
(i)
water-supply shall not be cut off or turned off in any case referred to in clause (g) or clause (i), unless a notice, in writing,
of not less than seventy-two hours has been given to the occupier of the premises, and
(ii)
in the case referred to in clause (f) or clause (i), the Chief Municipal Officer may carryout necessary repair to pipes, taps,
works, or fittings and recover the expenses thereof from the owner or the occupier of the premises.
(2)
The expenses of cutting-off water-supply shall be paid by the owner or the occupier of the premises, as the case may
be, and shall be recoverable from such owner or occupier as an arrear of tax under this Act.
F. Water Meters and Recovery of Charges
190.
Power to provide water meters and recover charges.
- The Municipality may,-
(a)
by Regulations, specify the terms and conditions for-
(i)
provision of water meters, either by itself or through an agent or by the owner or the occupier of any land or building, and
(ii)
Page 78/183
----- PAGE 79 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
recovery of charges for supply of such water as recorded by water meters, and
(b)
take necessary steps for detection and elimination of any fraud in respect of such water meters.
191.
Entrustment of operation and maintenance of waterworks and billing and collection of charges.
- The Chief Municipal Officer may, with the prior approval of the Empowered Standing Committee, entrust the work of
operation and maintenance of waterworks in the municipal area and the work of billing and collection of water charges to
any agency under any law for the time being in force, or any private agency.
G. Offence in Relation to Water-supply
192.
Liability for offence in relation to water-supply.
- If any offence relating to water-supply is committed under this Act in any premises connected with the municipal
waterworks, the owner, the person primarily liable for payment of property tax, and the occupier of the said premises
shall be jointly and severally liable for such offence.
Chapter XXIII
Drainage and Sewerage
A. Functions in Relation to Drainage and Sewerage
193.
Municipality to provide drainage, sewerage and outfall.
- The Municipality shall, either on its own or through any other agency, construct and maintain drains and sewers, and
provide a safe and sufficient outfall, in or outside the municipal area for effectual drainage and proper discharge of
storm-water and sewage of the municipal area in such manner as may not cause any nuisance, whether by flooding any
part of the municipal area, or of the areas surrounding the outfall, or in any other way:
Provided that no place, which has not been used before the commencement of this Act for any of the purposes specified
in this Section, shall be so used except-
(i)
in conformity with the provisions of any State law relating to land use planning or any other law relating thereto for the
time being in force, or
(ii)
with the approval of the State Government, in the absence of any such law:
Provided further that with effect from such date as may be appointed by the State Government in this behalf, no sewage
shall be discharged into any watercourse until it has been so treated as not to affect prejudicially the purity and the
quality of the water of such water course.
194.
Provision of means for disposal of sewage.
- For the purposes of receiving, treating, storing, disinfecting, distributing, or otherwise disposing of sewage, the
Municipality may, either on its own or through any other agency, construct, operate, maintain, develop and manage any
works within or outside the municipal area.
B. Proprietary Rights of Municipality in Respect of Drains and Sewage Disposal Works
195.
Vesting of public drains and sewage disposal works.
- Subject to the provisions of Chapter XXI, -
(a)
all public drains, all drains in alongside or under any public street, and all sewage disposal works, constructed or
acquired out of the Municipal Fund or otherwise, and all works, materials and things appertaining thereto, which are
situated within or outside the municipal area, shall be vested in the Municipality,
(b)
for the purposes of laying, constructing, enlarging, deepening or otherwise repairing or maintaining any such drain or
sewage disposal system, so much of the sub-soil appertaining thereto, as may be necessary for such purposes, shall be
deemed also to be vested in the Municipality, and
(c)
Page 79/183
----- PAGE 80 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
all drains and ventilation shafts, pipes and all appliances and fittings connected with the drainage works constructed,
erected or set up out of the Municipal Fund in or upon premises, not belonging to the Municipality, whether
(i)
before or after the commencement of this Act, and
(ii)
for the use of the owner or the occupier of such premises or not, shall, unless the Municipality has otherwise
determined, or does at any time otherwise determine, vest, and shall be deemed always to have vested, in the
Municipality.
Explanation. - All public and other drains, which are vested in the Municipality, are hereinafter referred to in this Act as
municipal drains
196.
Power to make over to, or to take over from, Statutory Authority drainage and sewerage works.
- The Municipality may, with the prior approval of the State Government and subject to such conditions as the
Municipality may determine, make over to, or take over from, an authority under any law for the time being in force any
drain or sewer or sewage disposal works for administration and management thereof.
C. Municipal Drains
197.
Power of making drain.
(1)
The Chief Municipal Officer, or any other agency authorized by him in this behalf may carry any municipal drain through,
across, or under, any street, or any place laid out as, or intended for, a street or under any cellar or vault, which may be
under any street, and, after giving a reasonable notice in writing to the owner or the occupier thereof, into, through or
under any land whatsoever within the municipal area, or, for the purpose of out-fall or distribution of sewage, outside the
municipal area.
(2)
The Chief Municipal Officer, or any other agency authorized by him in this behalf, may construct any new drain in place
of an existing drain or repair or alter any municipal drain so constructed.
198.
Sewage and rain water to be separate.
- For the purpose of effectual drainage of any premises in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, it shall be
competent for the Chief Municipal Officer, or any other agency authorized by him in this behalf, to require that there shall
be one drain for sewage, offensive matter and polluted water and an entirely separate drain for rain water or unpolluted
sub-soil water or both rain water and unpolluted sub-soil water, each emptying into separate municipal drains or other
suitable places.
199.
Alteration, discontinuance, cleansing, etc, of drain.
- Subject to such terms and conditions as may be specified by Regulations from time to time, the Chief Municipal Officer,
or any other agency authorized by him in this behalf, may-
(a)
enlarge, alter the course of, lessen, or arch over, or otherwise improve,, any municipal drain within the municipal area,
(b)
discontinue, close up, or destroy any such drain,
(c)
properly flush, clean, and empty such drain, and
(d)
restrict throwing, emptying, or turning into any municipal drain, or into any drain communicating into the municipal drain,
any matter likely to damage the drain or interfere with the free flow of its contents or affect prejudicially the treatment and
disposal of its contents, or any chemicals, refuse or waste streem, or any liquid which is dangerous or is the cause of a
nuisance or is prejudicial to health, or any petroleum Class, 'A', petroleum Class 'B' or petroleum Class 'C'.
Explanation. - For the purposes of this Section, the expression "petroleum Class' 'A', petroleum Class 'B' or petroleum
Class 'C' shall have the same meaning as in the Petroleum Act, 1934.
Page 80/183
----- PAGE 81 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
D. Drains of Private Streets and Drainage of Premises
200.
Powers in relation to drainage.
- Subject to such terms and conditions as may be specified by Regulations from time to time, the Chief Municipal Officer,
or any other authorized by him in this behalf, may-
(a)
permit the owner or the occupier of any premises having a drain, or the owner of a private drain, to have his drain made
to communicate with the municipal drain for discharge of foul water,
(b)
limit the use of the municipal drain by the owner or the occupier of any premises having a private drain or the owner of a
private drain,
(c)
require the owner of any land or building, which is without sufficient means of effectual drainage, to construct a drain and
to provide all such appliances and fittings as may be necessary for drainage of such undrained land or building,
(d)
require the group of owners of block of premises, which may be drained more economically or advantageously in
combination than separately, to undertake at their own expense any work necessary for drainage of such block of
premises to be drained by a combined operation,
(e)
require the owner of any land or building to carry out such construction, repair or other work as may be necessary for
effectual drainage of such land or building, or
(f)
authorize any person, who desires to drain his land or building into a municipal drain through a drain of which he is not
an owner, to use the drain or declare such person to be the joint owner thereof.
201.
Premises not to be erected without drains.
(1)
It shall not be lawful to erect or re-erect any premises in the municipal area or to occupy any such premises unless-
(a)
a drain is constructed of such size, materials and description, at such level, and with such fall, as may appear to the
Chief Municipal Officer to be necessary for the effectual drainage of such premises,
(b)
there have been provided and set up on such premises such appliances and fittings as may appear to the Chief
Municipal Officer to be necessary for the purposes of gathering or receiving the filth and other polluted and obnoxious
matters, and conveying the same, from such premises and of effectually flushing the drain of such premises and every
fixture connected therewith.
(2)
The drain so constructed shall empty into a municipal drain situated at a distance of not exceeding thirty meters from the
premises, but if no municipal drain is situated within such distance, then, such drain shall empty into a cesspol situated
within the distance to be specified by the Chief Municipal Officer for the purpose.
E. Trade Effluent
202.
Special provisions relating to trade effluent.
- Subject to the provisions of this Act and the Regulations made thereunder and of any other law for the time being in
force, the occupier of any trade premises may, with the approval of the Municipality or, so far as may be permitted by
this Act or the Regulations made thereunder or any other law for the time being in force, without such approval,
discharge into the municipal drain any trade effluent proceeding from such premises.
203.
Special provisions regarding drainage of trade effluent.
-  Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or the Regulations made thereunder or any usage, custom or
agreement, where, in the opinion of the Chief Municipal Officer, any trade premises are without sufficient means of
Page 81/183
----- PAGE 82 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
effectual drainage and treatment of trade effluent or the drains thereof, though otherwise not objectionable, are not
adapted to the general drainage system of the municipal area, or the effluent is not of specified purity, the Chief
Municipal Officer may, by notice, in writing, require the owner or the occupier of such premises-
(a)
to discharge the trade effluent in such manner, at such times, through such drains, and subject to such conditions, as
may be specified in the notice, and to cease to discharge the trade effluent otherwise than in accordance with the notice,
(b)
to purify the trade effluent before its discharge into a municipal drain and to set up for purifying the trade effluent such
appliances, apparatus, fittings and plants, as may be specified in the notice,
(c)
to construct a drain of such material, size and description, and laid at such level, and according to such alignment, and
with such fall and outlet, as may be specified in the notice,
(d)
to alter, amend, repair or renovate any purification plant, existing drain, apparatus, plant-fitting or article used in
connection with any municipal or house-drain.
Chapter XXIV
Other Provisions Relating to Water-supply, Drainage and Sewerage .
204.
Connection with water works mains and drains not to be made without permission.
- Without the permission, in writing, of the Chief Municipal Officer, no person shall, for any purpose whatsoever, at any
time, make, or cause to be made, any connection or communication with any waterworks or mains or drains constructed
or maintained by, or vested in the Municipality.
205.
Buildings, railway and private streets not to be erected or constructed over water mains or on municipal drains without
permission.
(1)
Without the permission of the Chief Municipal Officer, no building, wall, fence or other structure shall be erected, and no
railway or private street shall be constructed, on any municipal drain or on erected or any water mains constructed or
maintained by, or vested in, Municipality.
(2)
If any building, wall, fence or other structure is erected, or any railway or private street is constructed, on any drain, or
water works without the permission as aforesaid, the Chief Municipal Officer may remove, or otherwise deal with, such
erection or construction in such manner as he may think fit.
(3)
The expenses incurred by the Chief Municipal Officer for carrying out the purposes of sub-section (2), shall be paid by
the owner of the private street or of the building, fence, wall or other structure or, as the case may be, by the railway
administration or the person responsible and shall be recoverable as an arrear of tax under this Act.
206.
Railway administration to be informed in certain cases.
- If the Chief Municipal Officer desires to place or carry any pipe or drain or to do any other work connected with
water-supply or drainage across any railway line, he shall inform the railway administration, who may execute the same
at the cost of municipality.
207.
Chief Municipal Officer not to sanctioned building plan unless plan relating to water supply etc. is in conformity with
Rules and Regulations.
-  Subject to the provisions of Section 10, any building plan submitted to the Chief Municipal Officer for sanction shall
confirm to such Rules or regulations relating to water-supply, drainage, privy, urinal accommodation within the premises,
and sewerage as may be made in this behalf, and no building plan shall be sanctioned by the Chief Municipal Officer
unless it so confirms.
208.
Maps of underground water mains, supply pipes, drains, etc.
Page 82/183
----- PAGE 83 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
-  Subject to the provisions of Section 10 and Section 298, the Chief Municipal Officer shall cause to be maintained
complete survey maps, drawings and descriptions of water-supply mains, supply pipes, drains, etc. municipal drains,
sewers, and connections thereto from all premises in the municipal area.
209.
Rights of user of property for aqueducts, line, etc.
(1)
The Chief Municipal Officer may, either on his own or through any other agency authorized by him in this behalf, place
and maintain aqueducts, conduits and lines of mains or pipes or drains over, under, along, or across any immovable
property, whether within or outside the limits of the municipal area, without acquiring such immovable property, and may,
at any time, for the purpose of examining, repairing, altering or removing such aqueducts, conduits or lines of mains or
pipes or drains, after giving a reasonable notice of his intention so to do, enter on any such immovable property over,
under, along or across which the aqueducts, conduits, or lines of mains or pipes or drains have been placed:
Provided that the Municipality or the other agency, as the case may be, shall not acquire any right, other than a right of a
user, in such property over, under, along or across which any aqueduct, conduit or line of mains or pipe or drain is
placed.
(2)
The powers conferred under sub-section (1) not be exercised in respect of any property which is vested in the State
Government or any local authority, or is under the control or management of the Central Government or the railway
administration, save with the permission of the State Government or the local authority or the Central Government or the
railway administration, as the case may be, and in accordance with such Regulations as may be made in this behalf:
Provided that the Chief Municipal Officer may, without such permission, repair, renew or amend any existing works, the
character or position of which is not to be altered, if such repair, renewal or amendment is urgently necessary in order to
maintain, without interruption, the supply of water, drainage, or disposal of sewage, or is such that any delay would be
dangerous to health, human life or property.
(3)
In the exercise of the powers conferred on the Chief Municipal Officer by this Section, he, or any other agency
authorized by him in this behalf, shall cause as little damage and inconvenience as may be possible, and shall make full
compensation for any damage or inconvenience caused by him.
210.
Power of owner of premises to place pipes and drains through land belonging to other persons.
(1)
If it appears to the Chief Municipal Officer that the only or the most convenient means of water-supply to, and drainage
of, any premises is by placing or carrying any pipe or drain over, under, along or across the immovable property of
another person, the Chief Municipal Officer may, by order, in writing, authorize the owner of such premises to place or
carry such pipe or drain over, under, along or across such immovable property:
Provided that before making any such order, the Chief Municipal Officer shall give to the owner of the Immovable
property a reasonable opportunity of showing cause, within such time as may be specified by him by order, in writing, as
to why the order should not be made:
Provided further that the owner of the premises shall not acquire any right, other than the right of a user, in such
immovable property over, under, along or across which any such pipe or drain is placed or carried.
(2)
Upon the order under sub-section (1), the owner of the premises may, after giving a reasonable notice of his intention so
to do, enter upon such immovable property with assistants and workmen at any time between sunrise and sunset for the
purpose of placing a pipe or drain over, under, along or across such immovable property or for the purpose of repairing
such pipe or drain.
(3)
In placing or carrying a pipe or drain under this Section, as little damage as possible shall be done to such immovable
property, and the owner of the premises shall-
(a)
cause the pipe or drain to be placed or carried with the least possible delay,
(b)
Page 83/183
----- PAGE 84 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
fill in, reinstate, and make good, at his own cost and with the least possible delay, any land opened, broken up or
removed for the purpose of placing or carrying such pipe or drain, and
(c)
pay compensation to the owner of such immovable property and to any other person, who sustains damage by reason
of the placing or carrying of such pipe or drain.
(4)
If the owner of such immovable property over, under, along or across which a pipe or drain has been placed or carried
under this Section, while such immovable property was not built upon, desires to erect any building on such immovable
property, the Chief Municipal Officer shall, by notice, in writing, require the owner of the premises to close, remove or
divert the pipe or drain in such manner as shall be approved by him and to fill in, reinstate and make good such
immovable property as if the pipe or drain had not been placed or carried over, under, along or across such immovable
property:
Provided that no action under this sub-section shall be taken unless, in the opinion of the Chief Municipal Officer, it is
necessary or expedient for the construction of the proposed building, or the safe enjoyment thereof, that the pipe or
drain should be closed, removed or diverted.
211.
Power of Chief Municipal Officer to affix shafts etc. for ventilation of drain or cesspool and testing of drain.
- Subject to such terms and conditions as may be specified by Regulations from time to time, the Chief Municipal Officer
may, either on his own or through any other agency, authorized by him in this behalf,-
(a)
erect upon any land or building or affix to the out side of any building, or to any tree, any shaft or pipe as may appear to
him to be necessary for the purpose of ventilating any drain or cesspool, whether vested in the Municipality or not, and
(b)
examine the condition of a private drain or cesspool within the municipal area in respect of which there is reasonable
ground for believing that such private drain or cesspool is in such condition as is prejudicial to health, or is a nuisance,
by applying any test other than a test by water under pressure, and if he deems it necessary, by opening the ground.
212.
Power of Chief Municipal Officer to execute work after giving notice to person liable.
(1)
When, under the provisions of this Act, any person is required, or is liable, to execute any work in relation to
water-supply, drainage and sewerage within the municipal area, the Chief Municipal Officer may, in accordance with the
provisions of this Act and the Regulations made thereunder, cause such work to be executed after giving such person
an opportunity to executing such work within such time as may be specified by him for this purpose.
(2)
The expenses incurred or likely to be incurred by the Chief Municipal Officer in the execution of any such work shall be
payable by such person, and the expenses incurred by the Chief Municipal Officer in connection with the maintenance of
such work or enjoyment of amenities and conveniences rendered possible by such work shall be payable by the person
or persons enjoying such amenities and conveniences.
(3)
The expenses referred to in sub-section (2) shall be recoverable from the person or persons liable therefor as an arrear
of tax under this Act.
213.
Work to be done by licensed plumber.
(1)
The Empowered Standing Committee may grant licence to any person possessing such technical qualification as may
be determined by Regulations to act as a licensed plumber.
(2)
No person, other than a licensed plumber, shall execute any work described in chapter XXII chapter XXIII, and in this
chapter, and no person shall permit any such work to be executed except by a licensed plumber:
Provided that if, in the opinion of the Chief Municipal Officer, the work is of a trivial nature, he may grant permission in
writing for the execution of such work by a person other than a licensed plumber.
Page 84/183
----- PAGE 85 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
(3)
The Municipality shall, by Regulations, provide for-
(a)
the terms and conditions of engagement of such licensed plumbers,
(b)
their duties and responsibilities, and guidelines for their functions,
(c)
the charges to be paid to them for different types of works
(c)
the hearing and disposal of complaints made by the owners or occupiers of any premises with regard to the work, and
(e)
In case of contravention of any such regulations by any such plumber, the suspension or cancellation of such licence,
whether he is prosecuted under this Act or not.
214.
Power of access to waterworks and drainage sewerage installation.
(1)
The Chief Municipal Officer, or any other agency authorized by him in this behalf, or any person appointed by the State
Government in this behalf, may, for the purpose of inspecting or repairing or executing any work in, upon, or in
connection with, any waterworks at all reasonable times,-
(a)
enter upon, and pass through, any land within or outside the municipal area, adjacent to, or in the vicinity of, such
waterworks, in whomsoever such land may vest, and
(b)
convey into and through any such land all necessary materials, tools and implements.
(2)
In the exercise of any power conferred by this Section, as little damage as possible may be done, and compensation for
any damage which may be done in the exercise of any such power shall be paid by the Chief Municipal Officer, or any
other agency authorized by him in this behalf, or, if the person so appointed by the State Government has caused the
damage, by the State Government.
215.
Prohibition of certain acts.
(1)
No person shall-
(a)
willfully obstruct any person acting under the authority of the Chief Municipal Officer in setting out the lines of any works
or pull up or remove any pillar, post or shaft fixed in the ground for the purpose of setting out lines of such works, or
deface or destroy any works made for such purpose, or
(b)
wilfully or negligently break, damage, turn on, open, close, shut off, or otherwise interfere with, any lock, cock, valve,
pipe, meter or other work or apparatus belonging to the Municipality, or
(c)
unlawfully obstruct the flow of, or flush, draw off, or divert, to take water from, any waterworks belonging to the
Municipality or any watercourse by which any such waterworks is supplied, or
(d)
unlawfully obstruct the flow of, or flush, draw off, or divert, or take, sewage work belonging to the Municipality or break or
damage any electrical transmission line maintained by the Municipality, or
(e)
throw any material including plastic bags and containers or waste of dairies, piggeries and poultry farms into any
municipal drain or sewer, or
(f)
obstruct any officer or other employee of the Municipality in the discharge of his duties under chapter XXII, chapter XXIII
Page 85/183
----- PAGE 86 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
and under this chapter or refuse, or wilfully neglect, to furnish him with the means necessary for the making of any entry,
inspection, examination or inquiry thereunder in relation to any water or sewage work, or
(g)
bathe in, at, or upon, any waterworks, or wash or throw or cause to enter therein any animal, or throw any rubbish, dirt
or filth into any waterworks or wash or clean therein any cloth, wool or leather or the skin of any animal, or cause the
water of any sink or drain or any steam-engine or boiler or any polluted water to turn, or to be brought, into any
waterworks, or do any other act, whereby the water in any waterworks is fouled or is likely to be fouled.
(2)
Nothing in clause (b) of sub-section (1) shall apply to a consumer closing the stopcock fixed on the service pipe
supplying water to his premises so long as he has obtained the consent of any other consumer whose supply will be
affected thereby.
216.
Sewerage charge and sewerage cess.
(1)
The Municipality shall levy sewerage charge on the owners of premises for connection of such premises to sewerage
mains, such amount being not less than one-half of the amount chargeable for water-supply under sub-section (2) of
Section 171 or sub-section (2) of Section 172, as the case may be, as may be determined by Regulations from time to
time.
(2)
Where the owner of any premises in a locality where sewer is laid by the Municipality has not taken connection from the
sewerage mains, he shall be liable to pay a sewerage cess of such amount, not being more than one-half of the amount
chargeable as sewerage charge under sub-section (1), as may be determined by Regulations from time to time.
(3)
Where the owner fails to pay the sewerage charge or sewerage cess, such sewerage charge or sewerage cess, as the
case may be, shall be realized from the occupier, and the occupier shall be entitled to recover the amount from the
owner.
(4)
The connection of premises to sewerage mains shall be provided within a period of thirty days from the date of receipt of
an application in this behalf from the owner of the premises.
(5)
The charges received by the Municipality from the owner or the occupier for connecting the premises to sewerage mains
shall be spent only for the works relating to the sewerage system.
217.
Entrustment of operation and maintenance of sewerage works and billing and collection of sewerage charges.
- The Chief Municipal Officer may, with the prior approval of the Empowered Standing Committee, entrust the work of
operation and maintenance of sewerage works in the municipal area and the work of billing and collection of sewerage
charge or sewerage cess to any agency under any law for the time being in force or any private agency.
218.
Power of State Government to exercise control over imperfect, inefficient or unsuitable waterworks, drainage works or
sewerage works.
(1)
If, at any time, it appears to the State Government that any waterworks, or drainage works, or sewerage works executed
by, or vested in, the Municipality, are maintained, or worked, or run in an imperfect, inefficient or unsuitable manner, the
State Government may, by an order, in writing, direct the Municipality to show cause within the period specified in the
order why the waterworks, the drainage works or the sewerage works, as the case may be, with all plants, fittings and
appurtenances thereof should not be handed over to the control and management of any person or any agency
belonging to the State Government or any authority under any law for the time being in force, as may be specified in the
order.
(2)
If no cause is shown to the satisfaction of the State Government, within the period specified in the order referred to in
sub-section (1), or the cause shown appears to be untenable, the State Government may, by order, in writing, direct that
Page 86/183
----- PAGE 87 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
the waterworks, the drainage works or the sewerage works, as the case may be, with all plants, fittings and
appurtenances thereof shall be handed over, for such period as it may fix, to the control and management of such
persons, or agency, or authority, and on such terms and conditions, as the State Government may determine.
(3)
During the period fixed under sub-section (2), the complete control and management of such waterworks, drainage
works or sewerage works, as the case may be, shall be vested in the person, or the agency, or the authority so
appointed who shall engage such establishment for the purpose of maintaining and working of such waterworks,
drainage works or sewerage works, as the case may be, as the State Government may from time to time determine; and
such establishment may include the employees of the Municipality who were employed, or have been employed, in the
maintenance or working of such waterworks, drainage works or sewerage works.
(4)
The cost of such establishment, including costs of all materials, implements and stores, shall be paid from the Municipal
Fund within such period as may be fixed by the State Government.
219.
Municipal Water-supply, drainage and Sewerage Code.
(1)
The Municipality shall prepare and maintain a Code to be called the Municipal Water-supply, Drainage and Sewerage
Code which shall include such Regulations as may be made from time to time relating to the construction, maintenance,
repair and alteration of waterworks, water-supply mains, supply-pipes, drains, sewers, privies and urinals, cesspools,
and appurtenances thereof and other matters under chapter XXII or Chapter XXIII or this chapter.
(2)
Such Regulations shall provide for inspection of premises by the Chief Municipal Officer, or any other officer, or any
other agency, authorized by him in this behalf, as the case may be, to ascertain compliance with the provisions of this
Act and the Rules and the Regulations made thereunder.
Chapter XXV
Solid Wastes
A. Functions in Relation to Solid Wastes Management
220.
Duty of Municipality in respect of solid wastes management and handling.
- Subject to the provisions of Section 10, the Municipality shall, within the municipal area, be responsible for
implementation of the Rules made by the Central Government in exercise of the powers conferred by the Environment
(Protection) Act, 1986, to regulate the management and handling of municipal solid wastes and for development of any
infrastructure for collection, storage, transportation, processing and disposal of such solid wastes.
221.
Entrustment of management and handling of solid wastes and billing and collection of charge.
- Notwithstanding anything contained elsewhere in this Act, for the of purposes of management and handling of
municipal solid wastes and for development of infrastructure, if any, for collection, storage, transportation, processing
and disposal of such solid wastes, a charge shall be levied, and payment thereof shall be made, at such rate as the
Municipality may fix from time to time:
Provided that the charge as aforesaid shall, as far as practicable, be such as shall cover the costs on account of
management and handling of municipal solid wastes and development of infrastructure, if any, for collection, storage,
transportation, processing and disposal thereof and also the costs of debt-servicing, depreciation of plant and
machinery, and other charges, if any:
Provided further that the Chief Municipal Officer may, with the prior approval of the Empowered Standing Committee,
entrust development of infrastructure for collection, storage, transportation, processing and disposal of solid wastes and
the work of management and handling of municipal solid wastes and of billing and collection of the charges as aforesaid
to any agency under any law for the time being in force or to any other agency.
222.
Functions of Municipality.
- Subject to the provisions of Section 10, the Municipality shall either on its own or through any other agency authorized
by it in this behalf,-
Page 87/183
----- PAGE 88 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
(a)
organize collection of municipal solid wastes through any of the methods, like community bin collection (central bin),
house-to-house collection, and collection on regular pre-informed times and schedules,
(b)
devise collection of wastes from slums and squatter areas or other localities including hotels, restaurants, office
complexes and commercial areas,
(c)
remove at regular intervals all solid wastes so collected under clause (a) and clause (b) for disposal on daily basis, and
(d)
arrange for making use of biodegradable wastes from slaughterhouses, meat and fish markets, and fruits and vegetable
markets in an environmentally acceptable manner.
223.
Solid wastes to be property of Municipality.
- All solid wastes deposited in public receptacles, depots and places provided or appointed under Section 224 and all
solid wastes collected by the municipal employees or contractors or any other agency authorized in this behalf shall be
the property of the Municipality.
224.
Appointment of places for disposal and final disposal of solid waste.
- The Municipality may, either on its own or through any other agency, cause the solid wastes to be disposed of at such
place or places within or outside the municipal area, and in such manner, as it considers suitable:
Provided that no place which has not been used before the commencement of this Act for the purpose specified in this
Section, shall be so used, except-
(i)
in conformity with the provisions of any State law relating to development planning and land use control or any other law
relating thereto for the time being in force, or
(ii)
in the absence of any such law, with the approval of the State Government:
Provided further that the solid wastes shall not be finally disposed of in any manner which the State Government may
think fit to disallow.
B. Collection and Removal of Solid Wastes
225.
Duty of owners and occupiers of premises to store solid wastes at the source of generation.
- It shall be the duty of the owners and the occupiers of all lands and building in the municipal area. -
(a)
to have the premises swept and cleaned on a regular basis,
(b)
to provide for separate receptacles or disposal bags for the storage of
(i)
organic and bio-degradable wastes,
(ii)
recyclable or non-bio-gradable wastes, and
(iii)
domestic hazardous wastes, so as to ensure that these different types of wastes do not get mixed,
(c)
to keep such receptacles in good condition and order, and
(d)
to cause all such wastes, including rubbish, offensive matter, filth, trade refuse, carcasses of dead animals,
excrementitiously matters, bio-medical wastes and other polluted and obnoxious matters to be collected from their
respective premises and to be deposited in community bins or receptacles at such times and in such places as the Chief
Municipal Officer may, by notice, specify.
226.
Page 88/183
----- PAGE 89 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
Duty of Cooperative Housing Society, Apartment Owners' Association, etc.
- It shall be the duty of the managements of Co-operative Housing Societies, Apartment Owners' Associations,
residential and non-residential building complexes, educational buildings, institutional buildings, assembly buildings,
business buildings, mercantile buildings, industrial buildings, storage buildings, and hazardous buildings to provide at
their premises community bins or disposal bags of appropriate size as may be specified by the Municipality for
temporary storage of wastes (other than recyclable wastes), hazardous wastes, and bio-medical wastes for their
subsequent collection and removal by the Municipality:
Provided that a separate community bin shall be provided for the storage of recyclable wastes where door to door
collection is not made.
227.
Prohibitions.
- No person and no owner or occupier of any land or building shall-
(a)
litter or deposit at any public place any solid waste,
(b)
deposit building rubbish in or along any public street, public place or open land,
(c)
allow any filthy matter to flow on public places, or
(d)
deposit or otherwise dispose of the carcass or any part of any dead animal at a place not provided or appointed for such
purpose.
228.
Punishment for littering on streets and depositing or throwing any solid waste.
(1)
Whoever litters on any street or public place or deposits or throws or causes or permits to be deposited or thrown any
solid waste or building rubbish at any place in contravention of the provisions of this Act, or permits the flow of any filthy
matter from his premises, solid waste shall be punished on the spot with a fine, being not less than one hundred rupees,
as may be determined by Regulations from time to time.
(2)
Such spot fines may be collected by officers, not below the rank of a Sanitary Inspector, duly authorized by the
Municipality in this behalf.
229.
Bio-medical wastes.
- It shall be the duty of the Municipality, either on its own or through any other agency authorized by it in this behalf, to
implement the provisions of the Rules made by the Central Government and handling of biomedical wastes to the extent
such Rules apply to the Municipality.
230.
Hazardous wastes.
- It shall be the duty of the Municipality, either on its own or through any other agency authorized by it in this behalf, to
implement the provisions of the Rules made by the Central Government in exercise of the powers conferred by the
Environment (Protection) Act, 1986, to regulate the management and handling of hazardous wastes to the extent such
Rules apply to the Municipality.
Chapter XXVI
Communication Systems A. Public Streets
231.
Surface transport system and accessories.
- For the purposes of this Act,-
(a)
the surface transport system shall include streets, roads, footpaths, pedestrian pathways, parking areas, transportation
terminals, both for passengers and goods, bridges, sub-ways, over-bridges, ferries and inland water transport systems,
and
Page 89/183
----- PAGE 90 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
(b)
the transport system accessories shall include traffic engineering schemes, street furniture, street lighting, parking lots
and bus stops,
232.
Vesting of public streets in Municipality.
(1)
Subject to the provisions of chapter XXI, all public streets and parking areas of any municipal area including the soil,
sub-soil, stones, other materials, side-drains, footpaths, pavements, subways and over-bridges and all erections,
implements and trees and other things provided therein, shall be vested in the Municipality:
Provided that no public street in the municipal area, which immediately before the commencement of this Act vested in
the State Government or in any authority under any law for the time being in force, shall unless so directed by the
authority competent to take a decision in this behalf, be vested in the Municipality by virtue of this sub-section.
(2)
The State Government may, subject to such terms and conditions as it may determine, by notification-
(a)
transfer to any Municipality any public street or parking area belonging to it, or
(b)
take over from any Municipality any public street or parking area, or
(c)
transfer such public street or parking area, so taken over, to any authority under any law for the time being in force, or
any other agency, for a limited period for the purpose of proper maintenance and development of such public street or
parking area by such Municipality or the State Government or such authority or agency, as the case may be.
(3)
The Chief Municipal Officer shall maintain a register, in such Form, and in such manner, as may be specified by
regulations, and such register shall separately include a list of all public streets vested in the Municipality or in such
authority or agency.
(4)
The Municipality may publish, in such Form, and in such manner, as may be provided by Regulations the contents of
such register for sale to the public. Government land. Khagaria Municipality v. State of Bihar, 2008(1) BLJ 148 (PHC) :
2008(2) PLJR 375.
233.
Functions of Municipality in respect of public streets etc.
(1)
Subject to the provisions of Section 10, the Municipality or any other agency, as the case may be, shall cause all public
streets, parking areas, squares, sub-ways or over-bridges vested in it to be developed, maintained, controlled and
regulated in accordance with the provisions of this Act and the Regulations made thereunder.
(2)
The Municipality or any other agency, as the case may be, shall from time to time, cause all public streets vested in it to
be levelled, metalled, paved, channelled, altered or repaired, and may widen, extend or otherwise improve any such
street or cause the soil thereof to be raised, lowered or altered or may place and repair fences and guard rails thereon
for the safety of pedestrians.
234.
Power to make new public street etc.
- Subject to the provisions of Section 10, the Municipality or any other agency, as the case may be, may, at any time. -
(a)
layout and make new public streets, or
(b)
construct bridges or sub-ways, or
(c)
turn or divert any existing public street, or
(d)
Page 90/183
----- PAGE 91 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
lay down and determine the position and direction of a street or streets in any part of the municipal area notwithstanding
that no proposal for the erection of any building in its vicinity has been received, or
(e)
declare any street, made and duly constructed under any scheme or any development or improvement scheme in
pursuance of the provisions of any law for the time being in force or by any authority under any other law for the time
being in force, to be a public street, or
(f)
declare any private street to be a public street.
235.
Minimum width of new public street.
- No new public street made, or declared as such, under this Chapter, shall be less than ten meters in width including
the footpath: Provided that such width may be reduced by the Municipality in the case of class 'C' municipal area or a
transitional area, for reasons to be recorded in writing, but the width shall in no case be less than six meters.
236.
Acquisition of lands and buildings for public streets, public parking places and transportation terminals.
(1)
The Municipality may, subject to the other provisions of this Act, require to be acquired-
(a)
any land together with structure including building, if any, standing thereon for the purpose of opening, widening,
extending or otherwise improving any public street, parking or transportation terminal, square, park or garden or of
making a new one or for enforcing the regular line of street,
(b)
in relation to any land or any structure including building as aforesaid, such land or structure including building as the
Municipality may think expedient, outside the regular line or projected regular line of the public street as aforesaid, and
(c)
any land for the purpose of laying out, or making, a public parking place.
(2)
Where any land or structure including building is required to be acquired under sub-section (1) and the Municipality is
satisfied that the remaining portion of the land will not be suitable or fit for any beneficial use to the owner, it shall, at the
request of the owner, proceed for the acquisition, in addition, of such remaining portion of the land which shall, on
acquisition, vest in the Municipality.
(3)
Where any land or structure including building is required to be acquired under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2), the
procedure for such acquisition as provided in this Act shall apply.
237.
Permanent closure of public street.
(1)
The Municipality may permanently close the whole or any part of a public street in the public interest or for the purpose
of carrying out the provisions of this Act:
Provided that before closing such public street, the Municipality shall, by notice published in such manner as may be
provided by Regulations, give an opportunity to the residents likely to be affected by such closure to make suggestions
or objections, with respect to such closure, within one month from the date of publication of the said notice, and shall
consider all such suggestions, or objections.
(2)
Whenever any public street or a part thereof is permanently closed under sub-section (1), the site of such street or any
portion thereof may be disposed of as land vested in the Municipality.
238.
Temporary closure of public street.
- The Chief Municipal Officer may temporarily close the whole or any part of a public street to permit development and
maintenance work, and may authorize such closure for other purposes for any period not exceeding fifteen days.
239.
Page 91/183
----- PAGE 92 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
Closure of Public Street for parking purposes and levy of parking fee.
(1)
The Municipality may close any portion of a public street and declare it as a parking area.
(2)
Parking fees at different rates for different types of vehicles, in different areas, for different times of the day, and for
different durations may be levied at such rates as may be determined by the Municipality by Regulations from time to
time.
240.
Right of owners to require streets to be declared public.
(1)
If any private street has been levelled, paved, metalled, flagged, channelled, sewered, drained, conserved, and lighted
to the satisfaction of the Chief Municipal Officer, he may, or on the requisition of a majority of the owners of such private
street, shall, declare such street to be a public street and, thereupon, the street shall vest in the Municipality.
(2)
The Chief Municipal Officer may, at any time, by a notice fixed up in any street or part thereof, not maintained by the
Municipality, but which has already been levelled, paved, metalled, flagged, channelled, drained, sewered, conserved
and lighted to his satisfaction, given intimation of his intention to declare such street or part thereof to be a public street,
and unless within thirty days of such notice, the owner or anyone of the several owners of such street or such part of a
street, lodges objection thereto at the office of the Municipality, the Chief Municipal Officer may, by notice, in writing, put
up in such street or part thereof, declare such street or part thereof, as the case may be, to be a public street vested in
the Municipality.
B. Traffic Engineering Schemes, Street Furniture, Parking Lots and Bus Stops
241.
Traffic engineering schemes.
- The Municipality may, either on its own or through any other agency authorized by it in this behalf, as and when
necessary, having regard to abutting land uses and traffic flow patterns, implement traffic engineering schemes to
ensure public safety, conveniences and expeditious movement of traffic including pedestrian traffic.
242.
Street furniture and bus stops.
- Subject to the provisions of Section 10, the Municipality shall, either on its own or through any other agency authorized
by it in this behalf, from time to time, cause various items of street furniture including fences, guard-rails, traffic lights,
traffic signs, street markings, median strips, bus stops and any other item to be installed or done, and shall cause them
to be maintained so as to ensure public safety and convenience and expeditious movement of traffic including
pedestrian traffic.
C. Street Lighting
243.
Measures for lighting.
(1)
The Chief Municipal Officer shall, either on his own or through any other agency,-
(a)
take measures for lighting, in a suitable manner, such public streets and public places as may be specified by him,
(b)
procure, erect and maintain such number of lamps, lamp-posts and other appurtenances as may be necessary for the
purpose of lighting, and
(c)
cause such lamps to be lighted by appropriate means.
(2)
The Chief Municipal Officer or any other agency may attach to the outside of any building brackets for lamps in such
manner as may not cause any injury or inconvenience thereto.
Chapter XXVII
Markets, Commercial Infrastructure and Slaughter Houses
Page 92/183
----- PAGE 93 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
244.
Commercial Infrastructure.
- Subject to the provisions of chapter XXI, the Municipality may, either on its own or through any other agency
authorised by it in this behalf implement any scheme for construction, operation, maintenance and management of
commercial infrastructure including district centres, neighbourhood shopping centres, shopping malls and office
complexes, and may rent out, lease or dispose by outright sale, such commercial infrastructure or any part thereof.
245.
Provision of municipal markets and slaughter houses.
(1)
The Chief Municipal Officer may, either on his own or through any other agency, provide and maintain in the municipal
area such-number of municipal markets, slaughterhouses or stockyards, as houses he thinks fit, together with stalls,
shops, sheds, pans and other buildings and conveniences for the use of persons carrying on trade or business and may
provide and maintain in any such markets, buildings or other places, machines, weights, scales and measures for the
weighment or measurement of goods sold thereon.
(2)
Subject to such directions as the Municipality may give in this behalf, the Chief Municipal Officer or any other agency, as
the case may be, may, after giving a notice, close any municipal market or slaughterhouse or stockyard or any portion
thereof on and from the date specified in the notice, and the premises occupied for any municipal market,
slaughterhouse or stockyard or any potion thereof so closed may be disposed of as the property of the Municipality.
246.
Use of municipal markets.
(1)
No person shall, without the general or special permission, in writing, of the Chief Municipal Officer, sell, or expose for
sale, any animal or article in any municipal market within the municipal area.
(2)
Any person contravening the provisions of sub-section (1) and any animal or article exposed for sale by such person
may, by or under the order of the Chief Municipal Officer, be summarily removed from the market by a police-officer or
any officer or other employee of the Municipality authorised by the Chief Municipal Officer in this behalf.
247.
Levy of stallage, rent and fee.
- Subject to such Regulations as may be made from time to time, the Chief Municipal Officer, either on his own or
through any other agency, as the case may be, may charge stallage, rent or fee for the occupation or use of facilities in
a municipal market or a municipal slaughterhouse.
Part VI ? Urban Environmental Management, Community Health and Public Safety
Chapter XXVIII
Local Agenda for Urban Environmental Management
248.
Duties of the Municipality.
(1)
Subject to the provisions of Section 10, and having regard to the linkages between Urban economy, infrastructure,
productivity, poverty and environmental health in the municipal area, the Municipality shall take adequate measures for-
(a)
management of urban environment,
(b)
measuring quality of living and working environment,
(c)
monitoring of pollution levels, and
(d)
undertaking health risk assessment.
(2)
For carrying out the purposes of sub-section (1), the Municipality shall involve such professional agencies and
Page 93/183
----- PAGE 94 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
community based organizations, either in the public sector or in the private sector, as may be necessary, to-
(a)
carry out studies on vulnerability and risk assessment,
(b)
enhance the capability of concerned, municipal or other agencies through research and training activities for better
management of environment,
(c)
prepare environmental management strategy and action plan, and establish adequate institutional framework for its
implementation, and
(d)
provide and manage environmental infrastructure services.
249.
Functions in relation to urban environmental management and submission of report on environmental status of
municipal area.
(1)
Subject to the provisions of Section 10 and without prejudice to the generality of the provisions of Section 277, the
Municipality shall, either by itself or through any other agency, undertake functions relating to the following matters:-
(a)
supply of safe water,
(b)
low cost sanitation,
(c)
environmentally sound solid waste management,
(d)
toxic waste collection and disposal,
(e)
waste recycling and recovery,
(f)
preservation of wetlands,
(g)
control of air pollution,
(h)
control of sound pollution,
(i)
control of cattle and other animal in the municipal area,
(j)
area improvement and resettlement,
(k)
promotion of urban agriculture and urban forestry,
(l)
development of parks, gardens and open spaces,
(m)
promotion of community awareness on environmental education, and (n) such other matters as the Municipality may
consider necessary.
(2)
The Chief Municipal Officer shall prepare and submit a report on the environmental status of the municipal area at the
time of submission of the budget estimates.
Chapter XXIX
Environmental sanitation and Community Health A. Duties and General Powers
250.
Duties of the Municipality for environmental sanitation.
Page 94/183
----- PAGE 95 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
- It shall be the duty of the Municipality or any other agency authorized by it on this behalf to take adequate measures for
each of the following matters, namely:-
(a)
inspection, supervision, regulation, and control of premises to ensure proper environmental sanitation,
(b)
regulation of public bathing and washing,
(c)
provision and maintenance of public conveniences,
(d)
licensing of animals and control of stray animals,
(e)
licensing of butchers and slaughterhouses, and
(f)
control of nuisances.
251.
Powers of Chief Municipal Officer.
- Subject to such Regulations as may be made in this behalf, the Chief Municipal Officer may, either on his own or
through any other agency officer authorized by him in this behalf,-
(a)
cause any building or other premises to be inspected for the purpose of ascertaining the sanitary condition thereof,
(b)
require the owner or the occupier of any land or building or any part thereof to cleanse it, if it appears necessary so to do
for reasons of sanitation,
(c)
issue such order as he deems necessary for the improvement of any insanitary huts and sheds and untenanted
premises which are likely to cause risk of disease to the inmates thereof or to the inhabitants of the neighbourhood or
are, for any reason, likely to endanger community health or safety,
(d)
by notice, prohibit the owner or the occupier from the use of any building, or any room in a building, which appears to
him to be unfit for human habitation, as dwelling, or
(e)
direct the filling up of any well, pool, ditch, tank, pond, pit or undrained ground, cistern, or reservoir of any waste or
stagnant water, which appears to him to be, or likely to become, injurious to health or offensive to the neighbourhood.
252.
Power to regulate excavations.
(1)
The Chief Municipal Officer may, by a general order, or by a special order affecting such portion of the municipal area as
may be specified therein, prohibit-
(a)
the making of excavation for the purpose of taking earth therefrom or strong rubbish or offensive matter therein, or
(b)
the digging of cesspool, tanks, ponds, wells or pits, without his special permission.
(2)
No person shall make any excavation referred to in clause (a), or dig any cesspool, tank, pond, well or pit referred to in
clause (b), of sub-section (1) in contravention of any such order.
(3)
If any such excavation is made, or any such cesspool, tank, pond, well or pit is dug in contravention of the order under
sub-section (1), the Chief Municipal Officer may, by notice, in writing, require the owner or the occupier of the land, on
which such excavation is made or such cesspool, tank, pond, well or pit is dug, to fill it up with earth or other material
approved by him.
253.
Page 95/183
----- PAGE 96 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
Power to require trees, hedges, etc., to be trimmed.
(1)
The Chief Municipal Officer may, if he thinks fit, by notice, in writing, require the owner or the occupier of any land in the
municipal area on which trees, shrubs or hedges are growing to keep such trees, shrubs or hedges in a trim condition,
and remove any such tree, shrub or hedge, if it obstructs traffic on any street or poses a danger to public safety or
overhangs any street causing inconvenience or danger to the passers-by.
(2)
If it appears to the Chief Municipal Officer that immediate action is necessary for public safety, he may, without notice,
because such trees, shrub or hedge to be removed from the land as aforesaid and the expenses thereof shall be paid by
the owner or the occupier of such land.
B. Regulation of Public Bathing, Washing, etc.
254.
Regulation of public bathing, washing etc.
- The Chief Municipal Officer may, by order-
(a)
regulate the use by the public of any river or other public place, whether vested in the Municipality or not, for bathing or
washing,
(b)
prohibit the use by the public of any lake, tank, reservoir, fountain, cistern, duct, stand-pipe, stream or well or any part of
any river, whether vested in the Municipality or not, for bathing or washing,
(c)
prohibit steeping in any tank, reservoir, stream, well or ditch of any animal, vegetable or mineral matter likely to render
the water thereof offensive or dangerous to health,
(d)
prohibit bathing in any lake, tank, reservoir, fountain, cistern, duct, stand-pipe, stream or well by a person suffering from
any contagious or infectious disease,
(e)
prohibit any person engaged in any trade or manufacture from causing to flow into any lake, tank, reservoir, cistern, well
duct or other places for storage of water, whether vested in the Municipality or not, or drain or pipe communicating
therewith, any washing or other substance produced in the course of any such trade or manufacture, or wilfully do any
act connected with any such trade or manufacture whereby such water is likely to be fouled or corrupted, or
(f)
prohibit, by notice, the washing of clothes by washermen in pursuance of their calling, except at such places as may be
licensed for this purpose.
C. Public Conveniences
255.
Public latrines and urinals.
(1)
The Municipality shall, by itself or through any other agency, provide and maintain proper and convenient places a
sufficient number of public latrines and urinals for use by the public.
(2)
Such public latrines and urinals may be so constructed as to provide separate compartments for each sex.
D. General Provisions
256.
Prohibition of nuisances.
(1)
No person shall-
(a)
commit any nuisance in any public street or public place, or
(b)
unauthorized affix upon any building, monument, post, wall, fence, tree or other thing, any bill, notice or other document,
Page 96/183
----- PAGE 97 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
or
(c)
unauthorized deface, or write upon, or otherwise mark, any building, monument, post, wall, fence, tree or other thing, or
(d)
carry rubbish, filth or other polluted and obnoxious matter along any route in contravention of any prohibition made in
this behalf by the Chief Municipal Officer by notice, or
(e)
bury or cremate or otherwise dispose of any corpse at a place not licensed for the purpose, or
(f)
disturb public peace or order in violation of sound pollution control order, if any, or
(g)
cause pollution of air in violation of air pollution control order, if any, or
(h)
cause obstruction to the movement of vehicular or pedestrian traffic without permission from the Competent Authority.
(2)
Where the Chief Municipal Officer is of the opinion that there is a nuisance on any land or building, he may, by notice, in
writing, require the person by whose act, default or sufferance the nuisance arises or continues or all of the owners,
lessees or occupiers of such land or building to remove or abate the nuisance by taking such measures, in such
manner, and within such period, as may be specified in the notice.
(3)
Where the Chief Municipal Officer is of the opinion that immediate, removal of any nuisance continuing on any land or
building in contravention of the provisions of this Act is necessary, he may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, cause
such nuisance to be removed forthwith.
257.
Control of pollution.
- Subject to the provisions of any law relating to air, water or noise pollution, for the time being in force and in
accordance with any notification by the State Government in that behalf, the Municipality may function as a competent
authority for the enforcement of such law,
258.
Power to require wells, tanks, etc., to be rendered safe.
- Wherein any municipal area, any well, tank, reservoir, pool, depression or excavation, or any bank or tree is, in the
opinion of the Chief Municipal Officer, in a ruinous state for want of sufficient repairs, protection or enclosure and is a
nuisance or is dangerous to passers by the Chief Municipal Officer may, by notice, in writing, require the owner or the
part owner or any other person claiming to be the owner or the part-owner thereof, or failing any of them, the occupier
thereof, to repair, protect or enclose it in such manner as he thinks necessary, and, if in the opinion of the Chief
Municipal Officer, the danger is imminent, he shall forthwith take such steps as he thinks necessary to avert such
danger.
259.
Quarrying, blasting, cutting timber or building operation.
- No person shall quarry, blast, cut timber, or carry on building operations in such manner as to cause, or is likely to
cause, danger to persons passing by, or dwelling or working, the neighbourhood.
260.
Power to stop improper use of land or building.
- If, within any municipal area, any land or building, by reason of its, being abandoned or unoccupied-
(a)
is in filthy or unwholesome state, or
(b)
has become a resort of-
(i)
idle and disorderly persons, or
(ii)
Page 97/183
----- PAGE 98 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
persons who have no ostensible means of subsistence or cannot give a satisfactory account of themselves, or
(c)
is used for gambling or immoral purposes, or
(d)
is likely to occasion a nuisance, the Chief Municipal Officer may, after due enquiry, by notice, in writing, require the
owner or the part owner or any person claiming to be the owner or the part owner of such land or building, or the lessee,
or any person claiming to be the lessee, thereof to-
(i)
secure, enclose, cleanse or clear such land or building, or
(ii)
stop use of such land or building for gambling or immoral purposes, or
(iii)
abate the nuisance, within such time as may be specified in the notice, and shall affix a copy of such notice on the door
of the building or on some conspicuous part of the land, as the case may be.
261.
Polluters to pay.
- The Municipality may, by regulations, provide for recovery of charges and imposition of penalty on those persons who
are directly responsible for causing pollution of any kind referred to in this Chapter.
Chapter XXX
Restraint of Infection
262.
Municipality to prevent and check dangerous diseases.
(1)
It shall be the duty of the Municipality to take such measures as are necessary for preventing, or checking the spread of,
any dangerous disease in the municipal area or of any epidemic disease among any animals therein.
(2)
Any person, whether as a medical practitioner or otherwise, being in charge of, or in attendance upon, any other person
whom he knows or has reason to believe to be suffering from a dangerous disease, or being the owner, lessee, or
occupier of any building in which he knows that any such person is so suffering, shall forthwith give information
respecting the existence of such disease to the Chief Municipal Officer.
263.
Power of Chief Municipal Officer to inspect any place and take measures to prevent spread of dangerous disease.
(1)
The Chief Municipal Officer may, at any time, by day or by night, and with or without notice, inspect any place in which
any dangerous disease is reported or suspected to exist, and take such measures as he may think fit to prevent the
spread of such disease beyond such place, and shall forthwith send information thereof to the State Government, the
District Magistrate and the senior most functionary of the Health Department of the State Government in the District.
(2)
When any person suffering from any dangerous disease is found to be- (a) without proper lodging or accommodation, or
(b)
living in a room or house which he neither owns nor pays rent for, nor occupies as a guest or relative of the person who
owns, or pays rent for such room or house, or
(c)
living in a sarai, hotel, boarding-house, or hostel, or
(d)
lodged in premises occupied by members of two or more families, the Chief Municipal Officer or any person authorized
by him in this behalf may, on the advice of any Medical Officer, remove the patient to any hospital or place at which
persons suffering from such disease are received for medical treatment and may do anything necessary for such
removal.
264.
Power of Chief Municipal Officer to cleanse, disinfect, destroy or control places of infection.
Page 98/183
----- PAGE 99 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
(1)
The Chief Municipal Officer may cleanse, or disinfect, or cause destruction of, any building, hut or shed, water-source or
lodging and eating house, if, in his opinion, such cleansing, disinfection or destruction would tend to prevent or check the
spread of any dangerous disease, and, in case of emergency, he may cause such cleansing or disinfection to be done
by the employees of the Municipality at the cost of the owner or the occupier of such place, or, at the cost of the
Municipality, if, in his opinion, such owner or the occupier is unable to pay the cost owing to poverty.
(2)
Where the Chief Municipal Officer is satisfied that the destruction of any building, hut or shed, or clothing, or article is
immediately necessary for the purpose of preventing the spread of any dangerous disease, he may cause such building,
hut or shed, or clothing, or article to be destroyed:
Provided that compensation may be paid by the Chief Municipal Officer to any person who sustains substantial loss by
the destruction of such building, hut or shed, or clothing, or article.
(3)
The Chief Municipal Officer may, on being satisfied that it is in the public interest so to do, by order, in writing, direct that
any lodging house or any place in the municipal area where articles of food and drink are sold, or prepared, stored or
exposed for sale, being a lodging house or place in which a case of dangerous disease exist or has recently occurred
shall be closed for such period as may be specified in the order:
Provided that such lodging house or place may be declared to be open, if the Municipal Health Officer certifies that it has
been disinfected or is free from infection.
(4)
The Chief Municipal Officer or any person authorized by the Municipality may, at all reasonable times, enter into, and
inspect, any market, building, shop, stall or place, used for the sale of food or drink, as a slaughterhouse, or for the sale
of drugs, and inspect and examine any food, drink, animal or drug, which may be therein and, if any article of food or
drink, animal or drug therein, intended for the consumption of persons, appears to be unfit therefore, he may, by notice,
restrict the sale of such food, drink, animal or drug, in such manner, and for such period, as he may deem fit.
(5)
If the Chief Municipal Officer is of the opinion that the water in any well, tank, or other place in the municipal area is likely
to cause the spread of any disease, he may, by notice, in writing, prohibit the removal or use of such water for drinking,
and require the owner or the person having control of such well, tank, or other place to take such steps as may be
required by the notice to prevent the public from having access to, or from using, such water and may take such other
steps as he may consider expedient to prevent the outbreak or spread of such disease:
Provided that in the case of an emergency, the Chief Municipal Officer or any person authorized by him in this behalf
may, with or without notice and at any time, inspect and disinfect any well, tank or other place from which water is, or is
likely to be, taken for the purpose of preventing the spread of any dangerous disease.
265.
Special measures in case of outbreak of dangerous or epidemic diseases.
(1)
In the event of any municipal area or any part thereof being visited or threatened by an outbreak of any dangerous
disease among the inhabitants thereof or of any epidemic disease among any animals therein, the Chief Municipal
Officer may, if he think that the other provisions of this Act and the provisions of any other law for the time being in force
are insufficient for for the purpose of preventing the outbreak of such disease, with the previous approval of the
Municipality,-
(a)
take such special measures, and
(b)
by notice, give such directions to be observed by the public or by any class or Section of the public as he thinks
necessary to prevent the outbreak of such disease:
Provided that where, in the opinion of the Chief Municipal Officer, immediate action is necessary, he may take such
action without such approval and, if he does so, he shall forthwith report such action to the Municipality.
(2)
Any person, who commits a breach of any direction given in the notice under clause (b) of sub-section (1) shall be
Page 99/183
----- PAGE 100 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
deemed to have committed an offence under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code.
266.
Means for disinfection.
(1)
The Municipality may, in its discretion, or shall, when the State Government so directs,-
(a)
provide proper places within the municipal area with necessary attendants and apparatus for disinfection of
conveyances, clothings, beddings, or other articles which have been exposed to infection, and
(b)
cause conveyances, clothings, beddings, or other articles brought for disinfection, to be disinfected, either free of charge
or on payment of such charges as it may fix.
(2)
The Chief Municipal Officer may notify places at which such conveyances, clothings, beddings, or other articles, which
have been exposed to infection, shall be washed and if he does so, no person shall wash any such conveyances,
clothings, beddings, or other articles at any place, not so notified, without previous disinfection.
(3)
The Chief Municipal Officer may direct the destruction of any clothing, bedding, or other article likely to retain infection,
and may give such compensation as he thinks fit for any clothing, bedding or other article, so destroyed.
267.
Special conveyance for carrying infected persons.
(1)
Subject to such regulations as may be made in this behalf, the Chief Municipal Officer may, either on his own or through
any other agency, provide and maintain suitable conveyances for the free carriage of persons suffering from any
dangerous disease or dead bodies of persons who died of any such disease.
(2)
The Chief Municipal Officer may, either on his own or through any other agency, provide for disinfection of any public
conveyance, which has carried any person suffering from a dangerous disease, or the corpse of a person who died of
any such disease.
268.
Prohibitions.
- Subject to such Regulations as may be made in this behalf, the Chief Municipal Officer may prohibit-
(a)
the letting out of any infected building without being first disinfected,
(b)
the disposal of infected articles without disinfection,
(c)
the washing of any infected clothes by any washerman or laundry, and
(d)
the making and selling of food, or washing of clothes, by infected persons.
Chapter XXXI
Disposal of the Dead
269.
Acts prohibited in connection with disposal of dead.
(1)
No person shall-
(a)
retain a corpse on any premises without burning, burying or otherwise lawfully disposing it of, for so long a time after
death as to create a nuisance,
(b)
carry a corpse, or a part of a corpse, along any street without having or keeping such corpse or part of a corpse decently
covered or without taking such precautions to prevent risk of infection or injury to the community health as the Chief
Page 100/183
----- PAGE 101 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
Municipal Officer may, by notice, from time to time, think fit to require,
(c)
carry, except when no other route is available, a corpse or part of a corpse along any street on which the carrying of
copse is prohibited by notice issued by the Chief Municipal Officer in this behalf,
(d)
remove a corpse or part of a corpse, which has been kept or used for purpose of dissection, otherwise than in a closed
receptacle or vehicle,
(e)
place or leave, during its conveyance, a corpse or part of a corpse, on or near any street without urgent necessity,
(f)
bury, or cause to be buried, any corpse or part of a corpse in the grave or vault or otherwise in such manner as may
cause the surface of the coffin or, when no coffin is used, of the corpse or part of the corpse, to be at a depth of less
than two meters from the surface of the ground,
(g)
build, big, or cause to be built or dug, any grave or vault in any burial ground at a distance of less than one-half of a
metre from the margin of any other grave or vault,
(h)
build or dig, or cause to be built or dug, grave or vault in any burial ground in any line, not marked out for such purpose
by or under the order of the Chief Municipal Officer,
(i)
reopen for the interment of a corpse or of any part of a corpse a grave or vault already occupied, without the written
permission of the Chief Municipal Officer,
(j)
make, without the permission of the Chief Municipal Officer, any vault or grave or interment within any wall, or
underneath any passage, porch, portico, plinth or verandah, of any place of worship,
(k)
make, without the permission of the Chief Municipal Officer, any interment or otherwise dispose of any corpse in any
place which is closed under Section 356,
(l)
build, dig, or cause to be built or dug, any grave or vault, or, in any way, dispose of, or suffer or permit to be disposed of,
any corpse at any place, which is not permitted under this chapter, without the permission of the Chief Municipal Officer,
and (m) exhume without the permission of the Chief Municipal Officer, any body from any place for the disposal of the
dead except under the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, or any other law for the time being in force.
(2)
The Chief Municipal Officer may, in special cases, grant permission for any of the purposes referred to in clauses (j) to
(m) of sub-section (1), subject to such general or special order as the State Government may, from time to time, make in
this behalf.
(3)
Any contravention of the provisions of clauses (j) to (m) of sub-section (1) shall be deemed to be a cognizable offence
within the meaning of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973.
270.
Registration of places for disposal of the dead.
(1)
Subject to such Regulations as may be made in this behalf, every owner or person having the control of any place
already used for disposal of the dead, but which is not vested in, or owned by, the Municipality or any Board appointed
by the State Government for administration of such place, shall submit to the Chief Municipal Officer an application for
registration of such place, containing such particulars as may be specified by the Municipality, within a period of three
months from the date of commencement of this Act.
(2)
If the Chief Municipal Officer is satisfied with the application and the particulars under sub-section (1), he may register
such place on such terms and conditions as may be provided by Regulations.
Page 101/183
----- PAGE 102 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
(3)
The Chief Municipal Officer may, with the approval of the Empowered Standing Committee, provide suitable and
convenient place for the disposal of the dead within the municipal area, subject to the provisions of any State law
regulating such land use or, in the absence of any provisions of any State law in this behalf in the municipal area, with
the approval of the State Government.
(4)
No place which has not previously been lawfully used or registered for the disposal of the dead shall be opened for such
disposal except in conformity with the provisions of any State Law regulating such land use or, the absence of any
provisions of any State Law in this behalf in the municipal area, with the approval of State Government.
271.
Power to require closing of burning and burial grounds etc.
- Where the Chief Municipal Officer is of the opinion that any burning place or burial ground or place for the disposal of
the dead has become offensive or dangerous to the health of persons residing in the neighbourhood, or for any other
reasons to be recorded in writing, he may, with the previous approval of the Empowered Standing Committee, and by
notice, in writing, required the owner or the person in charge of such burning place or burial ground or place for the
disposal of the dead, to close such burning place or burial ground or place for the disposal of the dead, from such date
as may be specified in the notice.
272.
Disposal of dead animals.
(1)
Whenever any animal, which is under the charge of any person, dies, such person shall within twenty-four hours of such
death, either,-
(a)
convey the carcass to a place provided or appointed under this Act for the final disposal of carcasses of dead animals,
or
(b)
give notice of the death to the Chief Municipal Officer whereupon he shall cause the carcass to be disposed of.
(2)
In respect of the disposal of the carcass of a dead animal under clause (b) of sub-section (1), the Chief Municipal Officer
may charge such fee as may be determined by the Municipality by Regulations.
(3)
Where any dead animal does not belong to any person, the Chief Municipal Officer shall act immediately for causing the
carcass to be disposed of.
Chapter XXXII
Urban Forestry, Parks, Gardens, Trees and Playgrounds
273.
Municipality to implement schemes.
(1)
The Municipality shall take necessary steps for-
(a)
promotion of urban forestry,
(b)
creation of public parks and gardens, and planting of trees,
(c)
provision of parks and playgrounds for children and youth,
(d)
provision of street-side gardens,
(e)
encouragement of nurseries, and
(f)
organization of flower shows.
Page 102/183
----- PAGE 103 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
(2)
The Municipality may, from time to time, take steps to promote awareness about the national heritage of flora and fauna
among the school children and the youth.
(3)
The Municipality may, from time to time, take steps to promote harvesting of rain water in public parks, gardens and
other open spaces under its administrative control and may also undertake campaigns to promote public awareness for
conservation of rain water.
Part VII ? Regulatory Jurisdiction
Chapter XXXIII
Development Plans
274.
Representation in District Planning Committee or Metropolitan Planning Committee.
- Having regard to the provisions of Article 243ZD and Article 243ZE of the Constitution of India and of State law
enacted under these articles, a Municipality shall participate in the election of members of the District Planning
Committee or the Metropolitan Planning Committee, as the case may be, and such members shall actively represent the
interests of the Municipality in such Committees.
275.
Municipality to implement development plans.
(1)
Having regard to the draft development plan, as prepared by the District Planning Committee or the Metropolitan
Planning Committee, as the case may be, and as approved by the State Government, the Municipality shall implement
such components of such development plan as relates to its jurisdiction and carry out such functions as may be
assigned to it in this behalf.
(2)
Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provisions of this Section and subject to the provisions of Section 10,
the Municipality shall undertake-
(a)
preparation of plans for improvement under Chapter XXXV, and
(b)
plans for infrastructure development including water-supply, drainage and sewerage, solid waste management, roads,
and transport system accessories.
Chapter XXXIV
Improvement
276.
Removal of congested buildings.
(1)
If it appears to the Chief Municipal Officer that any block of buildings is in an unhealthy condition by reason of the
manner in which the buildings are crowded together or the narrowness, closeness, or faulty arrangement of streets or
the want of proper drainage and ventilation or the impracticability of cleansing the buildings or by reason of any other
cause to be specified in writing, he shall cause such block of buildings to be inspected by the Chief Municipal Health
Officer and the Chief Municipal Engineer, who shall consult the owners and the occupiers of such block of buildings and
the owners and the occupiers of other buildings affected by the unhealthy condition and shall, thereafter, make a report,
in writing, to him regarding the sanitary condition of such block of buildings.
(2)
If, upon receipt of the report under sub-section (1), the Chief Municipal Officer considers that the sanitary condition of
such block or building is likely to cause risk of disease to the inhabitants of the buildings or the neighbourhood or
otherwise to endanger the community health, he shall, with the approval of the Empowered Standing Committee, select
the buildings which, in his opinion, should wholly or in part be removed in order to abate the unhealthy condition of such
block of buildings, and may, thereupon, by notice, in writing, require the owners of such buildings to remove them within
such period as may be specified in the notice:
Provided that before issuing the notice, a reasonable opportunity shall be given to the owners to show cause, either in
Page 103/183
----- PAGE 104 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
writing or in person, why the buildings should not be removed:
Provided further that the Chief Municipal Officer shall, for the removal of any such building, which may have been
erected lawfully, pay compensation to the owner for any such building.
(3)
If the notice under sub-section (2) requiring any owner of a building to remove such building is not complied with, then,
after the expiration of the period specified in the notice, the Chief Municipal Officer may himself remove the building and
recover from the owner of the building the expenses of such removal as an arrear of tax under this Act.
277.
Power to require improvement of building unfit for human habitation.
(1)
If, upon information in his possession, the Chief Municipal Officer is satisfied that any building is in any respect unfit for
human habitation, he may, unless, in his opinion, the building is not capable of being rendered fit at a reasonable
expense, serve on the owner of the building a notice requiring him, within such period, not being less than thirty days, as
may be specified in the notice, to execute the works of improvement specified therein, and stating that in his opinion
such works will render the building fit for human habitation.
(2)
In addition to the notice served on the owner of the building under subsection (1), the Chief Municipal Officer may also
serve a copy of the notice on any other person having an interest in the building, whether as a lessee or as a mortgagee
or otherwise.
(3)
In determining whether a building can be rendered fit for human habitation at a reasonable expense, regard shall be had
to the estimated cost of the works necessary to render the building so fit and the estimated value which the building will
have on completion of the works.
(4)
If the notice under sub-section (1) requiring the owner of the building to execute the works of improvement is not
complied with, then, on the expiration of the period specified in the notice, the Chief Municipal Officer may himself do the
works required to be done by the notice and recover the expenses incurred in connection therewith as an arrear of tax
under this Act.
278.
Power to order demolition of building unfit for human habitation.
(1)
Where, upon information in his possession, the Chief Municipal Officer is satisfied that any building is unfit for human
habitation and is not capable at a reasonable expense of being rendered fit, he shall serve upon the owner of the
building and upon any other person having an interest in the building, whether as a lessee or as a mortgagee or
otherwise, a notice to show cause within such time as may be specified in the notice as to why an order of demolition of
the building should not be made.
(2)
If the owner of the building, or other person, upon whom a notice has been served under sub-section (1), appears in
pursuance thereof before the Chief Municipal Officer and gives an undertaking that he shall, within a period specified by
the Chief Municipal Officer, execute such work of improvement in relation to the building as will, in the opinion of the
Chief Municipal Officer, render the building fit for human habitation or that the building shall not be used for human
habitation until the Chief Municipal Officer, on being satisfied that it has been rendered fit for such habitation, cancels
the undertaking, the Chief Municipal Officer shall not make an order of demolition of the building.
(3)
If no such undertaking as is referred to in sub-section (2) is given, or if, in a case where any such undertaking has been
given, the works of improvement to which the undertaking relates are not carried out within the specified period or the
building is used in contravention of the undertaking, the Chief Municipal Officer shall forthwith make an order of
demolition of the building requiring that the building shall be vacated within a period to be specified in the order, not
being less than thirty days from the date of the order, and demolished within six weeks on the expiration of that period.
(4)
Where an order of demolition of a building under this Section has been made, the owner of the building or any other
Page 104/183
----- PAGE 105 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
person having an interest therein shall demolish such building within the period specified in the order, and if such
building is not demolished within that period, the Chief Municipal Officer shall demolish the building and shall sell the
materials thereof.
(5)
Any expenses incurred by the Chief Municipal Officer for carrying out the purposes of sub-section (4) which cannot be
met out of the proceeds of the sale of materials of the building, shall be recovered from the owner of the building or any
other person having an interest therein as an arrear of tax under this Act.
(6)
In determining, for the purposes of this Section and Section 335, whether a building is unfit for human habitation, regard
shall be had to its condition in respect of the matters, such as,-
(a)
repair,
(b)
stability,
(c)
freedom from damp,
(d)
natural light and air,
(e)
water-supply,
(f)
drainage and sanitary conveniences, and
(g)
facilities for storage, preparation and cooking of food and for the disposal of rubbish, filth and other polluted matter; and
the building shall be deemed to be unfit for human habitation only if it is so defective in one or more of the matters as
aforesaid that it is not reasonably suitable for occupation in that condition.
(7)
For the purposes of this Section and Section 335, "works of improvement", in relation to a building, shall include any one
or more of the following works, namely:-
(a)
necessary repairs,
(b)
structural alterations,
(c)
provision of light points and water taps,
(d)
construction of drains, open or covered,
(e)
provision of latrines and urinals,
(f)
provision of additional or improved fixtures and fittings,
(g)
opening up or paving of courtyard,
(h)
removal of rubbish, filth and other polluted and obnoxious matters, and
(i)
any other work including the demolition of any building or any part thereof which, in the opinion of the Chief Municipal
Officer, is necessary for executing any of the works as aforesaid.
(8)
The provisions of this Section and Section 334 and Section 335 shall not apply in relation to any building in any area
which has been declared to be a slum area under any State law relating to improvement or clearance of slums.
Page 105/183
----- PAGE 106 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
279.
Area improvement scheme.
- If the Municipality, upon information in its possession in respect of any built-up area within the municipal area, is
satisfied that-
(a)
the buildings in that area are, by reason of disrepair or sanitary defects, unfit for human habitation or are, by reason of
their bad arrangement or narrowness or bad arrangement of the streets or want of light, air, ventilation or proper
conveniences, dangerous or injurious to the health of the inhabitants of that area, or
(b)
because of bad layout or obsolete or undesirable dwellings, renewal of such area is necessary, or
(c)
there is need to create new or improved means of communication and facilities for traffic, and that the most satisfactory
method of remedying these defects is to prepare an area improvement scheme in respect of such area, the Municipality
may pass a resolution so to do.
Explanation. - For the purposes of this Section and Section 280, the expression "built-up area" shall mean an area
which, in the opinion of the Empowered Standing Committee, is densely built-up.
280.
Matters to be provided in area improvement scheme.
- An area improvement scheme may provide for all or any of the following matters, namely:-
(a)
laying out, or relaying out, land, either vacant or already built upon,
(b)
filling up, or reclamation, of low lying swampy or unhealthy areas or levelling up of land,
(c)
redistribution of sites belonging to owners of property comprised in the scheme,
(d)
reconstitution of plots,
(e)
construction or reconstruction of buildings,
(f)
restriction on the erection or re-erection of any building or any class of buildings,
(g)
imposition of conditions and restrictions in regard to the open spaces to be maintained around any building, percentage
of built-up area for a plot, number, height and character of buildings allowed in specified areas, sub-division of plots,
discontinuance of objectionable uses of land or building in any area for specified periods, parking spaces and loading
and unloading spaces for any building and advertisement signs,
(h)
closure or demolition of buildings or portions of buildings unfit for human habitation,
(i)
demolition of obstructive buildings or portions thereof,
(j)
laying out of new streets or roads and construction, diversion, extension, alteration, improvement and closing up of
streets or roads and other means of communication,
(k)
regular lines of streets and prohibition of buildings within the regular lines of streets,
(l)
construction alteration and removal of bridges and other structures,
(m)
provision for traffic engineering schemes, street lighting, street furniture and other conveniences,
(n)
provision for water-supply, sewerage, surface or sub-soil drainage and sewage disposal,
Page 106/183
----- PAGE 107 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
(o)
provision for open spaces,
(p)
preservation and protection of objects of historical importance or of national interest or of natural beauty and of buildings
actually used for religious purposes, and
(q)
any other matter not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act and for which, in the opinion of the Municipality, it is
expedient to make provisions with a view to improving the area to which the scheme relates,
281.
Submission of area improvement scheme to Municipality and State Government.
(1)
Every area improvement scheme shall, as soon as may be after it has been prepared, be submitted for approval by the
Chief Municipal Officer to the Municipality which may either approve the scheme without modifications or with such
modifications as it may consider necessary, or reject the scheme with directions to the Chief Municipal Officer to have a
fresh scheme prepared according to such directions.
(2)
No area improvement scheme approved by the Municipality under subsection (1), which involves acquisition of land and
provision of funding support from the State Government, shall be valid unless it has been approved by the State
Government.
282.
Re-housing scheme.
- While preparing an improvement scheme under this chapter for any area, the Chief Municipal Officer may also prepare
a scheme (hereinafter referred to in this Act as re-housing scheme) for the construction, maintenance and management
of such buildings as he may consider necessary for providing accommodation for persons who are likely to be displaced
by the execution of the area improvement scheme.
283.
Area improvement scheme and re-housing scheme to comply with structure plan.
- No area improvement scheme or re-housing scheme prepared under this chapter shall be valid unless such scheme is
in conformity with the provisions of the structure plan, if, any, for the municipal area.
Explanation. - "Structure Plan" shall mean a plan which provides a broad strategic framework for preparation of
subsequent local plans and takes into consideration the regional context, the transportation linkages and the issues
relating to employment, shelter and environment.
284.
Execution of area improvement scheme.
- Any area improvement scheme prepared under this chapter may be executed by the Municipality itself or by such
person or authority as the Empowered Standing Committee may select under Chapter XXI.
285.
Power to acquire land and building for area improvement scheme.
- Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Municipality may require acquisition of any land or building, whether situated in
the municipal area or not, for the purpose of-
(i)
opening out any congested or unhealthy area or otherwise improving any portion of municipal area, or
(ii)
erecting sanitary dwellings for working and poor people, or
(iii)
executing any development plan or scheme for the benefit of persons residing in the municipal area.
286.
Power of Municipality to define and to alter limits of slum.
- The Municipality may define the external limits of any slum and may, from time to time, alter such limits.
287.
Slum improvement scheme.
Page 107/183
----- PAGE 108 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, the Municipality may, with the approval
of the State Government, prepare such improvement scheme for the purpose of effecting environmental or general
improvement of slums as it may consider necessary, and publish a copy of such scheme in such manner as may be
prescribed.
(2)
The slum improvement scheme may provide for all or any of the following matters:-
(a)
water-supply including sinking of tube-wells, laying of water pipelines, installation of overhead reservoirs, and flushing
arrangements for privies and urinals,
(b)
drainage and sewerage including connections with any existing channel or sewer main or laying or diverting of drains,
(c)
conversion of service privies into septic tank privies or water-borne privies connected with sewer mains,
(d)
sewage and garbage removal,
(e)
raising, lowering or levelling of land and improvement of pathways and passages,
(f)
lighting including laying of cables or overhead lines,
(g)
improvement of huts or other structures, and
(h)
such other matters as may be considered necessary for carrying out the purposes of this chapter.
(3)
While approving any slum improvement scheme, the State Government shall take into account the activities of other
agencies or authorities affecting all or any of the matters referred to in sub-section (2).
288.
Acquisition of right of user.
(1)
If, at any time, it becomes necessary to acquire the right of user in any land in or around any slum for the purpose of
implementing any improvement scheme in respect of such slum, the State Government may, on the recommendations
of the Municipality in this behalf, declare, by notification, its intention to acquire such right, and invite suggestions or
objections from persons likely to be affected thereby within such time as may be specified in the notification.
(2)
Every suggestion or objection received under sub-section (1) shall be heard by the Chief Municipal Officer after giving
an opportunity to all persons affected to make personal representations, if any.
(3)
The Chief Municipal Officer shall submit a report to the Empowered Standing Committee after the hearing under
sub-section (2) and after making such enquiry in this behalf as he may consider necessary.
(4)
After considering the views of the Empowered Standing Committee, the State Government may, by notification, declare
that the right of user in such land shall be acquired.
(5)
With effect from the date of publication of the notification under sub-section (4), the right of user in such land shall vest in
the Municipality, free from all encumbrances.
289.
Work to be executed in slum.
- Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing provisions of this chapter, the Chief Municipal Officer may, for
reasons of environmental sanitation, cause the following works to be executed in any slum:-
(a)
Page 108/183
----- PAGE 109 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
sinking of tube-wells inside a slum including laying of water-pipe lines, installation of overhead reservoirs and other
appurtenances necessary to maintain flushing arrangements of privies and sewers,
(b)
laying of drains or diversion of existing drains,
(c)
conversion of service privies into connected privies or septic tanks,
(d)
removal of silt from sewers and sludge from septic tanks inside a slum,
(e)
removal of solid or liquid wastes from slums including cleansing of the deck or squatting platform of the connected
privies, or septic tanks,
(f)
laying of internal roads,
(g)
provision of street lighting, and
(h)
repair work relating to any of the works referred to in clauses (a) to (e).
290.
Power of Government to require Municipality to prepare a Development/Master Plan.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act the Government may, by notification require the Municipality to prepare
and submit to the Government before a fixed date a Draft Development/Master Plan in respect of Municipality.
(2)
Where by virtue of the forgoing provisions of this Act a Development/ Master Plain is to be prepared, then-
(a)
If within the period specified or within such period which the Government has extended, no Development/Master Plan
has been prepared; or.
(b)
If at any time the Government is satisfied that the Municipality is not taking steps necessary to prepare such
Development/Master Plan within that period, the Government may direct the Chief Town Planner or other consultants to
prepare the Development/Master Plan.
(3)
After the preparation of the Development/Master Plan the Chief Town Planner shall submit the Development/Master
Plan to the Government and shall follow the procedure and exercise the powers of the Municipality in manner prescribed
under this Act.
(4)
Any expense incurred under this Section in connection with the preparation of development Plan for the Municipality
shall be paid by the Municipality.
291.
Committee for Metropolitan Planning.
(1)
There shall be constituted in the Metropolitan area a Metropolitan Planning Committee to prepare a draft development
plan for the Metropolitan area as a whole.
(2)
The State Government may, by Rule, make provision with respect to-
(a)
composition of the Metropolitan Planning Committee.
(b)
the manner in which the seats in such Committee shall be filled:
Provided that not less than two-third of the members of such Committee shall be elected by, and from amongst, the
elected members of the Municipality, and chairpersons of the Panchayats in the Metropolitan area in proportion to the
Page 109/183
----- PAGE 110 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
ratio between the population of the Municipalities and of the Panchayats in that area;
(c)
the representation in such Committee of the Government of India and the State Government and of such organisations
and institutions as may be deemed necessary for carrying out the functions assigned to such Committees;
(d)
the functions relating to planning and Co-ordination for the Metropolitan area which may be assigned to such
Committees;
(e)
the manner in which Chairperson of such committee shall be chosen.
(3)
The Metropolitan Planning Committee shall, in preparing the draft development Plan-
(a)
have regard to-
(i)
the plans prepared by the Municipalities and the Panchayats in the Metropolitan area;
(ii)
matters of common interests between the Corporation, Municipal Council or Nagar Panchayat and Panchayts including
co-ordinated spatial planning of the area, sharing of water and other physical and natural resources, the integrated
development of infrastructures and environmental conservation;
(iii)
the overall objectives and priorities set by the Government of India and the State Government;
(iv)
the extent and nature of investments likely to be made in the metropolitan area by agencies of the Government of India
and of the State Government and other available resources, whether financial or otherwise.
(b)
Consult such institutions and organisations as the State Government may by order specify.
(4)
The Chairperson of the Metropolitan Planning Committee shall forward the development plan as recommended by such
Committee to the State Government.
Chapter XXXV
Public Streets
A. General Powers
292.
Municipal Streets Technical Committee.
(1)
The Municipality shall constitute a Municipal Streets Technical Committee with the following elected members, namely:-
(a)
in the case of a Municipal Corporation, seven Councillors to be elected by the Municipal Corporation,
(b)
in the case of a Class 'A' Municipal Council, five Councillors to be elected by the Municipal Council, and
(c)
in the case of a Class 'B' or Class 'C' Municipal Council or a Nagar Panchayat, three Councillors to be elected by the
Class 'B' or Class 'C' Municipal Council or the Nagar Panchayat, as the case may be.
(2)
In addition to the members mentioned in sub-section (1), the Municipal Streets Technical Committee shall have five
other members, namely:-
(a)
the Chief Municipal Officer who shall be the Convenor of the Committee,
(b)
the Municipal Engineer,
(c)
Page 110/183
----- PAGE 111 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
a police officer, not below the rank of an Inspector of Police, to be nominated by the Superintendent of Police of the
District concerned, and
(d)
two officers having responsibility for fire services and preparation of development plans for the municipal area, to be
nominated by the State Government either from amongst the officers of the Municipality or from the officers of the
concerned State Government Departments or any authority under any law for the time being in force.
(3)
The term of the Municipal Streets Technical Committee shall be such as may be specified by the Chief Councillor, and a
new Municipal Streets Technical Committee shall be constituted before the expiry of the term of the existing Municipal
Streets Technical Committee.
(4)
The Municipal Streets Technical Committee shall meet at least once in a month.
(5)
The Municipal Streets Technical Committee shall, in order to secure the expeditious, convenient and safe movement of
traffic, including pedestrian traffic, and suitable and adequate parking facilities on and off the public streets, and having
regard to,-
(a)
the desirability of securing and maintaining reasonable access to premises,
(b)
the effect on the amenities of any locality affected, and
(c)
any other relevant matter referred to it by the Municipality, aid, advise and assist the Municipality in the following
matters, namely:-
(i)
classification of public streets and specification of width thereof,
(ii)
prescription of regular line of street,
(iii)
regulation of abutting land uses,
(iv)
regulation of traffic,
(v)
designation of on-street parking areas,
(vi)
allocation of rights of way for underground utilities,
(vii)
placement of street furniture,
(viii)
placement of authorized fixtures on streets, such as electric and telegraph poles, post-boxes, telephone junction boxes,
sheds for buses, and milk booths,
(ix)
opening of new public streets,
(x)
permanent or temporary closure of existing public streets,
(xi)
declaring private streets as public streets, and
(xii)
any other matter that may be referred to it by the Municipality.
(6)
The Municipal Streets Technical Committee shall make recommendations to the Municipality on any matter in conformity
with the structure plan, or a scheme under Section 279 or Section 282, as the case may be, or any other development
Page 111/183
----- PAGE 112 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
and improvement scheme prepared by any Competent Authority under any law for the time being in force, and shall take
into account such plans/proposals, surveys, studies and supporting technical data on such matter as might be in the
possession of the municipality or any planning or development authority or any Department of the State Government or
any such Competent Authority.
Explanation. - "Structure Plan" shall have the same meaning as in the Explanation below Section 283.
(7)
The Municipal Streets Technical Committee may call for any record, document, map or data from the Municipality or any
planning or development authority or any Department of the State Government or any other authority under any State
law for the time being in force, and, thereupon, it shall be the duty of such Department or authority to comply with such
requisition.
(8)
The Municipality shall consider the recommendations of the Municipal Streets Technical Committee and take such
decision thereon as it thinks fit after taking into account plans, proposals, surveys, studies, and supporting technical
data, if any, referred to in sub-section (6)
(9)
If any doubt arises as to whether the decision under sub-section (8) is in conflict with any plan, scheme or programme of
any Competent Authority under any law for the time being in force, the matter shall be referred to the State Government
whose decision thereon shall be final.
293.
Classification of public streets.
(1)
Subject to the provisions of Section 10, the Empowered Standing Committee shall classify all public streets in the
municipal area in the following categories:-
(a)
category I-arterial roads,
(b)
category II-sub-arterial roads,
(c)
category III-connected, roads,
(d)
category IV-local roads, and
(e)
category V-pedestrian pathways.
(2)
The classification shall be done with due regard to the traffic role of the particular public street and the nature and
volume of traffic on it, its existing width, and abutting land uses:
Provided that the different names of public streets, which constitute essentially parts of a continuous traffic corridor, shall
not come in the way of their inclusion in any particular category.
(3)
The Empowered Standing Committee shall, from time to time, specify the minimum widths of different categories of
public streets without regard to the existing widths of such streets as may be included in such categories:
Provided that the minimum width of any public street included in category I or category II or category III or category IV
shall be not less than ten meters including the adjoining footpath, if any, and that of a public street included in category
V, shall be not less than six meters:
Provided further that such minimum widths may be revised by the Empowered Standing Committee from time to time.
(4)
The classification of the public streets in different categories may be revised from time to time.
294.
Compulsory provision of footpaths.
(1)
The Municipality shall ensure, within a reasonable time, and subject to the availability of resources, that all public streets
Page 112/183
----- PAGE 113 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
under category I, category II and category III have raised footpaths adjoining such public streets.
(2)
Notwithstanding the existing situation, the Empowered Standing Committee shall specify different minimum widths for
footpaths which are adjacent to the public streets under category I, category II, or category III so as to be not less than
one and a half metres on each side in any case:
Provided that more than one minimum width may be specified for the footpaths abutting each category of public street
so as to provide for different requirements owing to different abutting land uses:
Provided further that while prescribing or revising any regular line of a public street, it shall be stipulated that the
specifications of minimum width for footpaths shall be complied with.
(3)
The minimum widths referred to in sub-section (2) may be revised by the Empowered Standing Committee.
295.
Naming and numbering of streets.
(1)
The Municipality shall-
(a)
determine the name or number by which any street or public place vested in it shall be known,
(b)
cause to be put up or painted at a conspicuous part of any building, wall or place at or near each end, corner or entrance
of such street or some convenient part of such street, the name or number by which it shall be known, and
(c)
cause to be put up or painted on boards of suitable size the name of any public place vested in the Municipality.
(2)
The Municipality may, having regard to the hierarchy of the street system, by Regulations, specify the norms according
to which the streets may be named or numbered.
(3)
No person shall destroy, remove, deface, or, in any way, injure or alter any such name or number or sub-number put up,
or paint any name or number or sub-number different from that put up or painted by order of the Municipality.
296.
Unique premises number.
(1)
The Municipality shall, when so required by the State Government, assign a unique premises number to every premises
or part thereof in the municipal area and shall cause to be maintained a register wherein such unique premises number
shall be recorded in respect of each such premises.
Explanation. - In this Section, the expression "unique premises number" shall mean a number assigned to the premises
or part thereof by the Municipality in the following manner, namely:-
(a)
the first three digits indicating the ward number,
(b)
the next three digits indicating the street number,
(c)
the next four digits indicating the premises number,
(d)
the next three digits indicating the sub-premises number,
(e)
the next one digit indicating the code of the building use, such as residential, commercial, industrial or other use, and
(f)
the last one digit indicating the code of type of construction.
(2)
When the unique premises numbers in respect of premises in any ward of the Municipality have been determined, the
Chief Municipal Officer shall notify such unique premises numbers in such manner as may be prescribed.
Page 113/183
----- PAGE 114 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
(3)
When after the unique premises numbers inrespect of premises in any ward have been notified under sub-section (2),
any person is required under this Act or any other State law to make any application to the Municipality for any
permission or licence or for payment of any tax, or for payment of any dues for any service, or for such other purposes
as may be prescribed, the person making the application shall mention in the application the unique premises number
assigned under sub-section (1)-
297.
Rights of way for underground utilities.
- Subject to the provisions of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885, the Indian Electricity Act, 1910, and such other laws as
may be notified by the State Government for the purposes of this Section, the State Government may, by Rules, provide
for the following, namely:-
(a)
the sanction by the Municipality of specific rights of way in the sub-soil of public and private streets in any municipal area
for different public utilities including electric supply, telephone or other telecommunication facilities, gas pipes,
water-supply, drainage and sewerage, and underground rail system, pedestrian sub-ways, shopping plazas,
warehousing facilities and apparatus and appurtenances related thereto provided by the State Government, or any
statutory body or any licensee under any of the above mentioned Acts or other laws,
(b)
the levy of any fee or charges under any of the Acts or other laws as aforesaid,
(c)
the furnishing to the Municipality of maps, drawings and statements which shall enable it to compile and maintain
precise records of the placement of the underground utilities in the municipal area,
(d)
the fixing of time limit for execution of work and imposing of such conditions in this respect as the Municipality may
consider appropriate, and
(e)
the imposing of penalty in case of delay in the completion of work.
298.
Maps of underground utilities.
- The Chief Municipal Officer shall cause to be maintained complete survey maps, drawings and descriptions of all
underground utilities in the municipal area, and maps of fire hydrants and sewerage man-holes in such Form, and in
such manner, as may be provided by Regulations, and shall ensure the secrecy of the same in conformity with the
provisions of any law relating to right to information.
299.
Power to prohibit use of public streets for certain kind of traffic.
(1)
The Municipality may, by notice, in writing,-
(a)
prohibit or regulate, either temporarily or permanently, vehicular traffic in any public street or any portion thereof so as to
prevent danger, obstruction or inconvenience to the public or to ensure quietness in any locality,
(b)
prohibit, in respect of a public street or a portion thereof, the transit of any vehicle of such type, form, construction,
weight, emission, or size, or of any vehicle laden with such heavy or unwieldy object as is likely to cause injury to the
roadways or any construction thereon, or of any vehicle on the ground of public convenience, except under such
conditions as to time, mode of transaction or locomotion, use of appliances for the protection of roadways, number of
lights and assistants, and other general precautions, and on payment of such charges, as may be specified by the
Municipality generally or specifically in each case,
(c)
prohibit, at all times or during any particular hours, entry of any vehicular traffic from, or exit of such vehicular traffic into,
any premises from any particular public street carrying such traffic.
(2)
Page 114/183
----- PAGE 115 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
Any notice under sub-section (1) shall, if such notice applies to any particular public street, be pasted in conspicuous
places at or near both ends of such public street or any portion thereof to which such notice applies or, if such notice
applies generally to all public streets, be advertised.
(3)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), the Municipality may declare, by notice, in writing, that any
pedestrian pathway, or a portion thereof, shall be used as bicycle and pedestrian track.
(4)
The notice referred to in sub-section (3) shall be pasted in conspicuous places at or near both ends of such public street
or any portion thereof to which the provisions of sub-section (3) apply.
B Regular Line of Street
300.
Defining regular line of street.
(1)
The Municipality may, with due regard to the minimum widths specified for various categories of streets including the
footpaths adjoining the same, define the regular line on one or both sides of any public street or portions thereof in
accordance with the Regulations made on this behalf and may redefine at any time any such regular line:
Provided that before such defining or redefining, as the case may be, the Municipality shall, by notice, afford a
reasonable opportunity to the residents of premises abutting on such public street to make suggestions or objections
with respect to the proposed defined or redefined line of the street and shall consider all such suggestions or objections
which may be made within one month from the date of publication of such notice:
Provided further that the street alignment of any public street operative under any law for the time being in force in any
part of the municipal area immediately before the commencement of this Act, shall be deemed to be the regular line of
such public street defined by the Municipality under this sub-section.
(2)
The line defined or redefined shall be called the regular line of the street.
(3)
No person shall construct or reconstruct any building or a portion thereof or any boundary wall or other structure
whatsoever within the regular line of a street.
(4)
The Chief Municipal Officer shall maintain a register containing such particulars as may be specified by the Municipality
in this behalf, with plans attached thereto, showing all public streets in respect of which the regular line of the street has
been defined or redefined and containing any other particulars which he may deem necessary.
(5)
All such registers shall be open to inspection by any person on payment of such fee, and any extract therefrom may be
supplied on payment of such charge, as may be determined by the Municipality by Regulations.
301.
Setting back buildings to regular line of street.
(1)
If any part of a building abutting on a public street is within the regular line of that street, the Municipality may, whenever
it is proposed-
(a)
repair, rebuild or construct such building or pull down such building to an extent, measured in cubic metre, exceeding
one-half thereof above the ground level, or
(b)
repair, remove, construct or reconstruct or make any additions to, or structural alterations of, any portion of such
building, which is within the regular line of the street, by order, as respects the additions to, or rebuilding, construction,
repair or alterations of, such building, require such building to be set back to the regular line of such street.
(2)
When any building or any part thereof within the regular line of a public street falls down or is burnt down or is, whether
by reason of any order of the Municipality or otherwise, pulled down, the Chief Municipal Officer may forthwith take
possession, on behalf of the Municipality, of the portion of the land within the regular line of the street heretofore
Page 115/183
----- PAGE 116 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
occupied by such building and, if necessary, clear the same.
(3)
Any land acquired under this Section shall be deemed to be a part of the public street and shall be vested in the
Municipality.
302.
Compulsory setting back of building to regular line of street.
(1)
Where any building or any part thereof is within the regular line of public street and, in the opinion of the Municipality, it
is necessary to set back such building or part thereof to the regular line of such street, the Chief Municipal Officer shall,
by a notice served on the owner of such building in accordance with the provisions of this Act, require him to show
cause, within such period as may be specified in the notice, as to why such building or part thereof, which is within the
regular line of such street, should not be pulled down and the land within the regular line acquired by the Municipality.
(2)
If the owner fails to show cause as required under sub-section (1), the Chief Municipal Officer may, with the approval of
the Municipality, require the owner, by another notice to be served on him in such manner as may be specified by
Regulations, to pull down the building or part thereof, which is within the regular line of the street, within such period as
may be specified in the notice.
(3)
If, within such period the owner of the building fails to pull down the building or part thereof as required under
sub-section (2), the Chief Municipal Officer may pull down the same, and all the expenses incurred in so doing shall be
paid by the owner and be recoverable from him as an arrear of tax under this Act.
303.
Setting forward of building to regular line of street.
- The Municipality may, upon such terms as it thinks fit, allow any building to be set forward for the purpose of improving
the regular line of a public street and may require any building to be set forward in the case of reconstruction thereof or
of a new construction.
Explanation. - For the purposes of this Section, a wall separating any premises from a public street shall be deemed to
be a building, and it shall be deemed to be a sufficient compliance with the permission or the requirement to set forward
a building to the regular line of a street, if a wall of such materials and dimensions, as are approved by the Municipality,
is erected along such line.
304.
Acquisition of open land and land occupied by platforms etc. within regular line of street.
- If any land, whether open or enclosed, not vested in the Municipality and not occupied by any building, is within the
regular line of a public street or if any platform, verandah, step, compound wall, hedge or fence or some other structure,
authorized or not, external to a building abutting on a public street, or a portion of such platform, verandah, step,
compound wall, hedge, fence or other structure is within the regular line of such street, the Chief Municipal Officer may,
with the prior approval of the Municipality and after giving the owner of such land or building not less than seven clear
days' notice of his intention so to do, take possession, on behalf of the Municipality, of such land with its enclosing wall,
hedge or fence, if any, or of such platform, verandah, step, compound wall, hedge, fence or other structure or of any
portion thereof within the regular line of the public street, and, if necessary, clear the same, and the land so acquired
shall thereupon be deemed to be a part of the public street and shall be vested in the Municipality:
Provided that where the land of the building is vested in the State Government or the Central Government or any agency
thereof, the Chief Municipal Officer shall not take possession thereof without the previous sanction of the State
Government or the Central Government, as the case may be.
305.
Acquisition of remaining part of building and land after their portions within regular line of street have been acquired.
(1)
Where a land or building is partly within regular line of a public street and the Municipality is satisfied that the land
remaining after the excision of the portion within such line will not be suitable or fit for any beneficial use, it may, at the
request of the owner, acquire such land in addition to the land within such line, and such surplus land shall be deemed
to be part of the public street and shall be vested in the Municipality.
Page 116/183
----- PAGE 117 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
(2)
Such surplus land may, thereafter, be utilized for the purpose of setting forward a building under Section 303 or for such
other purpose as the Municipality may deem fit.
306.
Compensation to be paid in certain cases of setting back or setting forward of building etc.
(1)
A compensation shall be paid by the Municipality to the owner of any building land acquired for a public street under the
provisions of Section 301, Section 302, Section 304, or Section 305 for any loss which such owner may sustain in
consequence of his building or land being so acquired and for any expense incurred by such owner in consequence of
any order made by the Municipality.
(2)
If, in consequence of any order under Section 303 to set forward a building, the owner of such building sustains any loss
or damage, compensation shall be paid to him by the Municipality for such loss or damage.
(3)
If the additional land, which will be included in the premises of any person required or permitted under sub-section (2) to
set forward such building, belongs to the Municipality, the order-or permission of the Municipality to set forward the
building shall be a sufficient conveyance to the said owner of the said land, and the price to be paid to the Municipality
by the said owner of such additional land and the other terms and conditions of the conveyance shall be set forth in the
order or permission.
(4)
If, when the Municipality requires any building to be set forward, the owner of the building is dissatisfied with the price
fixed to be paid to the Municipality or with any of the terms or conditions of conveyance, the Chief Municipal Officer
shall, upon the application of the owner at any time within fifteen days after the said terms and conditions are
communicated to him, refer the case to the court of the District Judge having jurisdiction for determination, and the
decision of the said court thereon shall be final.
C. Obstruction on Streets
307.
Special provision regarding streets belonging to Central or State Government.
(1)
If any National Highway, State Highway, or street is vested in the Central Government or the State Government, as the
case may be,-
(a)
the Municipality shall not, in respect of such National Highway, State Highway, or street, grant permission to do any act,
the doing of which without its permission, in writing, would contravene the provisions of this Act, except with the sanction
of the Central Government or the State Government, as the case may be, and
(b)
if so required by the Central Government or the State Government, the Municipality shall exercise the powers conferred
upon it by this Act or any Regulations relating to such street.
(2)
In the case of roads vested in the State Government, and passing through the municipal area, the Municipality shall
have control over such roads in so far as permission for temporary occupation thereof and removal of encroachments
therefrom are concerned, but the maintenance of such roads shall remain with the State Government.
308.
Temporary erection on streets during festivals.
(1)
The Chief Municipal Officer may grant a permission, in writing, for temporary erection of a booth, pandal, or any other
structure on any public place on occasions of ceremonies and festivals, on payment of such fee, and on such conditions,
as may be determined by the Municipality by Regulations, and for such period as may be mentioned in the letter of
permission:
Provided that no permission shall be given under this Section without consultation with the Superintendent of Police of
the district or any police officer of equivalent rank having jurisdiction over the municipal area.
Page 117/183
----- PAGE 118 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
(2)
The person to whom such permission is granted shall fill in the ground and reinstate the same to the satisfaction of the
Chief Municipal Officer within such period as may be mentioned in the letter of permission.
309.
Precautions during construction or repair of street, drain or premises.
- Subject to the terms and conditions as may be specified by Regulations, the Chief Municipal Officer, during
construction or repair of any public street or any municipal drain or any premises vested in the Municipality, shall-
(a)
cause the same to be fenced and guarded,
(b)
take proper precaution against accident affecting public street or adjoining buildings,
(c)
prohibit, without his written permission, the deposit of any building material or the setting up of any scaffolding or any
temporary erection on any public street,
(d)
close any street wholly or partly to traffic,
(e)
provide for necessary diversion of traffic, wherever necessary,
(f)
ensure the reinstatement of the public street or restoration of any drain or premises to its original condition, and
(g)
take steps for repairing or enclosing of any place which, in his opinion, is dangerous or causing inconvenience to traffic
along a street or to persons who have legal access thereto or to the neighbourhood thereof, and recover the costs of
such repair works from the owner or the occupier of any such place or premises.
310.
Power of Municipality in relation to Regulation of street.
- Subject to such terms and conditions-as may, from time to time, be specified by Regulations, the Municipality may-
(a)
prohibit or regulate vehicular traffic in any public street or any portion thereof so as to prevent danger, obstruction or
inconvenience to the public or injury to the roadways,
(b)
prohibit, at all times or during any particular hours, entry of any vehicular traffic from, or exit of such vehicular traffic into,
any premises from any particular public street carrying such traffic,
(c)
prohibit tethering of any animal for any purpose in any public street,
(d)
prohibit in any street installation of structures or fixtures which may cause obstruction,
(e)
prohibit the opening of the ground floor door, gate, bar or window outwards on any street,
(f)
prohibit projections upon any street, or drain, or open channel in any street, and
(g)
remove anything encroached, erected, deposited or hawked on any public place or public street in contravention of the
provisions of this Act.
311.
Restoration of municipal properties by public utilities.
(1)
Subject to such terms and conditions as may be prescribed, any public utility concern requiring the use of the sub-soil
under any municipal street, drain, land or other property for the purpose of laying lines for such utility service such as
electric supply or telecommunication, shall obtain permission of the Municipality for such use.
(2)
Page 118/183
----- PAGE 119 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
At the time of according such permission, the municipality shall, in consultation with such public utility, arrive at the full
cost of restoration of the subsoil and the surface thereon and obtain an undertaking from the public utility that such
restoration shall be done at their cost so as to bring back the property to its original condition to the satisfaction of the
Municipality within a reasonable time after the completion of the work.
Chapter XXXVI
Buildings
A. Procedure
312.
Definitions.
- In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires, the expression-(1) "to erect a building" means-
(a)
to erect a new building on any site, whether previously built upon or not,
(b)
to re-erect-
(i)
any building of which more than one-half of the cubical extent above the level of plinth have been pulled down, burnt or
destroyed, or
(ii)
any building of which more than one-half of the superficial area of the external walls above the level of plinth has been
pulled down, or
(iii)
any frame-building of which more than half of the number of posts or beams in the external walls have been pulled
down,
(c)
to convert into a dwelling-house any building or any part of a building not originally so constructed for human habitation
or, if originally so constructed for human habitation, subsequently appropriated for any other purpose,
(d)
to convert into more than one dwelling-house a building originally constructed as one dwelling-house only,
(e)
to convert into a place of religious worship or into a sacred building any place or building, not originally constructed for
such purpose,
(f)
to roof or cover an open space between walls or buildings to the extent of the structure formed by the roofing or covering
of such space,
(g)
to convert two or more tenements in a building into a greater or lesser number of such tenements,
(h)
to convert into a stall, shop, office, warehouse or godown, workshop, factory or garage any building not originally
constructed for use as such, or to convert any building constructed for such use, by subdivision or addition, into greater
or lesser number of such stalls, shops, offices, warehouses or godowns, workships, factories or garages,
(i)
to convert a building, which, when originally constructed, was legally exempt from the operation of any building
Regulations or any Rules made under this Act or in any other law for the time being in force, into a building which, had it
been originally erected in its converted form, would have been subject to such building Regulations,
(j)
to convert into, or use as, a dwelling-house any building, which has been discontinued as, or appropriated for any
purpose other than, a dwelling-house,
(k)
to make any addition to a building, and
(l)
to remove or reconstruct the principal staircase of a building or to alter its position;
Page 119/183
----- PAGE 120 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
(2)
"occupancy" or "use-group" means the principal occupancy for which a building or a part of a building is used or
intended to be used,-and the occupancy classification shall, unless otherwise spelt out in any development plan or any
other improvement scheme under any law for the time being in force, include-
(a)
residential buildings, that is to say, any building in which sleeping accommodation is provided for normal residential
purposes with or without cooking facility or dining facility or both, and such building shall include one or two or
multi-family dwelling, lodging or rooming houses, hostels, dormitories, apartment houses and flats, and private garages,
(b)
educational buildings, that is to say, any building used for school, college or day-care purposes involving assembly for
instruction, education or recreation incidental to educational use,
(c)
institutional buildings, that is to say, any building or part thereof ordinarily providing sleeping accommodation for
occupants and used for the purposes of medical or other treatment or care of persons suffering from physical or mental
illness, disease or infirmity, care of infants, convalescents or aged persons and for penal or correctional detention in
which the liberty of the inmates is restricted, and such buildings shall include hospitals, clinics, dispensaries, sanatoria,
custodial institutions, and penal institution like jails, prisons, mental hospitals and reformatories,
(d)
assembly buildings, that is to say, any building or part thereof where groups of people congregate or gather for
amusement or recreation or for social, religious, patriotic, civic, travel, sports, and similar other purposes, and such
buildings shall include theatres, motion picture houses, drive-in-theatres, city halls, town halls, auditoria, exhibition halls,
museums, skating rinks, gymnasia, restaurants, eating-houses, hotels, boarding-houses, places of worship, dance halls,
club rooms, gymkhanas, passenger stations and terminals of air, surface and other public transportation services,
recreation piers, and stadia,
(e)
business buildings, that is to say, any building or part thereof used for transaction of business or for the keeping of
accounts and records or for similar purposes and such buildings shall include offices, banks, professional
establishments, court houses, and libraries for the principal function of transaction of public business and keeping of
books and records, and shall also include office buildings (premises) solely or principally used as an office or for office
purpose,
(f)
mercantile buildings, that is to say, any building or part thereof used as shops, stores or markets for display or sale or
merchandise, either wholesale or retail, or for office, storage or service facilities incidental to the sale of merchandise
and located in the same building, and such building shall include establishments wholly or partly engaged in wholesale
trade, manufacturer's whole-sale outlets (including related storage facilities), warehouses, and establishments engaged
in truck transport (including truck transport booking agencies),
(g)
industrial buildings, that is to say, any building or structure or part thereof in which products or materials of all kinds and
properties are fabricated, assembled or processed as in assembly plants, and such buildings shall include laboratories,
power plants, smoke houses, refineries, gas plants, mills, dairies, factories, workships, automobile repair garages and
printing presses,
(h)
storage buildings, that is to say, any building or part thereof used primarily for the storage or sheltering of goods, wares
or merchandise as in warehouse, and such buildings shall include cold storages, freight depots, transit sheds, store
houses, public garages, hangars, truck terminals, grain elevators, barns and stables,
(i)
hazardous buildings, that is to say, any building or part thereof used for the storage, handling, manufacture or
processing of highly combustible or explosive materials or products, which are liable to burn with extreme rapidity or
which may produce poisonous fumes or explosions during storage, handling, manufacture or processing or which
involve highly corrosive, toxic or noxious alkalis, acids or other liquids or chemicals producing flames, fumes, explosions
or mixtures of dust or which result in the division of matter into fine particles subject to spontaneous ignition;
Page 120/183
----- PAGE 121 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
(3)
"alteration" means the change from one occupancy to another, or the structural change, such as the addition to any area
or height, or the removal of a part of building, or the change to the structure, such as the construction, or cutting into, or
removal of, any wall, partition, column, beam, joint floor, or other support, or the change to, or closing of, any required
means of ingress or egress, or the change to any fixture or equipment;
(4)
"plan" means a plan prepared by a surveyor, or a draughtsman, or an engineer holding a degree of Bachelor of
Engineering, or an Architect registered under the Architects Act, 1972.
Explanation. - For the purposes of classification of a building according to occupancy under clause (2),-
(a)
an occupancy shall be deemed to include subsidiary occupancies, which are contingent upon such occupancy, and
(b)
building with mixed occupancies shall mean those buildings in which more than one occupancy are present in different
portions thereof.
313.
Prohibition of construction without sanction.
- No person shall construct, or commence to construct, any building or any structure of a permanent nature or execute
any of the work relating to construction of building including addition, alteration or modification of an existing building in
any municipal area, save and except in accordance with building bye-law.
314.
Sanction of building plan.
- No persons shall construct or commence to construct, any building or structure of permanent nature or execute any
work relating to construction of building undertake or any alteration addition or modification of an existing building
unless, the building plan is approved by a certified Architect registered under Architects Act, 1972.
Provided that no Architect shall sanction any building plan unless it is inconformity with building bye-law framed by the
State Government/Municipality.
Provided further that any Architect, who is found to have approved a building plan in contravention or in deviation of
building bye-law, he shall be liable to be prosecuted and shall be liable to pay fine of Rupees fifty thousand or sentence
to imprisonment for a period which may extend to one year or both.
315.
Construction of building in contravention of building by-law.
- Any building or structure of permanent nature which has been constructed or construction has commenced in
contravention or breach or deviation of building by-law shall be liable to be demolished, notwithstanding that it may have
been approved by a registered Architect.
Provided further that the owner or occupier or any person responsible for construction of a building or structure of
permanent nature or commencement of construction in contravention, breach, or deviation of building by-law shall
further be liable to pay a penalty of minimum of Rupees one lac, which may extend up to Rupees 10 lacs depending
upon size of the building or structure and extent of deviation.
Provided further that the penalty under this Section shall be in addition to any other fine provided under this Act including
fine for compounding as may be provided under building bye-law.
316.
Building plan approved by registered Architect to be submitted to Chief Municipal Officer.
(1)
Every registered Architect, who approves a building construction plan shall within seven days from approving the plan
submit detail of construction plan alongwith approval granted by him to the Chief Municipal Officer of the municipality.
(2)
On receipt of approved building plan by registered Architect, the Chief Municipal Officer may inquire and verify and
satisfy himself that the building construction plan confirms to building bye-law and other parameters required under this
Act.
(3)
If Chief Municipal officer, on such inquiry or verification finds that the building or structure of permanent nature
Page 121/183
----- PAGE 122 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
construction plan has been approved by the registered Architect in contravention, breach or deviation of building bye-law
or other parameters under this Act, he shall immediately stop construction work and proceed to take action against
owner, occupier or any person responsible for construction of such building in contravention, breach or deviation of
building by-law and other parameter and shall also proceed to take action against registered Architect, who approved
such building construction plan.
317.
Deviation in construction of building within permitted level.
- If any building or structure of permanent nature has been constructed or commence to construct after duly approved
building construction plan, is found to have deviated from approved construction plan within permitted level deviation,
the Chief Municipal officer shall not order for its demolition.
Provided that Chief Municipal officer shall proceed to realize such fine or penalty as is prescribed under this Act or Rule,
Regulation or building bye-law as the case may be.
Provided further that deviation within permitted level shall not be a ground to prosecute registered Architect.
318.
Periodical Inspection of construction activity.
(1)
Every registered Architect, who has approved building construction plan shall periodically inspect construction of such
building or structure of permanent nature approved by him and if he is satisfied that construction of building is in breach
or violation of building construction plan approved by him, he shall immediately report to the Chief Municipal Officer of
such violation.
(2)
On receipt of information of construction in breach or violation of approved building construction plan submitted by
registered Architect, Chief Municipal Officer shall forthwith stop the construction of such building and shall proceed to
take such action against the erring person including demolition of erected building or structure as is permitted under this
Act or Rule, Regulation or building bye-law.
(3)
It shall be open to Chief Municipal Officer to himself inspect or cause an inspection to be done by such other officer or
employee of the municipality duly authorized by him and on such inspection if he is satisfied that building or structure is
being constructed in breach or violation of approved building construction plan or building bye-law or other parameters
under this Act, he shall proceed to take such action as is permitted under this Act, Rule, and Regulation.
319.
No. action to be taken without affording opportunity.
(1)
Chief Municipal Officer shall not pass any adverse order against the owner, occupier or any person responsible for
construction of a building or structure of permanent nature in breach or violation of approved building construction plan
or any breach or contravention of building bye-law or other parameters under this Act unless the person concerned has
been afforded opportunity against such adverse order to be passed by the Chief Municipal Officer.
(2)
Chief Municipal officer shall not pass any adverse order against any registered Architect without affording opportunity of
hearing to him.
(3)
It shall be open to Chief Municipal Officer to pass an order stopping construction activity of a building or structure of
permanent nature constructed in breach or contravention of approved construction plan or building bye-law and other
parameters under this Act pending final decision by him.
320.
Pending sanction of building construction plan.
- All building construction plan, which is pending for approval by respective regional Development Authorities on or
before commencement of this Act, with effect from enforcement of this Act shall be dealt with in the manner prescribed
hereinabove.
321.
Framing of Building Bye-law.
Page 122/183
----- PAGE 123 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
(1)
The State Government shall frame Building Bye-law for the Municipalities;
Provided that State Government may frame one Building Bye-law for all the municipalities or separate Bye-law for
separate Municipalities.
(2)
Building Bye-law framed by the State Government shall be enforceable from the date it is published.
(3)
It shall be open to municipalities to introduce such modification, addition or alteration in the Building Bye-law, framed by
the State Government consistent with specific requirement of such Municipalities:
Provided that any such modification, addition or alteration in the Bye-law introduced by the Municipality shall not be
enforceable unless it is approved by the State Government:
Provided further that if State Government does not communicate its decision within 90 days from receipt of modified
Bye-law from the Municipality, on expiry of 90 days, it shall be deemed to have been approved by the State
Government.
322.
Municipalities to maintain Register of Registered Architects.
(1)
Every Municipality shall maintain a register of registered Architects, who shall be considered as authorized registered
Architects.
(2)
Every registered Architects desirous of getting his name included in register of municipality shall make an application to
the Chief Municipal Officer alongwith a fee of Rs. Five thousand.
(3)
On such application being made the Chief Municipal Officer on being satisfied that the applicant is a registered Architect
under Architect Act, 1972, shall cause his name to be entered in the register of Architects of the Municipality.
(4)
Every registered Architect who is or was registered/empanelled with any of the Regional Development Authority on or
before commencement of this Act shall be deemed to be registered Architects of a Municipality for a period of six
months from commencement of this Act:
Provided that every Architect whether or not registered/empanelled with any Regional Development Authority on or
before commencement of this Act, shall make application to the Chief Municipal .Officer within six months, failing which
he shall cease to be a registered/empanelled Architect:
Provided further that six months after commencement of this Act, only such Architects shall be entitled to approve
Building Construction Plan whose name is registered in the register of Architects of the Municipality.
323.
Order of demolition and stoppage of buildings or works in certain cases and appeal.
(1)
Where the erection of any building or the execution of any work has been commenced, or is being carried on, or has
been completed without, or contrary to, the sanction referred to in Section 314 or in contravention of any of the
provisions of this Act or the Rules or the Regulations made thereunder, the Chief Municipal Officer may, in addition to
any other action that may be taken under this Act, make an order directing that such erection or work shall be
demolished by the person at whose instance the erection or the work has been commenced or is being carried on or has
been completed, within such period, not being less than five days and more than fifteen days from the date on which a
copy of the order of demolition with a brief statement of the reasons therefor has been delivered to such person, as may
be specified in the order:
Provided that no order of demolition shall be made unless such person has been given, by means of a notice served in
such manner as the Chief Municipal Officer may think fit, an opportunity of showing cause why such order shall not be
made:
Provided further that where the erection of any work has not been completed, the Chief Municipal Officer may, by the
same order or by a separate order, whether made at the time of the issue of the notice under the first proviso or at any
other time, direct such person to stop the erection of such building or the execution of such work until the expiry of the
Page 123/183
----- PAGE 124 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
period within which an appeal against the order of demolition, if made, may be preferred under sub-section (3).
Explanation. - In this chapter, "the person at whose instance" shall mean the owner, or the occupier, or any other person
who causes the erection of any building or the execution of any work, including alterations or additions, if any, to be
done, or does it by himself.
(2)
The Chief Municipal Officer may make an order under sub-section (1), notwithstanding the fact that the assessment of
such building has been made for the levy of the property tax on lands and buildings.
(3)
Any person aggrieved by an order of the Chief Municipal Officer under sub-section (1) may, within thirty days from the
date of the order, prefer an appeal against the order to the Municipal Building Tribunal appointed under Section 329.
(4)
Where an appeal is preferred under sub-section (3) against an order under sub-section (1), the Municipal Building
Tribunal may stay the enforcement of the order on such terms, if any, and for such period, as it may think fit:
Provided that where the erection of any building or the execution of any work has not been completed at the time of the
order under sub-section (1), no order staying the enforcement of the order under that sub-section shall be made by the
Municipal Building Tribunal unless a surety, sufficient in the opinion of that Tribunal, has been given by the appellant for
not proceeding with such erection or work pending the disposal of the appeal.
(5)
Save as provided in this Section, no Court shall entertain any suit, application or other proceeding for injunction or other
relief against the Chief Municipal Officer to restrain him from taking any action, or making any order, in pursuance of the
provisions of this Section.
(6)
Every order made by the Municipal Building Tribunal on appeal and, subject to such order, every order made by the
Chief Municipal Officer under sub-section (1), shall be final and conclusive.
(7)
Where no appeal has been preferred against ah order made by the Chief Municipal Officer under sub-section (1) or
where an order under that sub-section has been confirmed on appeal, whether with or without modification, the person
against whom the order has been made shall comply with the order within the period specified therein or, as the case
may be, within the period, if any, fixed by the Municipal Building Tribunal on appeal, and, on the failure of such person to
comply with the order within such period, the Chief Municipal Officer may himself cause the building or the work to which
the order relates to be demolished, and the expenses of such demolition shall be recoverable from such person as an
arrear of tax under this Act.
(8)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Chapter, if the Empowered Standing Committee is to the opinion that
immediate action is called for in relation to a building or a work being carried on in contravention of the provisions of this
Act, it may for reasons to be recorded in writing, cause such building or work to be demolished forthwith.
324.
Order of stoppage of building or work in certain cases.
(1)
Where the demolition of any building or the erection of any building or the execution of any work has been commenced
or is being carried on without, or contrary to, the sanction referred to in Section 314 or in contravention of any condition
subject to which such sanction has been accorded or in contravention of any provisions of this Act or the Rules or the
Regulations made thereunder, the Chief Municipal Officer may, in addition to any other action that may be taken under
this Act, by order, require the person at whose instance the building or the work has been commenced or is being
carried on to stop the same forthwith.
(2)
(a)
Notwithstanding anything contained elsewhere in this Act or in any Rules or Regulations made thereunder, no owner of
any building, and no person engaged in the construction of any building on behalf of the owner thereof, shall allow
storage or stagnation of water in the site for the construction of such building and every such owner or every such
person, as the case may be, shall completely empty all collections of such water at least once in a week.
Page 124/183
----- PAGE 125 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
(b)
Where the construction of a building is carried on in contravention of the provisions of clause (a), the Chief Municipal
Officer may, in addition to any other action that may be taken under this Act, by order, in writing, require the person at
whose instance such storage or stagnation of water in the site for the construction of the building is made, to stop
forthwith any further construction of the building, and such order shall remain in force till the person as aforesaid
complies with the requirements of the order as aforesaid, to the satisfaction of the Chief Municipal Officer.
(3)
If an order by the Chief Municipal Officer under clause (b) of sub-section (2) directing any person to stop the
construction of any building is not complied with, the Chief Municipal Officer may take such measures as he deems fit or
may require any police officer to remove such person and all his assistants and workmen from the premises within such
time as may be specified by the Chief Municipal Officer, and such police officer shall comply with such requirement.
(4)
If an order by the Chief Municipal Officer under Section 323 or under subsection (1) of this Section, directing any person
to stop the erection of any building or the execution of any work, is not complied with, the Chief Municipal Officer may
take such measures as he deems fit or may require any police officer to remove such person and all his assistants and
workmen from the premises within such time as may be specified by the Chief Municipal Officer, and such police officer
shall comply with such requirements.
(5)
No Court shall entertain any suit, application or other proceeding for injunction or other relief against the Chief Municipal
Officer to restrain him from taking any action or making any order in pursuance of the provisions of this Section.
(6)
On the compliance with the requirement under sub-section (5), the Chief Municipal Officer may, if he thinks fit, depute,
by an order, in writing, a police officer or an officer or other employee of the Municipality to watch the premises in order
to ensure that the erection of the building or the execution of the work is not continued.
(7)
Where a police officer or an officer or other employee of the Municipality has been deputed under sub-section (6) to
watch the premises, the cost of such deputation, to be determined by the Municipality by Regulations, shall be paid by
the person at whose instance such erection or execution is being continued or to whom notice under sub-section (1) has
been given, and shall be recoverable from such person as an arrear of tax under this Act.
325.
Construction of building in contravention of the provisions of the Act or the Rules made thereunder.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or the rules made thereunder or in any other law for the time being in
force, any person, who, being responsible, by himself or by any other person on his behalf, so constructs, or attempts, or
conspires, to so construct, any new building or additional floor or floors of any building, in contravention of the provisions
of this Act or the Rules made thereunder, and endangers, or is likely to endanger, human life, or any property of the
Municipality, whereupon the water-supply, drainage or sewerage or the road traffic is disrupted or is likely to be
disrupted or is likely to cause a fire hazard, shall be punishable with imprisonment of either description for a term which
may extend to five years and also with fine which may extend to fifty thousand rupees.
Explanation. - "Person" shall include an owner, occupier, lessee, mortgagee, consultant, promoter or financer, or a
servant or agent of an owner, occupier, lessee, mortgagee, consultant, promoter or financier, who supervises, or causes
the construction of, any new building or additional floor or floors of any building as aforesaid.
(2)
The offence under sub-section (1) shall be cognizable and non-bailable within the meaning of the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973.
(3)
Where an offence under sub-section (1) has been committed by a Company, the provisions of Section 438 shall apply to
such Company.
Explanation. - "Company" shall have the same meaning as in the Explanation to Section 438.
326.
Power of Chief Municipal Officer to require alteration of work.
Page 125/183
----- PAGE 126 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
(1)
The Chief Municipal Officer may, at any time during the erection of any building or the execution of any work or at any
time within three months after the completion thereof, by notice, in writing, specify any matter in respect of which such
erection or execution is without, or contrary to, the sanction referred to in Section 314 or is in contravention of any
condition of such sanction or of any of the provisions of this Act or the Rules or the Regulations made thereunder and
require the person who gave the notice under Section 319 or the owner of such building or work either-
(a)
to make such alterations as may be specified by the Chief Municipal Officer in the notice with the object of bringing the
building or the work in conformity with such sanction or such condition of such sanction or the provisions of this Act or
the Rules or the Regulations made thereunder, or
(b)
to show cause, within such period as may be stated in the notice, why such alterations should not be made.
(2)
If such person or such owner does not show any cause as aforesaid, he shall be bound to make the alterations specified
in the notice.
(3)
If such person or such owner shows the cause as aforesaid, the Chief Municipal Officer shall, by order, either cancel the
notice issued under sub-section (1) or confirm the same subject to such modifications as he thinks fit.
327.
Completion certificate.
(1)
Every person giving a notice under Section 319 or every owner of a building or work to which such notice relates shall,
within one month after the completion of erection of such building or execution of such work, deliver or send or cause to
be delivered or sent to the Chief Municipal Officer a notice, in writing, of such completion accompanied by a certificate in
the Form specified in the Rules made in this behalf and shall give to the Chief Municipal Officer all necessary facilities
for inspection of such building or work.
(2)
No person shall occupy, or permit any other person to occupy, any such building or use, or permit any other person to
use, any building or a part thereof affected by any such work until permission has been granted by the Chief Municipal
Officer in this behalf in accordance with the Rules and the Regulations made under this Act:
Provided that if the Chief Municipal Officer fails, within a period of thirty days of receipt of the notice of completion, to
communicate his refusal to grant such permission, such person may make a representation in writing to the Chief
Councillor.
B. Municipal Building Code
328.
Power of the State Government to make Building Rules and to classify municipal areas for the purpose of application of
building rules.
(1)
The State Government shall prepare a Code to be called the Municipal Building Code containing rules providing for-
(a)
the regulation or restriction of the use of sites for buildings,
(b)
the regulation or restriction of buildings, and
(c)
compliance with the provisions of any law relating to urban land ceiling or urban land use planning.
(2)
Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such Code may provide for all or any of the following
matters:-
(a)
information and plans to be submitted together with application under any of the provisions of this chapter,
(b)
Page 126/183
----- PAGE 127 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
requirements of sites,
(c)
means of access,
(d)
development of land into land sub-division and layout,
(e)
land use classification and uses,
(f)
open space, area and height limitations,
(g)
parking spaces,
(h)
requirements of parts of building plinth, habitable room, kitchen, pantry, bathroom, water closet, loft, ledge, mezzanine
floor, store-room, garage, roof, basement, chimney, lighting and ventilation of room, parapet, wells, septic tanks, and
boundary wall,
(i)
provision of lifts,
(j)
exit requirements including doorways, corridors, passageways, staircase, ramps and lobbies,
(k)
fire protection requirements including materials and designs for interior decoration,
(l)
special requirements of occupancies for residential building, educational building, institutional building, assembly
building, business building, mercantile building, industrial building, storage building and hazardous building (including
those for assembly, movement, parking, loading, unloading, public conveniences, water- supply and vendors' plazas),
(m) structural design,
(n)
quality of materials and workmanship,
(o)
alternative materials, methods of design, construction and tests,
(p)
building services including electric supply and such supply from non-conventional sources of energy, air-conditioning or
heating, and telecommunication systems,
(q)
water-supply, water harvesting, and plumbing services,
(r)
signs and outdoor display structures,
(s)
special requirements for building in the hill areas,
(t)
special requirements of access for handicapped persons in respect of matters referred to in chapter XXII, chapter XXIII,
chapter XXIV, and chapter XXV,
(u)
protection against natural disasters including earthquakes and cyclones and technological disasters, and
(v)
any other matter considered necessary in relation to building activities.
(3)
The State Government may, by notification, exempt any municipal area or any group of municipal areas as classified
under Section 7 from the operation of all or any of the provisions of this chapter or the rules made under this Section.
(4)
While such exemption under sub-section (3) remains in force in any municipal area or group of municipal areas, the
Page 127/183
----- PAGE 128 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
State Government may make Rules consistent with the provisions of this chapter for application to such municipal area
or group of municipal areas.
C. Municipal Building Tribunal
329.
Municipal Building Tribunal.
(1)
The State Government may appoint one or more Municipal Building Tribunals (hereinafter referred to in this Section as
the Tribunal) as may be considered necessary to hear and decide appeals arising out of matters referred to in Chapter
XXXVII in accordance with such procedure, and to realize such fees in connection with such appeals, as may be
prescribed.
(2)
Each Tribunal shall consist of a Chairperson and two other members.
(3)
The Chairperson shall be appointed by the State Government from the person who are or have been members of the
State Superior Judicial Service,
(4)
The State Government shall appoint other two members of the Tribunal, one of whom may be a Civil Engineer not below
the rank of the Executive Engineer and other may be a Civil Engineer or Architect having ten years experience of town
planning.
(5)
The Chairperson and the other members of the Tribunal shall hold office during the pleasure of the State Government
and shall be paid from the Municipal Fund and their terms and conditions shall be determined by the State Government:
Provided that a Councillor or a person who is or has been an officer or other employee of the Municipality shall not be
eligible for appointment as a member of the Tribunal.
(6)
The State Government may, if it thinks fit, remove for reason of incompetence or misconduct for any other good or
sufficient reason the Chairperson or any other member of the Tribunal.
(7)
The Tribunal shall have such officers and other employees, appointed on such terms and conditions, as may be
prescribed, and the expenses of the Tribunal shall be paid out of the Municipal Fund.
(8)
The provisions of Part II and Part III of the Limitation Act, 1963, relating to appeal shall apply to every appeal preferred
under this Section.
(9)
No court shall have jurisdiction in any matter for which provision is made in this Chapter for appeal to the Tribunal.
D. General Powers
330.
Building at corners of streets.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or the Rules and the Regulations made thereunder or of any other law for
the time being in force, the Chief Municipal Officer may, in the case of any building which is intended to be erected at the
corner of two streets,-
(a)
refuse sanction for such reasons as may be recorded in writing, or
(b)
impose restrictions on its use, or
(c)
place special conditions concerning exit to, or entry from, any street, or
(d)
require it to be rounded off or splayed or cut off to such height and to such extent as he may determine, or
(e)
Page 128/183
----- PAGE 129 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
acquire such portion of the site at the corner as he may consider necessary for public convenience or amenity.
(2)
The Chief Municipal Officer may, by order, in writing, require any alteration, corresponding to any of the provisions in
clauses (b) to (e) of sub-section (1), to be made to any building completed before the commencement of this Act.
331.
Provision as to building and work on either side of new street or near fly-over or transportation terminal.
(1)
The sanction to the erection of any work on either side of a new street may be refused by the Chief Municipal Officer
unless and until such new street has been levelled, and, in the opinion of the Chief Municipal Officer, wherever
practicable, metalled or paved, drained, lighted and laid with a water main, to his satisfaction.
(2)
The sanction to the erection of any such building or the execution of any such work may be refused by the Chief
Municipal Officer, if such building or any portion thereof or such work comes within the regular line of any street, the
position and direction of which have been laid down by the Chief Municipal Officer but which has not been actually
erected or executed, or if such building or any portion thereof or such work is in contravention of any building plan or any
other scheme or plan prepared under this Act or any other law for the time being in force.
(3)
The Chief Municipal Officer may refuse permission for the erection or re-erection of any building which, when completed,
will be within such distance from a fly-over or overbridge or transportation terminal or other construction as may be
provided by Rules or Regulations made in this behalf.
332.
Provision against use of inflammable material for building etc. without permission.
(1)
No roof, verandah, pandal or wall of a building or no shed or fence shall be constructed or reconstructed of cloth, grass
leaves, mats or other inflammable materials except with the permission, in writing, of the Chief Municipal Officer, nor
shall any such roof, verandah, pandal, wall, shed or fence, constructed or reconstructed in any year, be retained in a
subsequent year except with the fresh permission obtained in this behalf.
(2)
Every permission under sub-section (1) shall expire at the end of the year for which it is granted.
(3)
The Chief Municipal Officer may regulate the use of materials, design or construction or other practices for interior
decoration in accordance with the Rules and the Regulations in this behalf.
333.
Power to regulate future construction of buildings in particular streets or localities.
(1)
The Chief Municipal Officer may, subject to the prior approval of the Empowered Standing Committee, give notice of his
intention to declare-
(a)
that in any street or portion thereof specified in such notice, the elevation and construction of the frontage of all buildings
or any classes of building erected or erected after such notice shall, in respect of their architectural features, be such as
the Empowered Standing Committee may consider suitable to the locality, or
(b)
that in any locality specified in such notice, there shall be allowed the erection of only detached or semi-detached
building or both and that the land appurtenant to each such building shall be of an area, being not less than that
specified in such notice, or
(c)
that the division or sub-division of building plots in a particular locality shall be of a minimum specified area, or
(d)
that in any locality specified in the notice, the construction of more than a specified number of buildings on each acre of
land shall not be allowed, or
(e)
Page 129/183
----- PAGE 130 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
that in any street, portion of a street, or locality, specified in such notice, the construction of any one or more of the
different classes of buildings (such as residential, educational, institutional, assembly, business, mercantile, industrial,
storage, and hazardous buildings) shall not be allowed without the special permission of the Empowered Standing
Committee.
(2)
The Empowered Standing shall consider all suggestions or objections, received within a period of three months of the
publication of such notice, and may confirm the declaration, or may modify it, so, however that the effect of such notice
is not extended.
(3)
The Chief Municipal Officer shall publish any declaration so confirmed or modified in the Official Gazette and the
declaration shall take effect from the date of such publication.
(4)
No person shall, after the date of publication of such declaration, erect or re-erect any building in contravention of such
declaration.
(5)
The Empowered Standing Committee shall ensure that such declaration is in conformity with the provisions of any State
Law relating to urban land use planning.
334.
Power to stop excavation.
- If, during excavation or any other operation for the purpose of construction of any building or execution of any work,
any of the underground utilities (such as electric or telephone cables, water-supply, drainage and sewerage mains, and
gas pipes) is touched or is likely to be touched, or if the Chief Municipal Officer is of opinion that such excavation may
cause danger to the public, the Chief Municipal Officer may, by order, in writing, stop forthwith any such excavation or
other work till the matter is investigated and decided to his satisfaction.
335.
Power to require alteration of existing buildings.
- The Chief Municipal Officer may, with a view to promoting convenience, safety, privacy of the public or the occupier, or
sanitation or to securing conformity with the provisions of this Act and the Rules and the Regulations made thereunder,
by order, in writing, require the owner of any existing building to make such alterations therein, and within such period,
as may be specified in the order:
Provided that before making any such order, the Chief Municipal Officer shall afford a reasonable opportunity to the
owner to show cause why such order should not be made.
336.
Power to order removal of dangerous buildings.
(1)
If any wall or building, or anything affixed thereto, is deemed by the Chief Municipal Officer to be in a ruinous state, or is
likely to fall, or to be in anyway dangerous, he shall forthwith cause a notice, in writing, to be served on the owner and to
be put on some conspicuous part of the wall or building or served on the occupier, if any, of the building requiring such
owner or occupier forthwith to demolish, repair, or secure such wall, building or thing, as the case may require.
(2)
The Chief Municipal Officer may, if it appears to him necessary so to do, cause a proper hoarding or fence or other
means of protection to be put up at the expense of the owner of such wall or building for the safety of the public or the
inmates thereof; and may, after giving them such notice as the Chief Municipal Officer may think necessary, require the
inmates of the building to vacate it.
(3)
The provisions of this Act and of any Rules or Regulations made thereunder relating to buildings shall apply to any work
done in pursuance, or in consequence, of a notice issued under sub-section (1).
(4)
(a)
Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing provisions of this Section, the Chief Municipal Officer may, forthwith
or with such notice as he thinks fit, demolish, repair or secure or cause to be demolished, repaired or secured, any such
Page 130/183
----- PAGE 131 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
wall or building or thing affixed thereto, on the report of the Municipal Architect and Town Planner, certifying that such
demolition, repair or securing of the building, wall or thing is necessary for the safety of the public or the inmates of the
building.
(b)
In any such case, the Chief Municipal Officer may cause the inmates of the building to be summarily removed from such
building or from such portion thereof as he may consider necessary.
(c)
All expenses incurred by the Chief Municipal Officer for carrying out the purposes of this sub-section shall be paid by the
owner of such wail, building or thing.
(5)
Anything done or any action taken by the Chief Municipal Officer under sub-section (4) shall, unless the contrary is
proved, be deemed to have been done or taken lawfully and in good faith.
337.
Inspection of building.
(1)
The Chief Municipal Officer may, at any time during the erection or re-erection of a building or the execution of any work
under this Chapter, make an inspection thereof without giving any previous notice of his intention so to do.
(2)
The Chief Municipal Officer may inspect any existing building at any time by giving seven day's notice in advance.
338.
Permission in case of non-residential uses of premises.
(1)
No person shall, without the previous permission, in writing, of the Chief Municipal Officer, or otherwise than in
conformity with the conditions, if any, of such permission, put any premises to non-residential use including the use for
an educational building or an institutional building or an assembly building or a business building or a mercantile building
or an industrial building or a storage building or a hazardous building.
(2)
The Chief Municipal Officer may refuse to give such permission in any case on the ground that such use-
(a)
would be objectionable by reason of the density of population in the neighbourhood, or
(b)
would add to the traffic constraints in the vicinity including parking spaces for vehicles, or -
(c)
would not conform to other predominant uses in the neighbourhood, or
(d)
would constitute a fire hazard, or
(e)
would be a nuisance to the inhabitants of the neighbourhood, or
(f)
in the case of a hospital or a clinic, would be harmful to the patients due to noise or an environment which poses a
health hazard, or
(g)
in the case of an educational building, would deprive the students of playground facilities.
(3)
Subject to any land use control under this Act or any other law for the time being in force, the decision of the Chief
Municipal Officer in every case where permission is refused under this Section shall be final.
339.
Conditions for grant of permission.
- In the case of any premises for the use of which a licence or permission is required from the State Government or any
authority under any law for the time being in force, the Chief Municipal Officer shall not grant such permission under this
Act to any person until such person produces before the Chief Municipal Officer the licence or the permission from the
Page 131/183
----- PAGE 132 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
State Government or such authority, as the case may be, and submits duly authenticated copy thereof to him:
Provided that in the case where production of a permission of the Municipality is a precondition for the grant of a licence
or permission under any other law for the time being in force, the Chief Municipal Officer may grant a provisional
permission which shall be authenticated to be final only upon production of a licence or permission under the said law:
Provided further that such provisional permission shall have validity only for the purpose of fulfilling any precondition for
the grant of the licence or the permission under any other law as aforesaid.
E. Regulation of Building Uses
340.
Power to prohibit change of authorized use of building.
(1)
No person shall, without the permission, in writing, of the Chief Municipal Officer or otherwise than in conformity with the
conditions of such permission,-
(a)
use, or permit to be used, for the purpose of human habitation any building or part thereof not originally erected or
authorized to be used for such purpose,
(b)
change, or allow the change of, the use of a building for any. purpose other than that specified in the sanctioned plan,
(c)
change, or allow the change of, the use of any building erected before the commencement of this Act contrary to the use
for which such erection was originally sanctioned or to the use to which such building was actually put,
(d)
convert, or allow the conversion of, a tenement within a building to an occupational use, other than the use intended in
the original sanctioned plan, or materially alter, enlarge, or extend such use.
(2)
If, in any case, such permission is given, no change of occupancy or use shall be allowed before necessary alterations
or provisions have been made to the satisfaction of the Chief Municipal Officer and in accordance with the provisions of
this Act and the Rules and the Regulations made thereunder and any other law for the time being in force.
(3)
Any change of use made before the commencement of this Act, except in so far as such use is permissible under the
provisions of an earlier State law on the subject in force before the commencement of this Act, shall be deemed to be a
change in contravention of the provisions of this Act.
(4)
Without prejudice to any other action that may be taken against any person, whether owner or occupier, contravening
any provision of this Section, the Municipality may levy on such person such fine, not exceeding, in each case, rupees
one hundred per square metre per month for the area under unauthorized use throughout the period during which such
contravention continues, as may be provided by regulations.
(5)
The Chief Municipal Officer may, if he deems fit, order that such unauthorized use be stopped forthwith:
Provided that before making any such order, he shall give a reasonable opportunity to the person affected to show
cause why such order shall not be made.
(6)
Any person aggrieved by an order of the Chief Municipal Officer under subsection (5) may, within thirty days from the
date of the order, prefer an appeal against the order to the Municipal Building Tribunal whose decision in the matter shall
be final and conclusive.
(7)
When an appeal is preferred under sub-section (6), the Municipal Building Tribunal or the Municipality, as the case may
be, may stay the enforcement of the order made by the Chief Municipal Officer under sub-section (5) on such terms, and
for such period, as it may think fit.
(8)
Save as otherwise provided in this Section, no court shall entertain any suit, application or other proceeding for any relief
or injunction, restraining the Chief Municipal Officer or the Municipal Building Tribunal or the Municipality from taking any
Page 132/183
----- PAGE 133 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
action or making any order in pursuance of the provisions of this Section.
Explanation. - For the purposes of this Chapter, "unauthorized use" shall mean change or conversion of a building
without sanction from one occupancy or use group to another occupancy or use group referred to in sub-section (2) of
Section 312.
341.
Power to prevent use of premises for specified purpose in particular area for environmental reasons.
(1)
The Municipality may give notice of its intention to declare that in any area specified in the notice, no person shall, for
environmental reasons stated therein, use any premises for any purpose specified in the notice.
(2)
Any objection to any such notice shall be received within a period of thirty days from the date of the notice.
(3)
The Municipality shall consider all objections received within the period as aforesaid, giving any person affected by the
notice an opportunity of being heard, and may, thereupon, make a declaration in accordance with the notice under
subsection (1), with such modifications, if any, as it may think fit.
(4)
Every such declaration shall be published in the manner provided by Regulations and shall take effect from the date of
such publication.
(5)
No person shall, in any area specified in the declaration published under sub-section (4), use any premises for any
purpose specified in the declaration, and the Chief Municipal Officer shall have the power to stop such use of any such
premises by such means as he may consider necessary.
(6)
The Municipality shall ensure that such declaration is in conformity with the provisions of any land use plan in force in
the municipal area under any State Law regulating such use.
Chapter XXXVII
Municipal Licences
342.
Premises not to be used for non-residential purpose without Municipal Licence.
(1)
Except as hereinafter provided in this Act, no person shall use,.or permit to be used, any premises for any of the
non-residential purposes mentioned in the Schedule without or otherwise than in conformity with the terms of a licence
granted by the Chief Municipal Officer or the Wards Committee under subsection (6) of Section 30, as the case may be,
so as not to contravene the provisions of sub-section (2) of this Section:
Provided that no such licence shall be given in respect of any non-residential use of a premises, if such use is otherwise
than in conformity with the provisions of this Act, or any other law for the time being in force, or the Rules or the
Regulations or the orders made thereunder:
Provided further that except in cases which come under the provisions of subsection (2) of this Section or Section 344 or
Section 346, the power to issue such licence within its jurisdiction may be exercised by the Wards Committee, subject to
such conditions, and in such manner, as may be determined by Regulations.
(2)
In the case of a non-residential use of a premises for a purpose for which a licence or permission is required from the
State Government or any statutory body under any law for the time being in force, no licence under this Section shall be
given until the licence or the permission under the said law has been produced before the Chief Municipal Officer, and
duly authenticated copies thereof have been submitted to him:
Provided that in the case where the production of a licence under this Act is a pre-condition for the grant of a licence
under any other law for the time being in force, the Chief Municipal Officer may grant a provisional licence, which shall
be authenticated to be final only upon the production of a licence or permission under the said law:
Provided further that such provisional licence shall have validity only for the purpose of fulfilling the preconditions of the
grant of a licence under any other law as aforesaid.
(3)
Page 133/183
----- PAGE 134 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
In specifying the terms of a licence granted under this Section, the Chief Municipal Officer may require the licensee to
take all or any of such measures as he may deem fit to guard against danger to life, health or property or for the
abatement of nuisance of any kind.
(4)
The Municipality shall, by Regulations, determine the fees to be paid in respect of a licence granted under sub-section
(1), and may specify different fees for different categories of non-residential uses in different areas within the Municipal
area:
Provided that no such fees shall exceed rupees two thousand and five hundred in any case.
(5)
The Municipality may, by regulations, determine-
(a)
as to when the initial licence is to be taken out and the procedure of annual renewal thereof, is to begin, and
(b)
the matter connected with the display of licence, inspection of premises, power of inspectors, and such other matters as
may be deemed necessary.
343.
Registers to be maintained.
- The Chief Municipal Officer shall maintain in such Form, and in such manner, as may be prescribed, two separate
registers of which. -
(a)
one shall contain premises wise information of non-residential uses, indicating the unique premises number, if any,
assigned under this Act, and
(b)
the other shall contain such information, on the basis of different non-residential user groups for factories, warehouses,
medical institutions, educational institutions, and such other uses, as may be provided by Regulations.
344.
Municipal licence for private markets.
(1)
The Chief Municipal Officer may, with the prior approval of the Municipality, grant to any person a licence to establish or
keep open a private market on payment of such fees as may be determined by the Municipality by Regulations, and may
specify such conditions consistent with this Act as he may deem fit.
(2)
When the Chief Municipal Officer refuses to grant any licence, he shall record a brief statement of the reasons for such
refusal.
(3)
The Chief Municipal Officer may, with the prior approval of the Municipality and for reasons to be recorded in writing, by
order, suspend a licence in respect of a private market for such period as he thinks fit or cancel such licence.
(4)
A private market in respect of which the licence has been suspended or cancelled under sub-section (3) shall be closed
with effect from such date as may be specified in the order of suspension or cancellation.
345.
Municipal licence for sale of flesh, fish or poultry.
(1)
No person shall, without or otherwise than in conformity with a licence from the Chief Municipal Officer, carry on the
trade of a butcher, fish-monger, poulterer or importer of flesh, intended for human food, or use any place for the sale of
flesh, fish or poultry, intended for human food:
Provided that no person shall sell, or expose for sale, any flesh obtained from an animal unless the skinned carcass of
the animal is stamped in such manner as the Chief Municipal Officer may, by general order made in this behalf, required
in token of the fact that the animal has been slaughtered in a municipal or licensed slaughterhouse:
Provided further that no licence shall be required for any place used for sale, or storage for sale, of preserved flesh or
fish contained in air-tight or hermetically sealed receptacles.
Page 134/183
----- PAGE 135 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
(2)
The Chief Municipal Officer may, by order, and subject to such conditions as to supervision and inspection as he may
think fit to impose, grant a licence or may, by order and for reasons to be recorded in writing, refuse to grant a licence.
(3)
The Municipality shall, by regulations, determine the procedure for the issue of a licence and renewal thereof.
(4)
If any place is used for the sale of flesh, fish or poultry intended for human food in contravention of the provisions of this
Section, the Chief Municipal Officer may stop the use of such place in such manner as he may consider necessary.
346.
Prohibition of unlicensed activities.
(1)
Without or otherwise than in conformity with the terms of a licence granted by the Chief Municipal Officer in this behalf,
no person shall, within the municipal area, use, or permit to be used, any land or building-
(a)
for keeping horses, cattle or other quadruped animals or birds for transportation, sale or hire or for sale of the produce,
or
(b)
as a market in respect of which a licence is required under this Act, or
(c)
for carrying out work as an artisan, or
(d)
for trade of a butcher, fish-monger, poulterer or importer of flesh intended for human food or for sale thereof.
(2)
If any land or building, public or private, is used, or permitted to be used, in contravention of the provisions of
sub-section (1), the Chief Municipal Officer may stop the use thereof by such means as he deems fit, and may
confiscate any article in respect of which such use is being made, prepare an inventory thereof, and, in the case of
perishable items, auction them without notice.
347.
Power to stop use of premises used in contravention of licences.
(1)
If the Chief Municipal Officer is of the opinion that any premises is being used for a non-residential purpose without a
licence under this Act or otherwise than in conformity with the terms of a licence granted in respect thereof, he may stop
the use of any such premises for any such purpose for a specified period by such means as he may consider necessary.
(2)
If a person continues to use a premises in contravention of the provisions of sub-section (1), the Chief Municipal Officer
may, notwithstanding any other action that may be taken against such person under this Act, levy on such person a
continuing fine in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (4) of Section 367.
348.
Power to seize food or drug etc.
(1)
The Chief Municipal Officer, or any officer or other employee of the Municipality authorized by him in this behalf, may, at
any time by day or night, without notice, inspect and examine any food or drug or any utensil or vessel used for
preparing, manufacturing or storing such food or drug.
(2)
If, upon such inspection or examination, any such food or drug is, in the opinion of the Chief Municipal Officer or the
officer or other employee authorized by him in this behalf, unwholesome or unfit for human consumption, or is not what it
is represented to be, or if any such utensil or vessel is of such kind, or in such state, as to render any food or drug
prepared, manufactured, or stored therein, unwholesome or unfit for human consumption, he may seize, seal or carry
away such food or drug or utensil or vessel.
(3)
If any food or drug seized under sub-section (2) is, in the opinion of the Chief Municipal Officer, unfit for human
Page 135/183
----- PAGE 136 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
consumption, he shall cause such food or drug to be forthwith destroyed in such manner as to prevent its being again
exposed for sale or used for human consumption, and the expenses thereof shall be paid by the person in whose
possession such food or drug was at the time of its seizure.
Chapter XXXVIII
Vital Statistics
349.
Appointment of Chief Registrar and Registrars.
(1)
The Chief Municipal Health Officer shall be the Chief Registrar of births and deaths occurring in the municipal area.
(2)
The Chief Municipal Officer shall, for the purposes of this chapter, appoint such number of persons to be Registrars of
births and deaths as he deems necessary and shall define the respective areas which shall be under the charge of such
Registrars.
350.
Duties of Registrars.
- Each Registrar shall keep himself informed of every birth or death occurring within the area of his jurisdiction and shall
ascertain such particulars in respect of every birth or death as may be prescribed in this behalf.
351.
Register books to be maintained.
(1)
Such particulars regarding births and deaths as the Chief Municipal Officer may, from time to-time, specify, shall be
entered in separate registers of births and of deaths, and such registers shall be maintained by each Registrar.
(2)
The Chief Municipal Officer shall specify the Forms of the registers required to be maintained under sub-section (1) and
the manner in which such registers shall be maintained.
(3)
On an application from a person interested, the Chief Registrar or a Registrar, as the case may be, shall issue an extract
from any entry in a register on payment of such fees as may be determined by the Municipality by Regulations.
352.
Registration of births and deaths.
- Subject to the provisions of the Registration of Births and Deaths Act, 1969, the Municipality shall cause registration of
births and deaths taking place within the municipal area and extracts of information therefrom shall be supplied, on
application, in such Form of a certificate, and on payment of such fees, as may be determined by regulations.
353.
Registration of name of child or of alteration of name.
(1)
When the birth of any child has been registered and the name, if any, by which it was registered, is altered or, if it was
registered without a name, when a name is given to it, the parent or the guardian of such child or other person proposing
such name to be altered or given may, within sixty months next after the registration of the birth, deliver to the Registrar
of the area in which the birth was registered, such certificate as hereinafter provided, and the Registrar, upon the receipt
of the certificate, shall, without any erasure of the original entry, forthwith enter in the register the name mentioned in the
certificate as having been given to the child. (2) The certificate shall be in such Form as the Chief Municipal Officer may,
from time to time, specify, and shall be signed by the parent, or the guardian, of the child or other person proposing the
name of the child to be altered or given.
354.
Correction of errors in registers of births or deaths.
(1)
Any clerical error, which may, at any time, be discovered in a register of births or register of deaths, may be corrected by
any person authorized in this behalf by the Chief Municipal Officer.
(2)
An error of fact or substance in any such register may be corrected by any person authorized as aforesaid by entry in
Page 136/183
----- PAGE 137 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
the margin, without any alteration of the original entry, upon production to the Chief Municipal Officer by the person
requiring such error to be corrected, of a declaration (setting forth the nature of the error and the fact of the case) on
oath made before a Magistrate, by the person required by this Act to give information concerning the birth or death with
reference to which the error has been made or, in default of such person, by a person having knowledge of the case.
(3)
Except as provided in sub-section (2), no alteration shall be made in any such register.
355.
Information of births.
- It shall be the duty of the father or the mother of every child born in the municipal area and, in default of the father or
the mother, of any relation, of the child living in the same premises and, in default of such relation, of the person having
charge of the child, to give, to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, to the Registrar of the area concerned within
eight days after such birth, information containing such particulars as may be prescribed in this behalf:
Provided that-
(a)
in the case of an illegitimate child, no person shall as father of such child, be required to give information under this Act
concerning the birth of such child, and the Registrar shall not enter in the register the name of any person as father of
such child, except at the joint request of the mother and the person acknowledging himself to be the father of such child,
and such person shall, in such case, sign the register together with the mother,
(b)
a person required to give information only in default of some other person shall not be bound to give such information if
he believed, and had reasonable grounds for believing, that such information had been given, and
(c)
when a child is born in a hospital or a nursing home or a maternity home, none but the officer-in-charge thereof shall be
bound to forward forthwith to the Registrar a report of such birth in such time, and in such Form, as the Chief Registrar
may, from time to time, specify.
356.
Information regarding finding of newborn child.
- In case any newborn child is found exposed, it shall be the duty of any person finding such child or of any person in
whose Charge such child may be placed, to give, to the best of his knowledge and belief, to the Chief Registrar or the
Registrar, within eight days after the finding of such child, such information of the particulars required to be registered
concerning the birth of such child as such person possesses.
357.
Information regarding deaths.
- If shall be the duty of the nearest relation present at the time of the death or in attendance during the last illness of any
person dying in the municipal area and, in default of such relation, of any person present or in attendance at the time of
the death and of the occupier of the premises in which, to his knowledge, the death took place and, in default of the
person as aforesaid, of each inmate of such premises and of the undertaker or other person causing the corpse of the
deceased person to be disposed of, to give, to the best of his knowledge and belief, to the Registrar of the area within
which the death took place information containing such particulars as may be prescribed within twenty-four hours of
such death:
Provided that-
(a)
if the cause of death is known to be a dangerous disease, the information as aforesaid shall be given within twelve hours
of its occurrence, and
(b)
if the death of any person occurs in a hospital or a nursing home or a maternity home, it shall be the duty of none but the
medical officer or other officer-in-charge thereof to forward forthwith a report of such death in such Form as the Chief
Registrar may, from time to time, specify.
358.
Medical Practitioner to certify cause of death.
- In the case of a person who has been attended in his last illness by a duly qualified medical practitioner, such
Page 137/183
----- PAGE 138 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
practitioner shall, within three days of his becoming cognizant of the death of such person, sign and forward to the Chief
Registrar a certificate of the cause of death of such person in such Form as shall, from time to time, be specified by the
Chief Municipal Officer in this behalf, and the cause of death as stated in such certificate shall be entered in the register
together with the name of the certifying medical practitioner.
359.
Duties of police in regard to unclaimed corpses.
- It shall be the duty of the police to convey every unclaimed corpses to a registered burial or burning ground or other
place for disposal of the dead or to a duly appointed mortuary and, thereafter, to inform the Registrar within whose
jurisdiction such corpse was found.
360.
Sextons etc., not to bury etc. corpse.
- A sexton or a keeper of a registered burial or burning ground or other place for disposal of the dead, whether situated
in municipal area or not, shall not bury, burn or otherwise dispose of, or allow to be buried, burnt or otherwise disposed
of, any corpse unless such corpse is accompanied by a certificate in such Form as may be prescribed, and signed by a
Registrar appointed under Section 349 or by a registered medical practitioner or any other medical practitioner
authorized by the State Government in this behalf.
Chapter XXXIX
Disaster Management
361.
Management of natural or technological disasters.
(1)
As far as possible, the Municipality shall in collaboration with the concerned authorities of the Central Government or the
State Government, including the meteorological office, have prepared environmental base maps and impact area
diagrams and shall collect other relevant data and shall take necessary steps for erecting installations and other
accessories required to mitigate the effects of natural or technological disasters.
(2)
The Municipality shall organize emergency operations and promote public awareness in relation to disaster
management.
(3)
The Municipality shall take adequate measures to implement the regulations, if any, made by the planning and urban
development authorities to mitigate earthquake hazards in high seismic zones and to promote citizen awareness in this
regard.
Chapter XL
Industrial Townships
362.
Exclusion of industrial townships from municipal areas.
- No Municipality shall be constituted in such urban area or part thereof as the Governor may, having regard to the size
of the area and the municipal services being provided or proposed to be provided by an industrial establishment in that
area and such other factors as he may deem fit, by notification, specify to be an industrial township.
Part VIII ? Powers, Procedures, Offences and Penalties
Chapter XLI
Procedure
A. Licences and Permissions
363.
Signature, conditions, duration, suspension, revocation, etc., of licences and permission.
(1)
Whenever it is provided in this Act or the Rules or the Regulations made thereunder that a licence or a permission, in
writing, may be granted for any purpose, such licence or permission shall be signed by the Chief Municipal Officer or by
any other officer empowered to grant such licence or permission under this Act or the Rules or the Regulations made
thereunder and shall specify the following particulars in addition to any other particulars required to be specified under
any other provisions of this Act or the Rules or the Regulations made thereunder:-
Page 138/183
----- PAGE 139 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
(a)
the date of the grant of licence or permission,
(b)
the purpose and the period, if any, for which it is granted,
(c)
restrictions or conditions, if any, subject to which it is granted,
(d)
the name and address of the person to whom it is granted, and
(e)
the fee, if any, paid for the licence or the permission.
(2)
Except as otherwise provided in this Act or the Rules or the Regulations made thereunder, for every such licence or
permission, a fee may be charged at such rate as may, from time to time, be fixed by the Municipality, and such fee shall
be payable by the person to whom the licence or the permission is granted.
(3)
Save as otherwise provided in this Act or the Rules or the Regulations made thereunder, any licence or permission
granted under this Act or the Rules or the Regulations made thereunder may, at any time, be suspended or revoked by
the Chief Municipal Officer or the officer by whom it was granted, if he is satisfied that it has been secured by the
grantee through misrepresentation or fraud, or if any of the restrictions or conditions of licence or permission has been
infringed or evaded by the grantee, or if the grantee has been convicted for the contravention of any of the provisions of
this Act or the Rules or the Regulations made thereunder relating to any matter for which the licence or the permission,
as the case may be, was granted:
Provided that-
(a)
before making any order of suspension or revocation, an opportunity shall be given to the grantee of the licence or the
permission to show cause why it should not be suspended or revoked; and
(b)
every such order shall contain a brief statement of the reasons for the suspension or the revocation of the licence or the
permission, as the case may be.
(4)
When any such licence or permission is suspended or revoked, or when the period for which such licence or permission
was granted has expired, the grantee shall, for the purposes of this Act and the Rules and the Regulations made
thereunder, be deemed to be without a licence or permission, as the case may be, until such time as the order
suspending or revoking the licence or the permission, as the case may be, is rescinded or until the licence or the
permission, as the case may be, is renewed.
(5)
Every grantee of any licence or permission granted under this Act shall, at all reasonable times while such licence or
permission, as the case may be, remains in force, if so required by the Chief Municipal Officer or the other officer by
whom it was granted, produce such licence or permission, as the case may be.
B. Entry and Inspection
364.
Power of entry.
- The Chief Municipal Officer or any other officer or employee of the Municipality authorized by the Chief Municipal
Officer in this behalf, or empowered by or under any provision of this Act, may enter into or upon any land or building
with or without assistants or workmen, for the purpose of-
(a)
ascertaining whether in connection with the land or the building there is or has been any contravention of the provisions
of this Act or the Rules or the Regulations made thereunder, or
(b)
ascertaining whether or not circumstances exist which render it necessary for the Chief Municipal Officer or any other
officer or employee of the Municipality authorized by him in this behalf, or empowered by or under any provision of this
Page 139/183
----- PAGE 140 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
Act, to take any action or execute any work under this Act or the Rules or the Regulations made thereunder, or
(c)
taking any action or executing any work authorized or required by or under this Act or the Rules or the Regulations
made thereunder, or
(d)
making such inquiry, inspection, examination, measurement, valuation or survey as may be authorized or required by or
under this Act or as may be necessary for the proper administration of this Act, or
(e)
generally ensuring efficient discharge of the functions by any of the municipal authorities under this Act or the Rules or
the Regulations made thereunder.
365.
Power to enter land or adjoining land in relation to any work.
(1)
The Chief Municipal Officer or any person authorized by him in this behalf, or empowered by or under this Act, may
enter upon any land within fifty metres of any work authorized by or under this Act with or without assistants or workmen,
for the purpose of depositing thereon any soil, gravel, stone or other materials or for obtaining access to such work or for
any other purpose connected with the execution thereof.
(2)
Every person so authorized shall, before entering upon any such land, state the purpose thereof, and shall, if so
required by the owner or the occupier thereof, fence off so much of the land as may be required for such purpose.
(3)
Every person as aforesaid shall, in exercising any power conferred by this Section, do as little damage as may be
necessary, and compensation shall be payable by the Municipality in accordance with the Rules or the Regulations
made under this Act in this behalf to the owner or the occupier of such land or to both for any such damage, whether
permanent or temporary.
366.
Breaking into building.
(1)
It shall be lawful for the Chief Municipal Officer or any person authorized by him in this behalf, or empowered by or
under this Act, to make any entry into any place and to open or cause to be opened any door, gate or other barrier,-
(a)
if he considers the opening thereof necessary for the purpose of such entry, and
(b)
if the owner or the occupier is absent or, being present refuses to open such door, gate or other barrier.
(2)
Before making any entry into any such place or opening or causing to be opened any such door, gate or other barrier,
the Chief Municipal Officer or the person authorized or empowered in this behalf shall call upon two or more respectable
inhabitants of the locality in which the place to be entered into is situated, to witness the entry or the opening and may
issue an order, in writing, to them or any of them so to do.
(3)
A report shall be made to the Empowered Standing Committee, as soon as may be after any entry has been made into
any place or any door, gate or other barrier has been opened under this Section.
367.
Time of making entry.
- Save as otherwise provided in this Act or the Rules or the Regulations made thereunder, no entry authorized under this
Act shall be made except between the hours of sunrise and sunset:
Provided that if the Chief Municipal Officer is satisfied that the erection of any building or the execution of any work has
been commenced or is being carried on in contravention of the provisions of this Act in any premises between the period
of sunset and sunrise, he may, if he considers it necessary so to do, enter such premises during such period
accompanied by a police officer to make an inspection thereof and take such action as may be necessary under this Act.
368.
Page 140/183
----- PAGE 141 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
Consent ordinarily to be obtained.
- Save as otherwise provided in this Act or the Rules or the Regulations made thereunder, no land or building shall be
entered without the consent of the occupier, or if there is no occupier, of the owner thereof, and no such entry shall be
made without giving such occupier or owner, as the case may be, not less than twenty four hours' notice, in writing, of
the intention to make such entry:
Provided that no such notice shall be necessary if the Municipality considers, for reasons to be recorded in writing, that
there is immediate urgency for such entry and the service of a notice, in writing, may defeat its purpose:
Provided further that no such notice shall be necessary, if the land or the building to be entered is a factory or workshop
or trade premises or place used for any of the purposes referred to in Section 285 or a stable for horses or a shed for
cattle or a latrine or urinal or a work under construction, or for the purpose of ascertaining whether any animal intended
for human consumption is slaughtered on such land or in such building in contravention of the provisions of this Act or
the Rules or the Regulations made thereunder.
369.
Regard to be had to social or religious usages.
- When any place used as a human dwelling is entered under this Act, due regard shall be paid to the social and
religious customs and usages of the occupants of the place entered, and no apartment in the actual occupancy of a
female shall be entered or broken open until she has been informed that she is at liberty to withdraw and every
reasonable facility has been afforded to her for withdrawing.
370.
Prohibition of obstruction or molestation in execution of work.
- No person shall obstruct or molest any person authorized or empowered by or under this Act, or with whom the
Municipality or any of the municipal authorities referred to in Section 20 has lawfully contracted, in the execution of his
duty or anything which he is authorized or empowered or required to do by virtue, or in consequence, of any of the
provisions of this Act or the Rules or the Regulations made thereunder, or in fulfilment of his contract, as the case may
be.
C. Public Notices and Advertisements
371.
Public notices how to be made known.
- Every public notice given under this Act or the Rules or the Regulations made thereunder shall be in writing under the
signature of the Chief Municipal Officer or any other officer of the Municipality authorized by him in this behalf, and shall
be widely made known in the locality to be affected thereby by affixing copies thereof in conspicuous public places within
such locality or by publishing the same by advertisement in local newspapers or by such other means as the Chief
Municipal Officer may think fit.
372.
Newspapers in which advertisements or notices to be published.
-  Whenever it is provided by or under this Act or the Rules or the Regulations made thereunder that notice shall be
given by advertisement in local newspapers or a notification or information shall be published in local newspapers, such
notice, notification or information shall be inserted in at least two newspapers of which at least one shall be in the
regional language.
D. Evidence
373.
Proof of consent etc. of Municipality, Empowered Standing Committee, Chief Councillor, Chief Municipal Officer, etc.
- Whenever under this Act or the Rules or the Regulations made thereunder the doing of, or the omission to do, anything
or the validity of anything done depends upon the approval, sanction, consent, concurrence, declaration, opinion or
satisfaction of-
(a)
the Municipality, or
(b)
the Empowered Standing Committee, or
(c)
the Chief Councillor, or
Page 141/183
----- PAGE 142 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
(d)
the Chief Municipal Officer or any other officer of the Municipality, as the case may be, a document, in writing, signed,-
(i)
in the cases referred to in clause (a) and clause (b), by the Municipal Secretary where there is a Municipal Secretary, or
where there is no Municipal Secretary, by the Chief Municipal Officer, and
(ii)
in the cases referred to in clause (c) and clause (d), by the Chief Municipal Officer, purporting to convey or set forth such
approval, sanction, consent, concurrence, declaration, opinion, satisfaction, as the case may be, shall be sufficient
evidence thereof.
E. Notices, etc.
374.
Notices etc. to fix reasonable time.
- Where any notice, bill, order, or requisition, issued or made under this Act or the Rules or the Regulations made
thereunder, requires anything to be done, for the doing of which no time is fixed in this Act or the Rules or the
Regulations made thereunder, such notice, bill, order, or requisition shall specify a reasonable time for doing the same.
375.
Signature on notices etc. may be stamped.
(1)
Every licence, permission, in writing, notice, bill, summons or other document, which is required by this Act or the Rules
or the Regulations made thereunder to bear the signature of the Chief Municipal Officer or any other officer of the
Municipality, shall be deemed to be properly signed if it bears a facsimile of the signature of the Chief Municipal Officer
or such other officer, as the case may be, and stamped thereupon.
(2)
Nothing in sub-section (1) shall be deemed to apply to a cheque drawn upon the Municipal Fund under Section 80.
376.
Notices etc. by whom to be served or issued.
- Every notice, bill, summons, or other document, required by this Act or the Rules or the Regulations made thereunder
to be served upon, or issued to, any person, shall be served or issued by an officer or other employee of the Municipality
or by any person authorized by the Chief Municipal Officer in that behalf.
377.
Service of notices etc.
(1)
Every notice, bill, summons, order, requisition or other document required or authorized by this Act or the Rules or the
Regulations made thereunder to be served or issued by or on behalf of the Municipality or by any of the Municipal
Authorities referred to in Section 20, or by any officer or other employee of the Municipality, shall, save as otherwise
provided in this Act or the Rules or the Regulations made thereunder, be deemed to be duly served,-
(a)
where the person to be served is a company, if the document is addressed to the secretary of the company at its
registered office or at its principal office or place of business and is either-
(i)
sent by registered post, or
(ii)
delivered at the registered office or at the principal office or place of business of the company, or
(b)
where the person to be served is a partnership, if the document is addressed to the partnership at its principal place of
business, identifying it by the name or style under which its business is carried on, and is either-
(i)
sent by registered post, or
(ii)
delivered at the said place of business, or
(c)
Page 142/183
----- PAGE 143 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
where the person to be served is a public body or a Municipality, or a society or other body, if the document is
addressed to the secretary, treasurer or other officer of such public body, Municipality, society, or other body at its
principal office, and is either,-
(i)
sent by registered post, or
(ii)
delivered at that office, and
(d)
in any other case, if the document is addressed to the person to be served, and
(i)
is given or tendered to him, or
(ii)
if such person cannot be found, is affixed on some conspicuous part of his last known place of residence or business, if
within the municipal area, or is given or tendered to some adult member of his family, or is affixed on some conspicuous
part of the land or building, if any, to which it relates, or
(iii)
is sent by registered post to such person.
(2)
Any document, which is required or authorized to be served on the owner or the occupier of any land or building, may be
addressed to "the owner" or "the occupier", as the case may be, of such land or building (naming such land or building)
without further name or description, and shall be deemed to be duly served,-
(a)
if the document so addressed is sent or delivered in accordance with clause (d) of sub-section (1), or
(b)
if the document or a copy thereof so addressed, is delivered to some person on the land or the building or, where there
is no such person to whom it can be delivered, is affixed to some conspicuous part of such land or building.
(3)
Where a document is served on a partnership under this Section, the document shall be deemed to be duly served on
each partner.
(4)
For the purpose of enabling any document to be served on the owner of any premises, the Chief Municipal Officer may,
by notice, in writing, require the occupier of such premises to state the name and address of the owner thereof.
(5)
Where the person on whom a document is to be served is a minor, the service upon his guardian or any adult member
of his family shall be deemed to be service upon the minor.
(6)
Nothing in Section 375 or Section 376 or in this Section shall apply to any summons issued under this Act by any court.
Explanation.- For the purpose of this Section, a servant shall not be deemed to be a member of the family.
F. Enforcement of Orders to Execute Works etc.
378.
Time for complying with requisition or order, and power of Chief Municipal Officer to enforce requisition or order on
default.
(1)
When, under this Act or the Rules or the Regulations made thereunder, any requisition or order is made by a notice, in
writing, issued to any person or persons by any Municipal Authority or any officer of the Municipality, such authority or
officer shall specify in such notice such period within which-
(a)
such requisition or order shall be complied with, and
(b)
any objection thereto, in writing, shall be received by such authority or officer, as such authority or officer may consider
reasonable.
Page 143/183
----- PAGE 144 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
(2)
If any such requisition or order or any portion thereof is not complied with within the period specified in the notice under
sub-section (1), the Chief Municipal Officer may, subject to the provisions of Section 435 and such Regulations as may
be made by the Municipality in this behalf, take such measures, or cause such measures to be taken, as may, in his
opinion, be necessary for causing due compliance with such requisition or order, and, except where otherwise expressly
provided in this Act or the Rules or the Regulations made thereunder, the expenses, if any, incurred by such authority or
officer in causing such compliance shall be paid by the person or persons to whom such notice is issued.
(3)
The Chief Municipal Officer may take any scheme, execute any work, or cause anything to be done under this Section,
notwithstanding any prosecution or punishment or liability to punishment of any person under this Act or the Rules or the
Regulations made thereunder for his failure to comply with such requisition or order.
379.
Submission of objections to comply with notice.
(1)
Any person who has been served with a notice under sub-section (1) of Section 377 may, within such period as is
specified in such notice, deliver to the municipal authority or the officer or the Municipality, as the case may be, any
objection, in writing, setting forth the objections which he may desire to state for withdrawal or modification of such
notice.
(2)
Every such objection shall be placed before the Chief Municipal Officer for determination and, pending such
determination, compliance with any requisition or order in accordance with such notice shall be stayed.
(3)
the Chief Municipal Officer or, if he so directs, any other officer of the Municipality of such rank as may be specified by
him, other than an officer who has issued such notice, shall, after hearing the person concerned or his agent duly
authorized by him, in writing, in this behalf and after considering the circumstances of the case, make such order, either
confirming or modifying or cancelling the notice, as he thinks fit.
(4)
(a)
Where the Chief Municipal Officer or the other officer of the Municipality referred to in sub-section (3) makes an order
under that sub-section, either confirming or modifying the notice, he may, if he thinks fit,-
(i)
direct that portion of the expenses, if any, to be incurred in complying with the notice as confirmed or modified shall be
borne by the Municipality, and
(ii)
fix a time within which the notice so confirmed shall be complied with.
(b)
If the notice as confirmed or modified is not complied with by such person within the time fixed under sub-clause (ii) of
clause (a), the Chief Municipal Officer shall take such measures, or cause such work to be executed, or such thing to be
done, as may, in his opinion, be necessary for causing due compliance with such notice, and the expenses, if any,
incurred by the Chief Municipal Officer in this behalf shall be payable to the Chief Municipal Officer on demand and, if
not paid within ten days of such demand, such be recoverable as an arrear of tax under this Act.
G. Recovery of Expenses
380.
Power of the Municipality to enter into agreement for payment of expenses in instalments.
(1)
When, under this Act or the Rules or the Regulations made thereunder, the expenses of any measure taken or work
executed or thing done by or under the order of any Municipal Authority or any officer of the Municipality or any
Magistrate are payable by any person, the Chief Municipal Officer may, if he thinks fit and with the approval of the
Empowered Standing Committee, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Act or the Rules or the
Regulations made thereunder, enter into an agreement with such person for payment of such expenses in such
instalments, and at such intervals, as will secure the recovery of the whole amount due with interest thereon at such rate
Page 144/183
----- PAGE 145 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
of interest as may be determined by the State Government from time to time within such period, not exceeding six years,
as the Municipality may determine.
(2)
Every such agreement shall provide for adequate security against the whole amount due from such person.
381.
Power of the Municipality to declare certain expenses to be improvement expenses.
(1)
If any expenses are to be recovered or are incurred on account of any work mentioned-
(a)
in Section 198 and Section 200, or
(b)
in the Rules or the Regulations made under this Act, the Municipality may, if it thinks fit, declare such expenses to be
improvement expenses.
(2)
A register shall be maintained by the Chief Municipal Officer showing all expenses declared to be improvement
expenses under this Section, and such register shall be open to inspection by any person upon payment of such fee as
may, from time to time, be determined by the Empowered Standing Committee.
382.
Improvement expenses, how recoverable and by whom payable.
(1)
Any improvement expenses under Section 380 shall be a charge on the premises in respect of which, or for the benefit
of which, such expenses are incurred, and shall be recoverable in such instalments, and at such intervals, as may be
sufficient to discharge such expenses with interest therein at such reasonable rate as may be determined by the
Municipality from time to time, and within such period, not exceeding thirty years, as the Municipality may in each case
determine.
(2)
The improvement expenses shall be payable by the owner or the occupier of the premises on which such expenses are
chargeable.
383.
Recovery of improvement expenses paid by occupier.
-  Notwithstanding anything contained in Section 381, when the occupier of any premises pays any instalment of
improvement expenses, he shall, subject to any agreement to the contrary, if any, between himself and the owner of
such premises, be entitled to deduct the amount of such instalment from the rent payable by him to such owner or to
recover such amount from such owner in pursuance of any order of a court of competent jurisdiction.
384.
Right of the owner or occupier to redeem charge for improvement expenses.
- At any time before the expiration of the period for payment of any improvement expenses, the owner or the occupier of
the premises on which such expenses are chargeable may redeem such charge by paying to the Municipality such part
of such expenses as is still payable.
385.
Execution of work by occupier on the failure of owner.
- Whenever the owner of any land or building fails to execute any work which he is required to execute under this Act or
the Rules or the Regulations made thereunder, the occupier, if any, of such land or building may, with the approval of
the Chief Municipal Officer, execute such work and shall, subject to any agreement to the contrary between himself and
the owner of such land or building, be entitled to recover from the owner the reasonable expenses incurred by him in the
execution of the work and may deduct any amount thereof from the rent payable by him to such owner.
386.
Relief to receivers, agents and trustees.
(1)
Whenever under this Act or the Rules or the Regulation made thereunder, any person, by reason of his-
(a)
Page 145/183
----- PAGE 146 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
receiving the rent of any immovable property as receiver or agent or trustee of such property, or
(b)
being such receiver of agent or trustee, would receive the rent if such property were let to a tenant, is bound to
discharge any obligation imposed on the owner of such property but has not at his disposal funds, belonging or payable
to such owner, sufficient for the purpose of discharging such obligation, he shall, within a period of six weeks from the
date of service upon him by any Municipal Authority or officer of the Municipality empowered in this behalf under this
Act, or any notice requiring him to discharge such obligation, apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for leave to raise
such funds or for such directions as he may consider necessary for such purpose.
(2)
If such receiver or agent or trustee fails to apply to a court of competent jurisdiction under sub-section (1) or, after such
court has granted leave to raise funds or has issued directions, fails to discharge such obligation or to comply with such
directions within twelve months of such leave or such directions, he shall be personally liable to discharge such
obligation.
H. Payment of Compensation
387.
General power of the Municipality to pay compensation.
- In any case not otherwise expressly provided for in this Act or the Rules or the Regulations made thereunder, the Chief
Municipal Officer may, with the prior approval of the Empowered Standing Committee, pay compensation to any person
who sustains damage by reason of the exercise of any of the powers vested by this Act or the Rules or the Regulations
made thereunder on the Chief Municipal Officer or on any other officer or other employee of the Municipality.
388.
Compensation to be paid for damage to property of Municipality.
(1)
Any person who has been convicted of any offence under this Act or the Rules or the Regulations made thereunder
shall, without prejudice to any punishment to which he may be subject, be liable to pay such compensation for any
damage to any property of the Municipality resulting from such offence as the appropriate Municipal Authority may
consider reasonable.
(2)
In the case of any dispute regarding the amount of compensation under sub-section (1), such amount shall, on an
application, in writing, made by such person to the Magistrate who convicts such person of such offence, be determined
by such Magistrate, and, if the amount of compensation so determined is not paid by such person, such amount shall be
recovered under a warrant from such Magistrate as if it were a fine imposed by him on the person liable thereof.
I. Recovery of Expenses or Compensation in Case of Disputes
389.
Reference by Municipality to Civil Court in certain cases of recovery of expenses.
(1)
If, in respect of any expenses referred to in Section 380, any dispute arises, the Chief Municipal Officer shall refer such
dispute to the Civil Court having jurisdiction for determination.
(2)
Upon such reference, the Chief Municipal Officer shall defer further proceedings for the recovery of such expenses and
shall recover only such amount, if any, as may be determined by the Civil Court having jurisdiction.
390.
Application to Civil Court in certain cases of payment of expenses or compensation.
- Save as otherwise provided'in this Act or the Rules or the Regulations made thereunder or in any other law for the time
being in force, in the case of any dispute in respect of any expenses or any compensation payable to any person by any
municipal authority or any officer or other employee of the Municipality or any other person under this Act or the Rules or
the Regulations made thereunder, the amount of such expenses or such compensation shall be determined by the Civil
Court having jurisdiction at any time within one year from the date of such expenses or such compensation first
becoming due.
391.
Recovery of expenses or compensation determined under Section 390.
Page 146/183
----- PAGE 147 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
- If the amount of any expenses or compensation determined under Section 390, is not paid on demand, such amount
shall be recoverable as if the same were due under a decree of the Civil Court having jurisdiction or in the manner
provided in Chapter XIX.
392.
Recovery of expenses or compensation by suit in court.
- Notwithstanding anything contained in Section 391, any expenses or compensation determined under Section 390 may
be recovered by a suit brought in a court of competent jurisdiction.
J. Recovery of Certain Dues
393.
Recovery of certain dues of Municipality.
- Save as otherwise provided in this Act or the Rules or the Regulations made thereunder, any sum due to the
Municipality on account of any charge, cost, expense, fee, rate or rent or on any other account under this Act or the
Rules or the Regulations made thereunder shall be recoverable from the person from whom such sum is due as if it
were property tax.
K. Obstruction of Owner by Occupier
394.
Application to Civil Court by owner when occupier prevents from complying with Act etc.
(1)
Any owner of any land or building may, if he is prevented by the occupier thereof from complying with any provision of
this Act or the Rules or the Regulations made thereunder or any requirement under any such provision in respect of
such land or building, apply to the Civil Court having jurisdiction within the time fixed for compliance with such provision
or requirement, and, thereupon, such owner shall not be liable for his failure to comply with such provision or
requirement within the time fixed for such compliance.
(2)
On receipt of any application under sub-section (1), the Civil Court may make an order, in writing, requiring the occupier
of the land or the building, as the case may be, to afford all reasonable facilities to the owner for complying with the
provision or the requirement as aforesaid, and may also, if it thinks fit, direct that the costs of such application and order
shall be paid by the occupier.
(3)
The occupier shall, within eight days from the date of any order under sub-section (2), afford all reasonable facilities to
the owner in compliance with such order. In the event of any continued refusal by the occupier to do so, the owner shall
be discharged, during the continuance of such refusal, from any liability which he would otherwise have incurred by
reason of his failure to comply with the provision or the requirement as aforesaid.
L. Proceedings before the Civil Court
395.
Procedure in Civil Court.
(1)
Whenever under this Act any application, appeal or reference is made to a Civil Court having jurisdiction, such Civil
Court may, for the purpose of any inquiry or proceeding in connection with such application, appeal or reference,
summon and enforce the attendance of witnesses and compel them to give evidence or compel the production of
documents by the same means, and, as far as possible, in the same manner, as is provided in the Code of Civil
Procedure, 1908, and, in all matters relating to any such enquiry or proceedings, the Court shall be guided generally by
the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, so far as such provisions are applicable to such inquiry or
proceeding.
(2)
If, in any such inquiry or proceeding, any person summoned to appear before the Court fails to do so, the Court may
proceed with such inquiry or proceeding in his absence.
(3)
The cost of every such inquiry or proceeding shall be payable by such person or persons, and in such proportion or
proportions, as the Court may direct, and, the amount of such cost shall be recoverable as if the same were due under a
decree of the Court.
Page 147/183
----- PAGE 148 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
396.
Fees in proceeding before Civil Court.
(1)
The Municipality may specify a fee-
(a)
for making under this Act any application, appeal or reference to a Civil Court having jurisdiction, or
(b)
for issue of any summons or other process in any inquiry or proceeding in connection with such application, appeal or
reference:
Provided that the fee, if any, under clause (a) shall not, in the case where the value of any claim is capable of being
estimated in money, exceed the fee leviable in a similar case under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908.
(2)
No application, appeal or reference under this Act shall be received by a Civil Court having jurisdiction until the fee, if
any, under clause (a) of sub-section (1) has been paid:
Provided that the Civil Court may, in any case in which it thinks fit so to do,-
(i)
receive such application, appeal or reference, or
(ii)
issue summons or other process, without payment of such fee.
397.
Repayment of half of fees on settlement before hearing.
- Whenever under this Act any application, appeal or reference to a Civil Court having jurisdiction is settled by
agreement between the parties concerned before hearing of such application, appeal or reference, half the amount of
any fee paid by any of such parties under sub-section (2) of Section 396 shall be repaid by the Civil Court to such party.
M. Municipal Magistrates and Proceeding before Municipal Magistrates
398.
Municipal Magistrate.
(1)
The State Government may, in consultation with the High Court of the State, designate one or more Judicial Magistrates
for the trial of offences against-
(a)
this Act, and
(b)
the Rules and the Regulations made thereunder, and may prescribe the time within which, and the place at which, such
Judicial Magistrate or Judicial Magistrates shall sit for such trial of offences.
(2)
Every such Judicial Magistrate shall exercise all other powers, and discharge all other functions, of a Magistrate as
provided in this Act.
(3)
Every Judicial Magistrate appointed under sub-section (1) shall be called Municipal Magistrate.
(4)
Each Municipal Magistrate shall have jurisdiction over such municipal area or areas as may be specified by the State
Government by notification.
(5)
The procedure in the court of a Municipal Magistrate shall, except where otherwise specifically provided in this Act, be in
accordance with the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973.
399.
Certain offences to be cognizable.
- The offences mentioned in Section 313, Section 323, Section 324, Section 326, Section 370 and Section 435 shall be
cognizable within the meaning of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973.
400.
Page 148/183
----- PAGE 149 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
Power of Municipal Magistrate to hear cases in absence of accused summoned to appear.
- If, in any case, any person, who is summoned to appear before a Municipal Magistrate to answer any charge of an
offence under this Act or the Rules or the Regulations made thereunder, fails to appear on the date and at the time and
the place mentioned in the summons issued in this behalf or on any subsequent date to which the hearing of such case
is adjourned, the Municipal Magistrate may, if-
(a)
service of the summons is, to his satisfaction, proved to have been effected, and
(b)
no sufficient cause is shown for non-appearance of such person, hear and determine such case in the absence of such
person.
401.
Limitation of time for prosecution.
- No person shall be liable to any punishment for an offence under this Act or the Rules or the Regulations made
thereunder unless a complaint of such offence is made before a Municipal Magistrate within six months next after-
(a)
the date of commission of such offence, or
(b)
the date on which the commission or the continuance of such offence is first brought to the notice of the Municipality or
the Chief Municipal Officer.
402.
Complaint regarding nuisance and removal thereof.
(1)
The Chief Municipal Officer or any other officer of the Municipality authorized by him in this behalf, in writing, or any
person who resides or owns property in the municipal area, may complain of the existence of any nuisance to a
Municipal Magistrate.
(2)
Upon receipt of any such complaint, the Municipal Magistrate, after making such inquiry as he considers necessary,
may, if he thinks fit, by an order, in writing,-
(a)
direct the person responsible for such nuisance or the owner of the land or the building on which such nuisance exists to
take, within such period as may be specified in the order, such measures for abating, preventing, removing or remedying
such nuisance as may appear to the Municipal Magistrate to be practicable and reasonable, and may direct the Chief
Municipal Officer to enforce any of the provisions of this Act or the Rules or the Regulations made thereunder for
prevention of such nuisance, and
(b)
further direct the person held responsible for the nuisance to pay to the complainant such reasonable cost of the
complaint (including compensation for loss of time in prosecuting such complaint) as the Municipal Magistrate may
determine:
Provided that where, in the opinion of the Municipal Magistrate, immediate action to prevent the nuisance is necessary,
he may dispense with the inquiry and make forthwith such order as he considers necessary.
(3)
If any person responsible for any nuisance or any owner of any land or building on which any nuisance exist fails to
comply with any order under subsection (2) within the period specified in the order, the Chief Municipal Officer may, on
the expiry of such period, proceed to take necessary action in accordance with the order, or may take such other
measures to abate, prevent, remove or remedy the nuisance as he may consider necessary, and the cost of any such
action shall be recovered from such person or such owner, as the case may be.
403.
Power of Municipal Magistrate to direct payment of fine and demolition of unlawful works.
(1)
If, under this Act or the Rules or the Regulations made thereunder, any person is, in respect of any unlawful work, liable-
(a)
Page 149/183
----- PAGE 150 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
to pay any fine, and also
(b)
to demolish such work, the Municipal Magistrate having jurisdiction may, in his discretion, direct such person to pay the
fine and also to demolish the work.
(2)
All sums realized on account of fine under this Section shall be credited to the Municipal Fund.
N. Legal Proceedings
404.
Power to institute etc. legal proceeding and to obtain legal advice.
- The Chief Municipal Officer may-
(a)
take, or withdraw from, proceeding against any person who is charged with-
(i)
any offence under this Act or any rules or regulations made thereunder, or
(ii)
any offence which affects, or is likely to affect, any property or interest of the Municipality or the due administration of
this Act, or
(iii)
committing any nuisance whatsoever, or
(b)
contest or compromise any appeal against assessment of any tax or rate, or
(c)
take, or withdraw from, or compromise, any proceeding under this Act for the recovery of expenses or compensation
claimed to be due to the Municipality, or
(d)
withdraw or compromise any claim for a sum not exceeding one thousand rupees against any person, or
(e)
defend any suit or other legal proceeding brought against the Municipality or against any municipal authority or any
officer or other employee of the Municipality in respect of anything done or omitted to be done by the Municipality or
such municipal authority or officer or other employee under this Act or the rules or the regulations made thereunder in
the official capacity, or
(f)
compromise, with the approval of the Empowered Standing Committee or, where there is no Empowered Standing
Committee, with the approval of the Municipality, any claim, suit or other legal proceeding brought against the
Municipality or any municipal authority or any officer or other employee of the Municipality in respect of anything done or
omitted to be done under any of the foregoing clauses of this Section, or
(g)
withdraw from, or compromise, any claim against any person in respect of a penalty payable under any contract entered
into with such person by the Chief Municipal Officer on behalf of the Municipality, or
(h)
institute or prosecute any suit or other legal proceeding or, with the approval of the Empowered Standing Committee, or
where there is no Empowered Standing Committee, with the approval of the Municipality, withdraw from, or compromise,
any suit or claim, other than a claim referred to in clause (d), instituted or made, as the case may be, in the name of the
Municipality or the Chief Municipal Officer, or
(i)
obtain, for any of the purposes mentioned in the foregoing provisions of this Section or for securing lawful exercise or
discharge of any power or duty vested in, or imposed upon, any Municipal Authority or any officer or other employee of
the Municipality, such legal advice and assistance as he may, from time to time, consider necessary or expedient, or as
he may be required by the Municipality or the Empowered Standing Committee, to obtain.
405.
Notice, limitation, and tender of amends in suits against Municipality etc.
Page 150/183
----- PAGE 151 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
(1)
No suit shall be instituted in any court having jurisdiction against any Municipal Authority or any officer or other
employee of the Municipality or any person acting under the direction of any municipal authority or any officer or other
employee of the Municipality in respect of anything done, or purported to be done, under this Act or the Rules or the
Regulations made thereunder, until the expiration of one month next after a notice, in writing, has been delivered or left
at the office of such authority or at the office or the residence of such officer or other employee or person, stating-
(a)
the cause of action,
(b)
the name and residence of the intending plaintiff, and
(c)
the relief which such plaintiff claims.
(2)
Every such suit shall be commenced within four months next after accrual of the cause of action, and the plaint therein
shall contain a statement that a notice has been delivered or left as required under sub-section (1).
(3)
If the Municipal Authority, at the office of which, or the officer or the other employee of the Municipality or the person
acting under the direction of any Municipal Authority or any officer or other employee of the Municipality, at the office or
the residence of whom, a notice has been delivered or left under sub-section (1), satisfies the court having jurisdiction
that the relief claimed was tendered to the plaintiff before the institution of the suit, the suit shall be dismissed.
(4)
Nothing in the foregoing provisions of this Section shall apply to any suit instituted under Section 38 of the Specific
Relief Act, 1963.
406.
Indemnity.
- No suit shall be maintainable against any municipal authority or any officer or other employee of the Municipality or any
person acting under the direction of any Municipal Authority or any officer or other employee of the Municipality or a
Magistrate in respect of anything done lawfully and in good faith and with due care and attention under this Act or the
Rules or the Regulations made thereunder.
O. Powers and duties of Police Officers
407.
Co-operation of Police.
(1)
Every Police-Officer-in-charge of police station within the jurisdiction of the Municipality and every officer, and every
other employee, subordinate to him, if any, (hereinafter referred to in this Section as the designated authority), shall-
(a)
co-operate with the Municipality for carrying into effect, and enforcing, the provisions of this Act and for maintaining good
order in and outside the municipal area, and
(b)
assist the Municipality or the Chief Municipal Officer or any other officer or other employee of the Municipality in carrying
out any order made by a Magistrate under this Act.
(2)
It shall be the duty of every Police Officer-
(i)
to communicate without delay to the Chief Municipal Officer or any other officer of the Municipality any information which
he received in respect of any design to commit, or any commission of, any offence under this Act or the Rules or the
Regulations made thereunder, and
(ii)
to assist the Chief Municipal Officer or any other officer or other employee of the Municipality requiring his aid for the
lawful exercise of any power vested in the Municipality or the Chief Municipal Officer or such other officer or other
employee under this Act or the Rules or the Regulations made thereunder.
Page 151/183
----- PAGE 152 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
(3)
Any Officer or other employee of the Municipality may, when empowered by a general or special order of the
Inspector-General of Police, or the Commissioner of Police, if any, on the recommendation of the Municipality in that
behalf, exercise the powers of a police officer for such of the purposes of this Act as may be specified in such general or
special order.
(4)
The District Magistrate, the Sub-Divisional Magistrate, and the officers under them and the other employees subordinate
to them shall cooperate with the Municipal Authorities in the performance of their duties under this Act.
408.
Power of police to arrest offenders.
(1)
Any police officer may arrest any person who commits, in his view, any offence under this Act or the Rules or the
Regulations made thereunder, provided that such person declines to give, on demand, his name and address or gives a
name or address which the police officer has reason to believe to be false.
(2)
No person so arrested shall be detained in custody after his correct name and address are ascertained or without the
order of a Municipal Magistrate for a period longer than twenty-four hours from the time of arrest, exclusive of the period
necessary for the journey from the place of arrest to the court of such Municipal Magistrate.
(3)
On an application, in writing, of the Chief Municipal Officer or any other officer authorized by him in this behalf, any
police officer above the rank of a constable shall arrest any person who obstructs the Chief Municipal Officer or any
other officer or other employee of the Municipality in the exercise of any power or performance of any function or
discharge of any duty under this Act or the Rules or the Regulations made thereunder.
(4)
On an application, in writing, of the Chief Municipal Officer or any other officer, not below the rank of an officer
authorized in this behalf by the Chief Municipal Officer under sub-section (3), any police officer above the rank of a
constable shall arrest any person who, in violation of the order referred to in subsection (1) of Section 323, commences
the erection of building, or execution of any work, referred to in that sub-section or carries on such erection or such
execution.
P. General Provisions
409.
Validity of notice and other document.
- No notice, order, requisition, licence or permission, in writing, or any other document, issued under this Act, shall be
invalid merely by reason of defect of Form.
410.
Admissibility of document or entry as evidence.
- A copy of any receipt, application, plan, notice, order, or other document or any entry in a register in the possession of
any Municipal Authority shall, if duly certified by the legal keeper thereof or other person authorized by the Chief
Municipal Officer in this behalf, be admissible in evidence of the existence of the document or entry, and shall be
admitted as evidence of the matters and transactions therein recorded, in every case where, and to the same extent to
which, the original document or entry would, if produced, have been admissible to prove such matters and transactions.
411.
Evidence of officer or employee of the Municipality.
- No officer or other employee of the Municipality shall, in any legal proceeding to which the Municipality is not a party,
be required to produce any register or document, the contents of which can be proved under Section 395 by a certified
copy, or to appear as a witness to prove any matter or transaction recorded therein, save by an order made by a court
having jurisdiction.
412.
Prohibition against obstruction of Chief Councillor or any Municipal Authority etc.
- No person shall obstruct or molest-
(a)
Page 152/183
----- PAGE 153 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
any Municipal Authority, or the Chief Councillor, or the Deputy Chief Councillor, or a Councillor, or the Chief Municipal
Officer, or any employee of the Municipality or any person employed by the Municipality, or
(b)
any person, authorized or empowered by or under this Act or with whom the Municipality or any of the Municipal
Authorities has lawfully entered into a contract, in the performance of is or its duty, or in the execution of his or its work,
or anything which he or it is empowered or required to do by virtue, or in consequence, of any provision of this Act or the
Rules or the Regulations made thereunder, or in the fulfilment of the contract, as the case may be.
413.
Prohibition against removal of mark.
- No person shall remove any mark set up for the purpose of indicating any level or direction incidental to the execution
of any work authorized by this Act or the Rules or the Regulations made thereunder.
414.
Prohibition against removal or obliteration of notice.
- No person shall, without authority, remove, destroy, deface or otherwise obliterate any notice exhibited by or under the
orders of the Municipality, or any Municipal Authority, or any officer or other employee of the Municipality specified by
the Chief Municipal Officer in this behalf.
415.
Prohibition against unauthorized dealings with public place or materials.
- No person shall, without authority in that behalf, remove earth, sand or other material from, or deposit any matter in, or
make any encroachment on, any land vested in the Municipality, or in any way obstruct such land.
416.
Liability for loss, waste or misapplication of money or property of the Municipality.
(1)
Every person shall be liable for the loss, waste, or misapplication of any money or other property, owned by, or vested
in, the Municipality, if such loss, waste or misapplication is a direct consequences of his neglect or misconduct in the
performance of his duty, and he may, after being given an opportunity by a notice served in the manner provided for the
service or summons in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, to show cause by a representation, in writing or oral, why he
should not be required to make good the loss, by order, be surcharged with the value of such property or the amount of
such money by the Director of Local Bodies, and if the amount is not paid within one month of the expiry of the period of
appeal specified in sub-section (2), it shall be recoverable as an arrear of tax leviable under this Act.
(2)
The person, against whom an order under sub-section (1) is made, may, within thirty days of the date of communication
of the order, appeal to the State Government, and the State Government may confirm, modify or disallow the surcharge:
Provided that no person shall, under this Section, be called upon to show cause after the expiry of a period of four years,
or, in the case of a Councillor, after a period of one year, from the occurrence of such loss or waste or misapplication.
417.
Councillors and officers and other employees of the Municipality to be public servants.
- Every Councillor, the Chief Municipal Officer, and every other officer or other employee of the Municipality shall be
deemed to be public servants within the meaning of Section 21 of the Indian Penal Code.
418.
Other laws not to be disregarded.
- Save as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, nothing contained in this Act shall be construed to authorize the
Municipality or any Municipal Authority or any officer or other employee of the Municipality to disregard any law for the
time being in force.
Chapter XLII
Rules and Regulations
419.
Power to make Rules.
(1)
The State Government may, by notification, and subject to the condition of previous publication, make Rules for carrying
out the purposes of this Act.
Page 153/183
----- PAGE 154 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
(2)
Any Rule made under this Act may provide that any contravention thereof shall be punishable with fine which may
extend to five thousand rupees.
(3)
Every Rule made under this Act shall be laid as soon as may be after it is made before the State Legislature while it is in
session for a total period of ten days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions,
and if, before the expiry of the session in which it is so laid or the successive sessions aforesaid, the State Legislature
agrees in making any modification in the Rules or the State Legislature agrees that the Rules should not be made, the
rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be, so, however, that such
modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done or omitted to be done
under that Rule.
420.
Power to amend Schedule.
-  The State Government may, by notification, add to, amend or alter the Schedule to this Act.
421.
Power to make Regulations.
- The Municipality may, from time to time, make regulations, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or the Rules
made thereunder for the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of this Act.
422.
Conditions precedent to making of Regulations.
- The power to make Regulations under this Act is subject to the condition of the Regulations being made after previous
publication and to the following further conditions, namely:-
(a)
such draft of regulations shall not be further proceeded with until a period of one month has expired from the date of
such publication,
(b)
for not less than one month during such period, a printed copy of such draft shall be kept in the office of the Municipality
for public inspection, and any person shall be permitted at any reasonable time to peruse such draft, free of charge, and
(c)
printed copies of such draft shall be obtainable by any person requiring such draft on payment of such fee as may be
fixed by the Empowered Standing Committee.
423.
Regulations to be subject to approval of the State Government.
(1)
No Regulation made by the Municipality under this Act shall have any effect until it has been approved by the State
Government and published in the Official Gazette.
(2)
Before approving any Regulations, the State Government may make such changes therein as may appear to it to be
necessary.
424.
Power of the State Government to cancel or modify Regulations.
(1)
If the State Government is, at any time, of opinion that any Regulation should be cancelled or modified, either wholly or
in part, it shall cause the reasons for such opinion to be communicated to the Municipality, and shall specify a
reasonable period within which the Municipality may make such representation with regard thereto as it may think fit.
(2)
After receipt and consideration of any such representation or if, in the meantime, no such representation is received,
after the expiry of the period as aforesaid, the State Government may, at any time, by notification, cancel or modify such
regulation either wholly or in part.
(3)
The cancellation or modification of any Regulation under sub-section (2) shall take effect from such date as the State
Page 154/183
----- PAGE 155 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
Government may specify in the notification under that sub-section or, if no such date is specified, from the date of
publication of such notification:
Provided that such cancellation or modification shall not affect anything done or suffered or omitted to be done under
such Regulation before such date.
(4)
Any notification under sub-section (2) shall also be published in local newspapers.
425.
Supplemental provisions respecting Regulations.
- Any Regulation, which may be made by the Municipality under this Act, may be made by the State Government within
one year from the date of commencement of this Act, and any Regulation so made may be altered or rescinded by the
Municipality with the approval of the State Government.
426.
Penalty for breach of Regulation.
(1)
Any Regulation made under this Act may provide that a contravention thereof shall be punishable-
(a)
with fine which may extend to two thousand and five hundred rupees, or
(b)
with fine which may extend to two thousand and five hundred rupees and, in the case of a continuing contravention, with
an additional fine which may extend to two hundred and fifty rupees for every day during which such contravention
continues after conviction for the first of such contravention, or
(c)
with fine which may extend to two hundred and fifty rupees for every day during which the contravention continues, after
the receipt by the person contravening the Regulation of a notice requiring such person to discontinue such
contravention from the Chief Municipal Officer or any other officer of the Municipality, duly authorized in that behalf.
(2)
Any such Regulation may also provide that a person contravening that regulation shall be required to remedy, so far as
lies in his power, the mischief, if any, caused by such contravention.
427.
Rules and Regulations to be available for inspection and purchase.
(1)
A copy of all Rules and Regulations made under this Act shall be kept at the office of the Municipality and shall, during
office hours, be open, free of charge, to inspection by any inhabitant of the municipal area.
(2)
Copies of such Rules and Regulations shall also be kept at the office of the Municipality and shall be sold to the public at
such price as the Empowered Standing Committee may determine.
428.
Doubts as to powers, duties or functions of Municipal Authorities.
-  If any doubt arises as to the Municipal Authority to which any particular power, duty or function appertains, the Chief
Councillor shall refer the matter to the State Government, and the decision of the State Government thereon shall be
final.
Chapter XLIII
Offences and Penalties
429.
Punishment for certain offences.
- Whoever-
(a)
contravenes any provision of any of the Sections, sub-sections, clauses, provisos or any other provision of this Act, or
(b)
fails to comply with any order lawfully given to him or any requisition lawfully made upon him under any of the said
Sections, sub-sections, clauses, provisos or other provisions, shall be punishable-
Page 155/183
----- PAGE 156 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
(i)
with fine which may extend to rupees five thousand, or with imprisonment which may extend to six months, or both:
(ii)
in the case of continuing contravention or failure, with an additional fine which may extend to rupees one hundred for
every day during which such contravention or failure continues after conviction for the first such contravention or failure
subject to a maximum of rupees five thousand.
430.
Punishment for acquiring share or interest etc. with Municipality.
-  Any Councillor who knowingly acquires, directly or indirectly, any share or interest in any contract made with, or any
work done for, the Municipality except as a shareholder (other than a Director) in an incorporated company or as a
member of a co-operative society shall be deemed to have committed the offence punishable under Section 168 of the
Indian Penal Code.
431.
Fine for not paying tax under Chapter XVII.
- If any person erects, exhibits, fixes or retains any advertisement referred to in chapter XVII, without paying any tax
under that chapter, he shall be punished with fine which-shall not be less than an amount equal to two times of such tax
depending upon the gravity of the breach may extend upto an amount equal to five times the amount payable as such
tax.
432.
Fine for putting building to any use other than that for which a licence has been granted.
- When any premises is used or is permitted to be used by any person for any purpose other than that for which a
licence has been granted under sub-section (1) of Section 398 or as a stable or cattle-shed or cow-house, then such
person shall, without prejudice to any other penalty to which he may be subject, be liable to a fine which may extend, in
the case of a masonry building, to two hundred and fifty rupees and, in the case of a hut, to twenty-five rupees, and, and
in the case of continuance of such use, to a further fine which may extend, in the case of a masonry building, to fifty
rupees and, in the case of a hut, to five rupees for each day during which such use continues after the first day,
433.
Penalty for obstructing contractor.
- Whoever obstructs or molests any person with whom the Municipality has entered into a contract for execution of any
work under this Act shall, on conviction, be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to two months or
with fine which may extend to two hundred rupees.
434.
Penalty for causing damage to property belonging to Municipality.
- No person shall cause any damage to any property belonging to the Municipality. Any person causing any damage to
any property belonging to the Municipality shall, on conviction, be punished with fine which may extend to one thousand
rupees.
435.
Encroachment on streets.
- No person shall cause any encroachment or obstruction on any municipal property such as a street or footpath or park
without specific permission of an officer of the Municipality duly authorized to grant such permission. Any person causing
such encroachment or obstruction on any municipal property as aforesaid shall, on conviction, be punishable with fine
which may extend to one thousand rupees.
436.
Punishment of imprisonment in default of payment of fine.
- In every case where, under this Act, an offence is punishable with fine, or with imprisonment or fine, or with both, and a
person is sentenced by a Court having jurisdiction to pay a fine, it shall be competent for such Court to direct that in
default of payment of fine, he shall suffer imprisonment for such term or, as the case may be, such further term, not
exceeding six months, as the Court may fix.
437.
General penalty.
- Whoever, in any case in which a penalty is not expressly provided by this Act, fails to comply with any notice or order
Page 156/183
----- PAGE 157 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
or requisition issued under any provisions thereof, or otherwise contravenes any of the provisions of this Act, shall be
punishable with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees, and, in the case of a continuing failure or contravention,
with an additional fine which may extend to one hundred rupees for every day after the first during which he has
persisted in such failure or contravention.
438.
Offences by companies.
(1)
Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a company, every person who, at the time the offence was
committed, was in charge of, and was responsible to, the company for the conduct of the business of the company, as
well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly:
Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable to any punishment provided in
this Act if he proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge or that he exercised all due diligence to
prevent the commission of such offence.
(2)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where an offence under this Act has been committed by a
company and it is proved that the offence has been committed with the consent or connivance of, or is attributable to
any neglect on the part of, any director, manager, secretary or other officer of the company, such director, manager,
secretary or other officer shall also be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against
and punished accordingly.
Explanation.- For the purposes of this Section,-
(a)
"Company" means a body corporate, and includes a firm or other association of individuals, and
(b)
"Director", in relation to a firm, means a partner in the firm.
439.
Prosecution.
- Save as otherwise provided in this Act, no Court shall proceed to the trial of any offence punishable by or under this
Act except on the complaint of, or upon information received from, the Chief Municipal Officer or any person authorized
by him by genera! or special order in this behalf.
440.
Compounding of offences.
(1)
The Chief Municipal Officer or, if so authorized by the Municipality in this behalf by a general or special order, the
Municipal Health Officer, the Municipal Engineer or any other officer of the Municipality may, either before or after the
institution of the proceeding and on payment of such fee as may be specified by regulations, compound any offence as
may be classified as compoundable by the State Government by Rules.
(2)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), no offence punishable by or under this Act or by any Rule or
Regulation made thereunder shall be compoundable if such offence is committed due to the failure to comply with any
notice, order or requisition, as the case may be, issued by or on behalf of any of the municipal authorities referred to in
Section 20, unless and until such notice, order or requisition, as the case may be, has been complied with in so far as
such compliance is possible.
(3)
Where an offence has been compounded, the offender, if in custody, shall be discharged and no further proceeding
shall be taken against him in respect of the offence so compounded.
Chapter XLIV
Supplemental Provisions
A. Elections
441.
Notification of Municipal Election.
Page 157/183
----- PAGE 158 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
- The [State Government]
[Substituted 'Governor' by Bihar Act No. 7 of 2011, dated 27.5.2011.]
on the recommendation of the State Election Commission, for constituting the Municipalities fix date or dates through
notification published in the State Gazette and it shall be expected that the electors may elect the office bearers of the
Municipalities in accordance with the provisions of this Act:
Provided that no such notification shall be issued prior to six months before the date fixed for election.
[Provided also that no such notification shall be required to be issued to hold elections, against such posts, which after
general election have subsequently become vacant due to resignation, death, removal from post, judicial order or some
other reason. The State Election Commission, as per its convenience, after consultation with the concerned District
Magistrate and intimation to the Government, shall be free to take action to hold election against such posts as sooner
as may be.”]
[Added by Bihar Act No. 7 of 2011, dated 27.5.2011.]
442.
Extension of time for completion of election.
- It shall be competent for the State Election Commission for reasons which it considers sufficient, to extend the time for
the completion of any election by making necessary amendments in the notification issued under Section 441.
443.
Administrative machinery for the conduct of election.
(1)
The State Government shall, when so required, for the conduct of election of Municipalities, make available to the State
Election Commission, the services of officers and staff in the required numbers.
(2)
The State Election Commission for the conduct of Municipality election, shall designate or nominate the District
Magistrate as a District Election Officer (Municipality) for each district and shall designate or nominate one or more
Deputy District Election Officer (Municipality) for the assistance of District Election Officer (Municipality) who shall not be
below the rank of a Deputy Collector:
Provided that the District Election Officer (Municipality) subject to direction, control and supervision of the State Election
Commission, shall co-ordinate and supervise all works relating to conduct of election in the area within his jurisdiction.
(3)
For the Municipality election the State Election Commission or on being authorised by it the District Election Officer
(Municipality) shall appoint Returning Officer (Municipality) who shall not be below the rank of Deputy Collector.
(4)
The State Election Commission or on being authorised by it, the District Election Officer (Municipality) to assist the
Returning Officer (Municipality) in the discharge of his functions shall appoint one or more Assistant Returning Officer
(Municipality) who shall be an officer of the State Government.
(5)
The District Election Officer (Municipality) for every polling station, shall appoint a Presiding Officer (Municipality) and to
assist the Presiding Officer (Municipality) shall appoint as many polling officer or officers as he deems necessary:
Provided that any person who is a Government servant or a servant of Government Company or servant of Government
aided institutions may be appointed as Presiding Officer (Municipality)/Polling Officer:
Provided further that a Poling Officer on being absent from the polling station, the Presiding Officer (Municipality) may,
under above proviso, appoint any person who is present at the polling station other than the persons appointed by the
candidate or on his behalf or has been doing other work for him as Polling Officer and shall accordingly inform the
District Election Officer (Municipality):
Provided further also that the polling officer subject to the direction of the State Election Commission, on being
authorised by the Presiding Officer (Municipality), perform all or any of the functions of Presiding Officer (Municipality)
under this Act and the Rules framed thereunder.
(6)
If the Presiding Officer (Municipality) owing to illness or any other unavoidable reason is compelled to be absent from
the polling station then his functions shall be performed by such polling officer who has been so authorised previously by
Returning Officer (Municipality) to perform such functions during such absence.
Page 158/183
----- PAGE 159 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
(7)
It shall be the general duty of the Presiding Officer (Municipality) to maintain order at the polling station and see that the
poll is properly going on.
(8)
It shall be the duty of a Polling Officer of a polling station to assist the Presiding Officer (Municipality) of such polling
station in discharge of his functions.
444.
Staff of certain authorities to be made available for election work.
(1)
The authorities specified in sub-section (2) shall, when so requested by the District Election Officer, (Municipality), make
available to any returning officer such staff (including teachers, professors, non-teaching staff) as may be necessary for
the performance of any duties in connection with an election. Duties related with polling, counting of votes, maintenance
of law and order, patrolling and magistracy etc. shall be deemed to be included under election duty.
(2)
The following shall be the authorities for the purposes of the Act, namely:
(i)
every local authority;
(ii)
every University established or incorporated by or under a Central, Provincial or State Act;
(iii)
a Government Company as defined in Section 617 of the Companies Act, 1956(1 of 1956);
(iv)
any other institution, concern or undertaking which is established by or under a Central, Provincial or State Act or which
is controlled, or financed wholly or substantially by funds provided, directly or indirectly, by the Central Government or a
State Government.
445.
Furnishing of certain information essential for candidates.
(1)
A candidate shall, apart from any information which he is required to furnish in his nomination papers delivered under
the Act or the Rules made thereunder, also furnish information on affidavit on the following aspects in relation to his/her
candidature-
(i)
Whether he is convicted/acquitted/discharged of any criminal offence in the past-if any, whether he is punished with
imprisonment or fine;
(ii)
Prior to six months of filing of nominations, whether the candidate is accused in any pending case, of any offence
punishable with imprisonment for more than six months, and in which a charge has been framed or cognizance has
been taken by a competent court of law. If so, the details thereof.
(iii)
The assets (including movable, immovable and bank balances, etc.) of a candidate, and of his/her spouse and that of
dependants.
(iv)
Liabilities, if any, particularly whether there are any over dues of any public financial institution or Government dues.
(v)
The educational qualifications of the candidate.
(2)
In case of non-furnishing of the affidavit by any candidate, the nomination of the concerned candidate shall be liable to
rejection by the Returning Officer at the time of scrutiny of nominations for such non-furnishing of the affidavit.
(3)
The information so furnished by each candidate in the aforesaid affidavit shall be disseminated by the respective
Returning Officer by displaying a copy of the affidavit on the notice board of his office and also by making the copies
Page 159/183
----- PAGE 160 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
thereof available freely and liberally to the representatives of the print and electronic media and to any other candidate
or person on deposit of fee prescribed by the Commission.
(4)
If any rival candidate furnishes information to the contrary by means of a duly sworn affidavit, then such affidavit of the
rival candidate shall also be disseminated along with the affidavit of the candidate concerned in the manner directed
above.
446.
Candidate to furnish information only under the Act and the Rules.
-  Notwithstanding anything contained in any judgement, decree or order of any court or any direction, order or any other
instruction issued by the State Election Commission, no candidate shall be liable to disclose or furnish any such
information, in respect of his election, which is not required to be disclosed or furnished under this Act or the Rules
made thereunder.
447.
Penalty for filing false affidavit, etc.
- A candidate who himself or through his proposer, with intent to be elected in an election,-
(i)
fails to furnish information relating to Section 472, or
(ii)
gives false information which he knows or has reason to believe to be false; or
(iii)
conceals any information, in his nomination paper or in his affidavit which is required to be delivered, as the case may
be, shall, notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, be punishable with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year or with fine, or with both.
448.
Requisitioning of premises, vehicles, etc., for election purposes.
(1)
If it appears to the State Government that in connection with an election within the State-
(a)
any premises are needed or are likely to be needed for the purpose of being used as a polling station or for the storage
of ballot boxes after a poll has been taken, or
(b)
any vehicle, vessel or animal is needed or is likely to be needed for the purpose of transport of ballot boxes to or from
any polling station, or transport of members of the police force for maintaining order during the conduct of such election,
or transport of any officer or other person for performance of any duties in connection with such election, the
government may by order in writing requisition such premises, or such vehicle, vessel or animal, as the case may be,
and may make such further orders as may appear to it to be necessary or expedient in connection with the
requisitioning:
Provided that no vehicle, vessel or animal which is being lawfully used by a candidate or his agent for any purpose
connected with the election of such candidate shall be requisitioned under this at such election.
(2)
The requisition shall be effected by an order in writing addressed to the person deemed by the State Government to be
the owner or person in possession of the property, and such order shall be served in the prescribed manner on the
person to whom it is addressed.
(3)
Whenever any property is requisitioned under clause (a) or (b) of subsection (1), the period of such requisition shall not
extend beyond the period for which such property is required for any of the purposes mentioned in that sub-clause.
(4)
In this Section-
(a)
"Premises" means any land, building or part of a building and includes a hut, shed or other structure or any part thereof;
(b)
Page 160/183
----- PAGE 161 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
"Vehicles" means any vehicle used or capable of being used for the purpose of road transport, whether propelled by
mechanical power or otherwise.
(5)
Payment of compensation. - Whenever in pursuance of sub-section (1) the State Government requisitions any premises,
there shall be paid to the persons interested compensation the amount of which shall be determined by taking into
consideration the-
(a)
rent payable in respect of the premises or if no rent is so payable, the rent payable for similar premises in the locality;
(b)
if in consequence of the requisition of the premises, the person interested is compelled to change his residence or place
of business, the reasonable expenses (if any) incidental to such change:
Provided that where any person interested being aggrieved by the amount of compensation so determined makes an
application within the prescribed time to the State Government for referring the matter to an arbitrator, the amount of
compensation to be paid shall be such as the arbitrator appointed in this behalf by the State Government may
determine:
Provided further that where there is any dispute as to the title to receive the compensation or as to the apportionment of
the amount of compensation, it shall be referred by the State Government to an arbitrator appointed in this behalf by the
Government for determination, and shall be determined in accordance with the decision of such arbitrator.
Explanation. - In this sub-clause, the expression "person interested" means the person who was in actual possession of
the premises requisitioned under subsection (1) immediately before the requisition, or where no person was in such
actual possession, the owner of such premises.
(c)
Whenever in pursuance of sub-section (1) the State Government requisitions any vehicle, vessel or animal, there shall
be paid to the owner thereof compensation the amount of which shall be determined by the State Government on the
basis of the fares or rates prevailing in the locality for the hire of such vehicle, vessel or animal:
Provided that where the owner of such vehicle, vessel or animal being aggrieved by the amount of compensation so
determined makes an application within the prescribed time to the State Government for referring the matter to an
arbitrator, the amount of compensation to be paid shall be such as the arbitrator appointed in this behalf by the State
Government may determine:
Provided further that where immediately before the requisitioning the vehicle or vessel was by virtue of a hire purchase
agreement in the possession of a person other than the owner, the amount determined under this sub-section as the
total compensation payable in respect of the requisition shall be apportioned between that person and the owner in such
manner as they may agree upon, and in default of agreement, in such manner as an arbitrator appointed by the State
Government in this behalf may decide.
(6)
Power to obtain information. - The State Government may with a view to requisitioning any property under subsection
(1) or determining the compensation payable under sub-section (5) by order, require any person to furnish to such
authority as may be specified in the order such information in his possession relating to such property as may be so
specified.
(7)
Powers of entry into and inspection of premises, etc. - Any person authorized in this behalf by the State Government
may enter into any premises and inspect such premises and any vehicle, vessel or animal therein for the purpose of
determining whether, and if so in what manner, an order under subsection (1) should be made in relation to such
premises, vehicle, vessel or animal, or with a view to securing compliance with any order made under that clause.
(8)
Eviction from requisitioned premises. - (i) Any person remaining in possession of any requisitioned premises in
contravention of any order made under subsection (2), may be summarily evicted from the premises by any officer
empowered by the State Government in this behalf.
(ii)
Any officer so empowered may, after giving to any woman not appearing in public reasonable warning and facility to
withdraw, remove or open any lock or bolt or break open any door of any building or do any other act necessary for
Page 161/183
----- PAGE 162 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
effecting such eviction.
(9)
Release of premises from requisition. - (i) When any premises requisitioned under sub-section (2) are to be released
from requisition, the possession thereof shall be delivered to the person from whom possession was taken at the time
when the premises were requisitioned, or if there were no such person, to the person deemed by the State Government
to be the owner of such premises and such delivery of possession shall be a full discharge of the State Government
from all liabilities in respect of such delivery but shall not prejudice any rights in respect of the premises which any other
person may be entitled by due process of law to enforce against the person to whom possession of the premises is so
delivered.
(ii)
Where the person to whom possession of any premises requisitioned under subsection (2) is to be given under this
Section cannot be found or is not readily ascertainable or has no agent or any other person empowered to accept
delivery on his behalf, the State Government shall cause a notice declaring that such premises are released from
requisition to be affixed on some conspicuous part of such premises and publish the notice in the official gazette.
(iii)
When a notice referred to in clause (ii) is published in the Official Gazette, the premises specified in such notice shall
cease to be subject to requisition on and from the date of such publication and be deemed to have been delivered to the
person entitled to possession thereof; and the State Government shall not be liable for any compensation or other claim
in respect of such premises for any period after the said date.
(10)
Delegation of functions of the State Government with regard to requisitioning. - The State Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, direct that any powers conferred or any duty imposed on that Government by any of
the provisions of sub-section (1) to (ix) shall, under such conditions, if any, as may be specified in the direction, be
exercised or discharged by such officer or class of officers as may be so specified.
(11)
Penalty for contravention of any order regarding requisitioning. - If any person contravenes any order made under
subsection (i) or (xi), he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year, or with fine, or
with both.
449.
Right to vote.
(1)
No person shall vote at an election in any constituency if he is subject to any of the disqualifications referred to in the
Act.
(2)
No person shall vote at a general or bye election in more than one constituency of the same class, and if a person votes
in more than one such constituency, his votes in ail such, constituencies shall be void.
(3)
No person shall at any election vote in the same constituency more than once, notwithstanding that his name may have
been registered in the electoral roll for the constituency more than once, and if he does so vote, all his votes in that
constituency shall be void.
(4)
No person shall vote at any election if he is confined in a prison, whether under a sentence of imprisonment or
transportation or otherwise, or is in the lawful custody of the police:
Provided that nothing in this sub-section shall apply to a person subjected to preventive detention under any law for the
time being in force.
(5)
Nothing contained in sub-section (2) and (3) Shall apply to a person who has been authorized to vote as proxy for an
elector under this Act in so far as he votes as a proxy for such elector.
450.
Special procedure for preventing personation of electors.
- With a view to preventing personation of electors provision may be made by Rules made under this Act,-
Page 162/183
----- PAGE 163 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
(a)
for the marking with indelible ink of the thumb or any other finger of every elector who applies for a ballot paper or ballot
papers for the purpose of voting at a polling station before delivery of such ballot paper or ballot papers to him;
(b)
for the production before the Presiding Officer or a Polling Officer of a polling station by every such elector as aforesaid
of his identity card as prescribed by the Commission; and
(c)
for prohibiting the delivery of any ballot paper to any person for voting at a polling station if at the time such person
applies for such paper he has already such a mark on his thumb or any other finger or does not produce on demand his
identity card before the Presiding Officer or a Polling Officer of the polling station.
451.
Electors of Municipality.
- All such persons who are enrolled as electors in the electoral roll or that part of the rolls of the State Legislative
Assembly Constituency for the time being in force which is concerned with the territorial constituency of any Municipality
shall be the electors for concerned Municipality Elections:
Provided that the State Election Commission suo motu or on receipt of written representation from an aggrieved person,
is of the opinion that there is sufficient reason for doing so, may direct such changes to be made in the electoral rolls of
the concerned territorial constituency of the Municipality, as it may deem proper:
Provided further that no such change of the electoral roll shall be made after the notification of the date of Municipality
election by the Governor under Section-441 of the Act.
452.
Observers.
(1)
The State Election Commission may nominate an Observer who shall be an officer of State Government to watch the
conduct of election or elections in a constituency or a group of constituencies and to perform such other functions as
may be entrusted to him by the State Election Commission.
(2)
The Observer nominated under sub-section (1) shall have the power to direct the Returning Officer for the constituency
or for any of the constituencies for which he has been nominated, to stop the counting of votes at any time before the
declaration of the result or not to declare the result, if in the opinion of the Observer, booth capturing has taken place at
a large number of polling stations or at places fixed for the poll or counting of votes or any ballot papers used at a polling
station or at a place fixed for the poll are unlawfully taken out of the custody of the Returning Officer or are accidentally
or intentionally destroyed or lost or are damaged or tampered with to such an extent that the result of the poll at that
polling station or place cannot be ascertained.
(3)
Where an Observer has directed the Returning Officer under this Section to stop counting of votes or not to declare the
result, the Observer shall forthwith report the matter to the State Election Commission and thereupon the State Election
Commission shall, after taking all material circumstances into account, issue appropriate directions.
Explanation. - For the purposes of sub-section (2) and sub-section (3), "Observer" shall include any such officer of the
State Election Commission as has been assigned under this Section the duty of watching the conduct of election or
elections in a constituency or group of constituencies by the State Election Commission.
453.
District Election Officer (Municipality), Returning Officer, Presiding Officer, etc. deemed to be on deputation to State
Election Commission.
- The District Election Officer (Municipality),. Returning Officer, Assistant Returning Officer, Presiding Officer, Polling
Officer and any other officer related with election work of Urban Local Bodies and any police officer designated for the
time being by the State Government, for the conduct of such election shall be deemed to be on deputation to the State
Election Commission for the period commencing on and from the date of the notification calling for such election and
ending with the date of declaration of the result of such election and accordingly, such officers shall, during that period,
be subject to the control, superintendence and discipline of the State Election Commission.
B. Electoral Offences
Page 163/183
----- PAGE 164 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
454.
Promoting enmity between classes in connection with election.
- Any person who in connection with an election under this Act promotes or attempts to promote on grounds of religion,
race, caste, community or language, feelings of enmity or hatred, between different classes of the citizens of India shall
be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both.
455.
Prohibition of public meetings during period of forty-eight hours ending with hour fixed for conclusion of poll.
(1)
No person shall-
(a)
convene, hold, attend, join or address any public meeting or procession in connection with an election; or
(b)
display to the public any election matter by means of cinematograph, television or other similar apparatus; or
(c)
propagate any election matter to the public by holding, or by arranging the holding of, any musical concert or any
theatrical performance or any other entertainment or amusement with a view to attracting the members of the public
thereto, in any polling area during the period of forty-eight hours ending with the hour fixed for the conclusion of the poll
for any election in that polling area.
(2)
Any person who contravenes the provisions of sub-section (1) shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which
may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both.
(3)
In this Section, the expression "election matter" means any matter intended or calculated to influence or affect the result
of any election.
456.
Disturbances at election meetings.
(1)
Any person who at a public meeting to which this Section applies acts, or incites others to act, in a disorderly manner for
the purpose of preventing the transaction of the business for which the meeting was called together, shall be punishable
with imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months or with fine which may extend to two thousand rupees or
with both. An offence punishable under this subsection shall be cognizable.
(2)
This Section applies to any public meeting of a political character held in any constituency between the date of the issue
of a notification under this Act calling upon the constituency to elect a member or members and the date on which such
election is held.
(3)
if any police officer reasonably suspects any person of committing an offence under subsection (1) he may, if requested
so to do by the chairman of the meeting require that person to declare to him immediately his name and address and, if
that person refuses or fails so to declare his name and address, or if the police officer reasonably suspects him of giving
a false name or address, the police officer may arrest him without warrant.
457.
Restrictions on the printing of pamphlets, posters, etc.
(1)
No person shall print or publish, or cause to be printed or published, any election pamphlet or poster which does not
bear on its face the names and address of the printer and the publisher thereof.
(2)
No person shall print or cause to be printed any election pamphlet or poster-
(a)
unless a declaration as to the identity of the publisher thereof, signed by him and attested by two persons to whom he is
personally known, is delivered by him to the printer in duplicate; and
(b)
Page 164/183
----- PAGE 165 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
unless, within a reasonable time after the printing of the document, one copy of the declaration is sent by the printer,
together with one copy of the document,-
(i)
where it is printed in the capital of the State, to the State Election Commission, and
(ii)
in any other case, to the District Magistrate of the district in which it is printed.
(3)
For the purposes of this Section-
(a)
any process for multiplying copies of a document, other than copying it by hand, shall be deemed to be printing and the
expression "printer" shall be construed accordingly; and
(b)
"election pamphlet or poster" means any printed pamphlet, hand-bill or other document distributed for the purpose of
promoting or prejudicing the election of a candidate or group of candidates but does not include any handbill, placard or
poster merely announcing the date, time, place and other particulars of an election meeting or routine instructions to
election agents or workers.
(4)
Any person who contravenes any of the provisions of sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) shall be punishable with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to two thousand rupees, or with
both.
458.
Maintenance of secrecy of voting.
(1)
Every officer, clerk, agent or other person who performs any duty in connection with the recording or counting of votes at
an election shall maintain, and aid in maintaining, the secrecy of the voting and shall not (except for some purpose
authorised by or under any law) communicate to any person any information calculated to violate such secrecy.
(2)
Any person who contravenes the provisions of clause (1) shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may
extend to three months or with fine or with both.
459.
Officers etc., at elections not to act for candidates or to influence voting.
(1)
No person who is a District Election Officer (Municipality) or a Returning Officer, on an Assistant Returning Officer, or a
Presiding or Polling Officer at an election, or on officer or clerk appointed by the Returning Officer or the Presiding
Officer to perform any duty in connection with an election shall in the conduct or the management of the election do any
act (other than the giving of vote) for the furtherance of prospects of the election of a candidate.
(2)
No such person as aforesaid, and no member of a police force, shall endeavour-
(a)
to persuade any person to give his vote at an election, or
(b)
to dissuade any person from giving his vote at an election, or
(c)
to influence the voting of any person at an election in any manner.
(3)
Any person who contravenes the provisions of clause (1) or clause (2) shall be punishable with imprisonment which may
extend to six months or with fine or with both.
(4)
An offence punishable under sub-section (3) shall be cognizable.
460.
Prohibition of canvassing in or near polling stations.
Page 165/183
----- PAGE 166 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
(1)
No person shall, on the date or dates on which a poll is taken at polling station, commit any of the following acts within
the polling station or in any public or private place within a distance of one hundred meters of the polling station, namely:
(a)
canvassing for votes; or
(b)
soliciting the vote of any elector; or
(c)
persuading any elector not to vote for any particular candidate; or
(d)
persuading any elector not to vote at the election; or
(e)
exhibiting any notice or sign (other than an official notice) relating to the election.
(2)
Any person who contravenes the provisions of sub-section (1) shall be punishable with fine which may extend to five
hundred rupees, by the Magistrate having the local jurisdiction.
(3)
An offence punishable under this Section shall be cognizable.
461.
Penalty for disorderly conduct in or near polling stations.
(1)
No person shall, on the date or dates on which a poll is taken at any polling station,-
(a)
use or operate within or at the entrance of the polling station, or in any public or private place in the neighbourhood
thereof, any apparatus for amplifying or reproducing the human voice such as megaphone or a loudspeaker or
(b)
shout, or otherwise act in a disorderly manner, within or at the entrance of the polling station or in any public or private
place in the neighbourhood thereof, so as to cause annoyance to any person visiting the polling station for the poll, or so
as to interfere with the work of the officers and other persons on duty at the polling station.
(2)
Any person who contravenes, or willfully aids or abets the contravention of, the provisions of sub-section (1) shall be
punishable with imprisonment which may extend to three months or with fine or with both.
(3)
If the Presiding Officer of a polling station has reason to believe that any person is committing or has committed an
offence punishable under this Section, he may direct any police officer to arrest such person, and thereupon the police
officer shall arrest him.
(4)
Any police officer may take such steps, and use such force, as may be reasonably necessary for preventing any
contravention of the provisions of subsection (1), and may seize any apparatus used for such contravention.
462.
Penalty for misconduct at the polling station.
(1)
Any person who during the hours fixed for the poll at any polling station misconducts himself or fails to obey the lawful
directions of the Presiding Officer may be removed from the polling station by the Presiding Officer or by any police
officer on duty or by any person authorised in this behalf by such Presiding Officer.
(2)
The powers conferred by subsection. - (1) shall not be exercised so as to prevent any elector who is otherwise entitled
to vote at a polling station from having an opportunity of voting at that station.
(3)
If any person who has been so removed from a polling station re-enters the polling station without the permission of the
Presiding Officer, he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three months or with fine or
Page 166/183
----- PAGE 167 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
with both.
(4)
An offence punishable under sub-section (3) shall be cognizable.
463.
Penalty for failure to observe procedure for voting.
- If any elector to whom a ballot paper has been issued, refuses to observe the procedure prescribed for voting the ballot
paper issued to him shall be liable for cancellation.
464.
Penalty for illegal hiring or procuring of conveyance at elections.
- If any person is guilty of any such corrupt practice as is specified in clause (vi) of Section 481 at or in connection with
an election, he shall be punishable with imprisonment which may extend to three months and with fine.
465.
Breaches of Official Duty in connection with election.
(1)
If any person to whom this Section applies is without reasonable cause guilty of any act or omission in breach of his
Official Duty, he shall be punishable with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees. An offence punishable under
sub-section (1) shall be cognizable.
(2)
No suit or other legal proceedings shall lie against any such person for damages in respect of any such act or omission
as aforesaid.
(3)
The persons to whom this Section applies are the District Election Officers (Municipality), Returning Officers, Assistant
Returning Officers, Presiding Officers, Polling Officers and any other person appointed to perform any duty in connection
with the receipt of nominations or withdrawal of candidatures, or the recording or counting of votes at an election; and
the expression "Official Duty" shall for the purposes of this Section be construed accordingly, but shall not include duties
imposed otherwise than by or under this Act.
466.
Penalty for Government servants for acting as election agent, polling agent or counting agent.
- If any person in the service of the Government acts as an election agent or a polling agent or a counting agent of a
candidate at an election, he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three months, or with
fine, or with both.
467.
Prohibition of going armed to or near a polling station.
(1)
No person, other than the Returning Officer, the Presiding Officer, any police officer and any other person appointed to
maintain peace and order, at a polling station who is on duty at the polling station, shall, on a polling day, go armed with
arms, as defined in the Arms Act, 1959 (54 of 1959), of any kind within the neighbourhood of a polling station.
(2)
If any person contravenes the provisions of sub-section (1), he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which
may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both.
(3)
Notwithstanding anything contained in the Arms Act, 1959 (54 of 1959), where a person is convicted of an offence under
this Section, the arms as defined in the said Act found in his possession shall be liable to confiscation and the licence
granted in relation to such arms shall be deemed to have been revoked under Section 17 of that Act.
(4)
An offence punishable under sub-section (2) shall be cognizable.
468.
Removal of ballot papers from polling station to be an offence.
(1)
Any person who at any election takes, or attempts to take, a ballot paper out of a polling station, or wilfully aids or abets
the doing of any such act, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year or with fine
Page 167/183
----- PAGE 168 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
which may extend to five hundred rupees or with both.
(2)
If the Presiding Officer of a polling station has reason to believe that any person is committing or has committed an
offence punishable under sub-section (1), such officer may, before such person leaves the polling station, arrest or
direct a police officer to arrest such person and may search such person or cause him to be searched by a police officer:
Provided that when it is necessary to cause a woman to be searched, the search shall be made by another woman with
strict regard to decency.
(3)
Any ballot paper found upon the person arrested on search shall be made over for safe custody to a police officer by the
Presiding Officer, or when the search is made by a police officer, shall be kept by such officer in safe custody.
(4)
An offence punishable under sub-section (1) shall be cognizable.
469.
Offence of booth capturing.
(1)
Whoever commits an offence of booth capturing shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less
than one year but which may extend to three years and with fine, and where such offence is committed by. a person in
the service of the Government, he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than three
years but which may extend to five years and with fine.
Explanation. - For the purposes of this clause, "booth capturing" includes, among other things, all or any of the following
activities, namely:
(a)
seizure of a polling station or a place fixed for the poll by any person or persons, making polling authorities surrender the
ballot papers or voting machines and doing of any other act which affects the orderly conduct of elections;
(b)
taking possession of a polling station or a place fixed for the poll by any person or persons and allowing only his or their
own supporters to exercise their right to vote and preventing others from free exercise of their right to vote;
(c)
coercing or intimidating or threatening directly or indirectly any elector and preventing him from going to the polling
station or a place fixed for the poll to cast his vote;
(d)
seizure of a place for counting of votes by any person or persons, making the counting authorities surrender the ballot
papers or voting machines and the doing of anything which affects the orderly counting of votes;
(e)
doing by any person in the service of Government, of all or any of the aforesaid activities or aiding or conniving at, any
such activity in the furtherance of the prospects of the election of candidate.
(2)
An offence punishable under sub-section (1), shall be cognizable.
470.
Other offences and penalties therefor.
(1)
A person shall be guilty of an electoral offence if at any election he-
(a)
fraudulently defaces or fraudulently destroys any nomination paper; or
(b)
fraudulently defaces, destroys or removes any list, notice or other document affixed by or under the authority of a
Returning officer; or
(c)
fraudulently defaces or fraudulently destroys any ballot paper or the official mark on any ballot paper or any declaration
of identity or official envelope used in connection with voting by postal ballot; or
(d)
Page 168/183
----- PAGE 169 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
without due authority supplies any ballot papers to any person or receives any ballot paper from any person or is in
possession of any ballot paper; or
(e)
fraudulently puts into any ballot box anything other than the ballot paper which he is authorised by law to put in; or
(f)
without due authority destroys, takes, opens or otherwise interferes with any ballot box or ballot papers therein used for
the purposes of the ejection; or
(g)
fraudulently or without due authority, as the case may be, attempts to do any of the foregoing acts or willfully aids or
abets the doing of any such acts.
(2)
Any person guilty of an electoral offence under this Section shall-
(a)
if he is a Returning Officer or an Assistant Returning Officer or a Presiding Officer at a polling station or any other officer
or clerk employed on official duty in connection with the election, be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may
extend to two years or with fine or with both;
(b)
if he is any other person, be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months or with fine or with
both.
(3)
For the purposes of this Section, a person shall be-deemed to be on official duty if his duty is to take part in the conduct
of an election or part of any election including the counting of votes or to be responsible after an election for the used
ballot papers and other documents in connection with such election, but the expression "official duty" shall not include
any duty imposed otherwise than by or under this Act.
(4)
An offence punishable under sub-section (2) shall be cognizable.
471.
Grant of paid holiday to employees on the day of poll.
(1)
Every person employed in any business, trade, industrial undertaking or any other establishment and entitled to vote at
an election to the Municipalities of the State shall, on the day of poll, be granted a holiday.
(2)
No deduction or abatement of the wages of any such person shall be made on account of a holiday having been granted
in accordance with sub-section (1) and if such person is employed on the basis that he would hot ordinarily receive
wages for such a day, he shall nonetheless be paid for such day the wages he would have drawn had not a holiday
been granted to him on that day.
(3)
If an employer contravenes the provisions of clause (1) or clause (2), then such employer shall be punishable with fine
which may extend to five hundred rupees.
(4)
This section shall not apply to any elector whose absence may cause danger or substantial loss in respect of the
employment in which he is engaged.
472.
Liquor not to be sold, given or distributed on polling day.
(1)
No, spirituous, fermented or intoxicating liquors or other substances of a like nature shall be sold, given or distributed at
a hotel, eating-house, tavern, shop or any other place, public or private, within a polling area during the period of
forty-eight hours ending with the hour fixed for the conclusion of the poll for any election in that polling area.
(2)
Any person who contravenes the provisions of sub-section (1) shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which
may extend to six months, or with fine, which may extend to two thousand rupees, or with both.
Page 169/183
----- PAGE 170 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
(3)
Where a person is convicted of an offence under this Section, the spirituous, fermented or intoxicating liquors or other
substances of a like nature found in his possession shall be liable to confiscation and the same shall be disposed off in
such manner as may be prescribed.
473.
Account of Election Expenses and maximum thereof.
(1)
Every candidate at a Municipality election shall, either by himself or by his election agent, keep a separate and correct
account of all expenditures in connection with the election, incurred or authorised by him or by his election agent
between the dates on which he has been nominated and the date of declaration of the result thereof, both dates
inclusive.
(2)
The account shall contain such particulars, as may be prescribed.
(3)
The total of said expenditure shall not exceed such amount as may be prescribed.
474.
Disqualification on failure to lodge account of election expenses.
- If the State Election Commission is satisfied that a person-
(a)
has failed to lodge an account of election expenses within the time and manner required by or under this Act, and
(b)
has no good reason or justification for the failure, the State Election Commission shall by order declare him to be
disqualified and any such person shall be disqualified fora period of three years from the date of the order.
475.
Qualification for Membership.
- Every person whose name is in the list of voters of any Municipality constituency shall, unless disqualified under this
Act or under any other law for the time being in force, be qualified to be elected as a member or office bearer of the
Municipality:
Provided that in the case of seats reserved for Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes or Backward Classes or Women,
no person who is not a member of any of the Schedule Castes or Scheduled Tribes or Backward Classes or is not a
woman, as the case may be, shall be qualified to be elected to such seat.
476.
Election Petition.
(1)
The election to any office of a Municipality shall not be called in question except by an election petition as prescribed:
Provided that if an election to any office of a Nagar Panchayatis under dispute, the election petition shall lie before such
Munsif within whose jurisdiction such Nagar Panchyat is situated and if the election to any office of Municipal Council
and Municipal Corporation is under dispute, the election petition shall lie before such sub-Judge within whose jurisdiction
such Municipality is situated.
(2)
Parties to the petition-A petitioner shall join as a respondent to his petition-
(a)
Where the petitioner, in addition to claiming a declaration that the election of all or any of the returned candidates is void,
claims a further declaration that he himself or any other candidates had been duly elected, all the contesting candidates
other than the petitioner, and where no such further declaration is claimed, all the returned candidates; and
(b)
any other candidate against whom allegations of any corrupt practice are made in the petition.
477.
An election petition.
(a)
Shall contain a concise statement of the material facts on which the petitioner relies;
Page 170/183
----- PAGE 171 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
(b)
shall set forth full particulars of any corrupt practice that the petitioner alleges including as full a statement as possible of
the names of the parties alleged to have committed such corrupt practice and the date and place of the Commission of
each such practice; and
(c)
shall be signed by the petitioner and verified in the manner laid down in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908)
for the verification of pleadings:
Provided that where the petitioner alleges any corrupt practice, the petition shall also be accompanied by an affidavit in
the prescribed form in support of the allegation of such corrupt practice and the particulars thereof.
(d)
Any schedule or annexure to the petition shall also be signed by the petitioner and verified in the same manner as the
petition.
478.
Bar to interference by Courts in electoral matters.
- Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act-
(a)
The validity of any law relating to the delimitation of constituencies or the allotment of seats to such constituencies,
made or purporting to be made under Article 243 ZA of the Constitution of India shall not be called in question in any
Court;
(b)
no election to any Municipality shall be called in question except by an election petition presented to the Prescribed
Authority under this Act.
479.
Grounds for declaring election to be void.
(1)
Subject to the provisions of sub Section (2) if the Prescribed Authority is of opinion-
(a)
that on the date of his election, a returned candidate was not qualified or was disqualified, to be chosen as a member
under this Act; or
(b)
that any corrupt practice has been committed by a returned candidate or his agent or by any other person with the
consent of a returned candidate or his agent; or
(c)
that any nomination paper has been improperly rejected; or
(d)
that the result of the election, in so far as it concerns a returned candidate, has been materially affected-
(i)
by the improper acceptance of any nomination; or
(ii)
by any corrupt practice committed in the interests of the returned candidate by an agent; or
(iii)
by the improper reception, refusal or rejection of any- vote or reception of any vote which is void; or
(iv)
by any non-compliance with the provisions of this Act or of any Rules or orders made thereunder; the Prescribed
Authority shall declare the election of the returned candidate to be void.
(2)
If in the opinion of the Prescribed Authority, any agent of a returned candidate has been guilty of any corrupt practice,
but the Prescribed Authority is satisfied-
(a)
that no such corrupt practice was committed at the election by the candidate and every such corrupt practice was
committed contrary to the orders and without the consent of the candidate;
Page 171/183
----- PAGE 172 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
(b)
that the candidate took all reasonable measures for preventing the commission of corrupt practices at the election; and
(c)
that in all other respects the election was free from any corrupt practice on the part of the candidate or any of his agent;
then the Prescribed Authority may decide that the election of the returned candidate is not void.
480.
Grounds on which a candidate other than the returned candidate may be declared to have been elected.
(1)
If any person who has filed an election petition has, in addition to calling in question the election of the returned
candidate, claims a declaration that he himself or any other candidate has been duly elected and the Prescribed
Authority is of opinion-
(a)
that in fact the petitioner or such other candidate received a majority of the valid votes; or
(b)
that but for the votes obtained by the returned candidate by corrupt practices the petitioner or such other candidate
would have obtained a majority of the valid votes, the Prescribed Authority shall after declaring the election of the
returned candidate to be void declare the petitioner or such other candidate, as the case may be, to have been duly
elected.
(2)
The decision of the Prescribed Authority shall be final.
481.
Corrupt Practices.
- The following shall be deemed to be corrupt practices for the purposes of this Act-
(i)
bribery as defined in clause (1) of Section 123 of the Representation of the People's Act, 1951 (Central Act 48 of 1951),
for the time being in force;
(ii)
undue influences as defined in clause (2) of the said Section for the time being in force;
(iii)
that appeal by a candidate or his agent or by any other person with the consent of a candidate or his agent to vote or
refrain from voting for any person on the ground of his religion, race, caste, community or language or the use of, or
appeal to religious symbols or the use of, or appeal to national symbols such as the national flag or the national emblem,
for the furtherance of the prospects of the election of that candidate or for prejudicially affecting the election of any
candidate;
(iv)
the promotion of or attempt to promote feelings of enmity or hatred between different classes of the citizens of India on
grounds of religion, race, caste, community or language by a candidate or his agent or any other person with the
consent of a candidate or his election agent for the furtherance of the election of that candidate to or for prejudicially
affecting the election of any candidate;
(v)
the publication by a candidate or his agent or by any other person with the consent of candidate or his agent of any
statement of fact which is false and which he either believes to be false or does not believe to be true in relation to the
personal character or conduct of any candidate or in relation to the candidature or withdrawal of any candidature being
statement reasonably calculated to prejudice the prospects of that candidate's election;
(vi)
the hiring or procuring whether on payment or otherwise, any vehicle or vessel by a candidate or his agent or by any
other person with the consent of a candidate or his agent, or the use of such vehicle or vessel for the free conveyance of
any voter (other than the candidate himself, the member of his family or his agent) to or from any polling station provided
in accordance with the Rules made under this Act:
Provided that the use of any public transport vehicle or vessel or railway carriage by any voter at his own cost for the
purpose of going to or coming from any such polling station or place fixed for the poll shall not be deemed to be a
Page 172/183
----- PAGE 173 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
corrupt practice under this clause.
Explanation. - In this clause, the word "vehicle" means any vehicle used or capable of being used for the purpose of
road transport, whether propelled by mechanical power or otherwise whether used for the drawing of other vehicles or
otherwise.
(vii)
the holding of any meeting at which intoxicating liquors are served;
(viii)
the issuing of any circular, placard or poster having reference to the election which does not bear the name and address
of the printer and publisher thereof;
(ix)
any other practice which the Government may by Rule specify to be a corrupt practice.
482.
Order as to corrupt practices.
- The corrupt practices referred to under this Act shall entail disqualification for membership of any local authority for a
period of five years counting from the date on which the finding of the prescribed authority as to such practices takes
effect under this Act.
483.
Communication of orders.
- The Prescribed Authority under Section 482 of this Act shall after announcing the orders made under this Act send a
copy thereof to the District Magistrate/State Election Commission.
484.
Fresh election, if a seat becomes vacant.
- If the seat of any member has become vacant or is deemed to have become vacant under this Act, a fresh election for
the vacancy so caused shall be held in accordance with provisions of this Act.
C. Extension of the Act to Other Areas and Inclusion or Exclusion of Areas within or from the Municipal Area
485.
Power of State Government to notify intention to extend the Act to other areas.
- Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, the State Government may, by
notification and in such other manner as it may determine, declare its intention to extend, subject to such modifications
and restrictions, if any, as may be specified in the notification, all or any of the provisions of this Act to any other area.
D. Miscellaneous and Transitory Provisions
486.
Provisions of the Chapter to override other provisions.
- The provisions of this Chapter shall have effect notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained elsewhere in this
Act.
487.
Removal of difficulties.
- If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the State Government may, as occasion may require,
by order do or cause to be done anything which may be necessary for removing the difficulty:
Provided that no such order shall be made after the expiry of a period of five years from the date of commencement of
this Act.
488.
Repeal and Savings.
(1)
With effect from the date of coming into force of this Act, the Bihar Municipal Act, 1922, Patna Municipal Corporation
Act, 1951, Bihar Municipal Corporation Act, 1978, Bihar Regional Development Authority Act, 1981, Bihar Town
Planning & Improvement Trust Act, 1951, Bihar Restrictions of Uses of Land Act, 1948, Bihar Municipal Ordinance, 2007
shall stand repealed.
(2)
Gram Panchayats, Panchayat Samities and Zila Parishads, constituted under the Bihar Panchyat Raj Act 2006, whose
jurisdiction extend over the Municipal Area shall not exercise powers and functions as have been entrusted to the
Page 173/183
----- PAGE 174 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
Municipality under this Act.
(3)
The Regional Development Authorities set up under the Bihar Regional Development Authority Act, 1981, the
Improvement Trust or Town Planning Authority set up under the Bihar Town Planning and Improvement Trust, Act,
1951, the Controlling Authority constituted under the Bihar Restriction of Uses of Land Act 1948, shall cease to exist with
effect from the date of this Act comes into force,
(4)
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-section (1): and sub-section (3)
(a)
Subject to the scrutiny of the requirements of the Municipality assessed by an officer or officers appointed by the State
Government, every such officer or other employee serving with various authorities, organisations set up under the Acts
listed in sub-section (1) and (3) of this Section, immediately before the date of the commencement of this Act and on
and from such date shall be deemed to have been transferred to and become an officer or other employee of the
Municipality with such designation as the Municipality may determine and may hold office by the same tenure, at the
same remuneration and on the same terms and conditions of service as he would have held if the Acts were not
repealed, and shall continue to do so unless and until such tenure, remuneration and terms and conditions are duly
altered by the Municipality:
Provided that any service rendered by such an officer or other regular employees before the repeal of the Act shall be
deemed to be service rendered under the Municipality:
Provided further that the officer or officers appointed by the State Government shall screen and verify service record of
each officer and employee and only such officers and employees shall be absorbed in the municipality which have been
appointed against duly sanctioned posts in accordance with law by a Competent Authority.
(b)
Anything done or any action taken (including any appointment, Rule, bye-laws, Regulation made, granted or issued
under various Acts listed in sub-section (1) and (3) of this Section shall, continue to be in force and be deemed to have
been done or taken under the provisions of this Act unless it is superceeded modified/altered by any thing done or any
action taken under this Act.
(c)
All debts, obligations and liabilities incurred, all contracts entered into and all matters and things engaged to be done by,
with or for the various authorities organisations set up under the Acts listed in subsection 3 of this Section shall be
deemed to have been incurred, entered into or engaged to be done by, with or for the Municipality.
(d)
All properties movable and immovable and all rights, title, and interest in any property vested in the authorities
organisations (set up under the Acts) listed in sub-section (1) and (3) of this Section shall vest in the Municipality and all
properties in possession of such organisations shall be deemed to be due to the Municipality.
(e)
All suits, prosecution, and other legal proceedings instituted or which might have been instituted by, for, or against the
said authorities organisation listed in sub-section (1) and (3) of this Section may be continued or instituted by, for or
against the Municipality.
(f)
All sums charged on any property under various Acts listed in sub-section(1) of this Section or the Rules or Regulations
framed thereunder shall continue to be charged on that property and the charge shall be enforceable by the Municipality.
(g)
From the date Act comes into existence, Municipality will have the same right as the said various authorities,
organisations had in all lands within the area notified under sub-section (1) and (3) of the Act which were previously held
by the said various authorities, organisations on lease from the State Government for a certain period or the possession
of which has been delivered to the aforesaid authorities/ organisations.
(h)
The Municipality shall continue to enjoy the powers to realise the various sources of income in terms of levies, fees,
cess, etc.; otherwise empowered to be realised by said various authorities organisation under their respective Acts and
Rules and Regulations framed thereunder specified under sub-section(3) of this Section of the Act, as if the said
Page 174/183
----- PAGE 175 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
authorities were still functioning under their respective Statutes until the same are amended by the Municipality from
time to time.
(5)
Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken in exercise of any power conferred by or under the
Acts/Ordinance referred in sub-section (1) shall be deemed to have been done or taken in exercise of the powers
conferred under this Act, as if this Act were in force on the day on which such things or action was done or taken.
Schedule
(See Section 342)
Purpose for which Premises may not be used without a Licence or Written Permission
1. Aerated water-manufacturing.
2. Aerated water-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling, melting, grinding or preparing
by any process, whatsoever.
3. Aloe fibre and yarn-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process whatsoever.
4. Ammunition-storing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process whatsoever.
5. Arecanut-soaking.
6. Article made of flour-baking, preparing, keeping or storing for human consumption (for other than domestic use).
7. Asafoetida-storing.
8. Asafoetida-except for domestic purposes.
9. Ash-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process whatsoever, dumping or
shifting.
10. Ashes-except for domestic purposes.
11. Autocar or Autocycle servicing or repairing.
12. Bakelite goods-manufacturing or processing.
13. Bakelite goods-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling, melting, grinding or
preparing by any process, whatsoever.
14. Bamboo-storing for sale, hire or manufacture.
15. Bamboos-except for domestic purposes.
16. Banking.
17. Bidi leaves-storing or processing.
18. Bidi leaves-except for domestic purposes.
19. Biddies (indigenous cigarettes), snuff, cigars or cigarettes manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning,
cleansing, boiling, melting, grinding or preparing by any process, whatsoever.
Each State Government may amend this Schedule as per its requirements.
20. Biscuit-baking, preparing, keeping or storing for human consumption (for other than domestic use).
21. Bitumen-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling, melting, grinding or preparing by
any process, whatsoever.
22. Blacksmith.
23. Blasting powder-storing.
24. Blasting powder-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling, melting, grinding or
preparing by any process, whatsoever.
25. Blasting powder-except for domestic purposes.
26. Blood-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process, whatsoever.
27. Blood-except for domestic purposes.
28. Bone-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process, whatsoever.
29. Bones, bone meal or bone powder-except for domestic purposes.
30. Bones-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling, melting, grinding or preparing by any
process, whatsoever.
31. Bread-baking, preparing, keeping or storing for human consumption (for other than domestic use).
32. Brick-Manufacturing.
33. Bricks or tiles by hand power-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling, melting,
grinding or preparing by any process, whatsoever.
Page 175/183
----- PAGE 176 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
34. Bricks or titles by Mechanical power-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling,
melting, grinding or preparing by any process, whatsoever.
35. Brushes-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling, melting, grinding or preparing by
any process, whatsoever.
36. Camphor-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process, whatsoever or boiling.
37. Camphor-except for domestic purposes.
38. Candle-packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process whatsoever.
39. Candles-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling, melting, grinding or preparing by
any process, whatsoever.
40. Carbide of calcium-storing.
41. Carbide of calcium-except for domestic purposes.
42. Cardboard-storing.
43. Cardboard-except for domestic purposes.
44. Carpet-manufacturing.
45. Cashewnut-storing, packing, preparing or manufacturing by any process, whatsoever.
46. Catgut-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process, whatsoever.
47. Catgut-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling, melting, grinding or preparing by
any process, whatsoever.
48. Celluloid goods-storing.
49. Celluloid or celluloid goods-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling, melting,
grinding or preparing by any process, whatsoever.
50. Celluloid or celluloid goods-except for domestic purposes.
51. Cement-packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process whatsoever.
52. Cement concrete designs or models-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling,
melting, grinding or preparing by any process, whatsoever.
53. Charcoal-dumping, shifting, selling or storing.
54. Charcoal-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling, melting, grinding or preparing by
any process, whatsoever.
55. Charcoal- except for domestic purposes.
56. Chemicals-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling, melting, grinding or preparing by
any process, whatsoever.
57. Chemical preparation-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process, whatsoever.
58. Chemicals, liquid-except for domestic purposes.
59. Chemicals, non-liquid-except for domestic purposes.
60. Chilli-grinding by machinery.
61. Chilli (dried)-selling wholesale or storing for wholesale trade.
62. Chillis-except for domestic purposes.
63. Chillis or masala or corn or seeds. Grinding of by mechanical means.
64. Chlorate mixture-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process, whatsoever.
65. Chlorate mixture-except for domestic purposes.
66. Cinder-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process, whatsoever, dumping or
shifting.
67. Cinematograph films stripping in connection with any trade manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning,
cleansing, boiling, melting, grinding or preparing by any process, whatsoever.
68. Cinematography film-shooting of, treating or processing.
69. Cinematograph films non-inflammable or acetate or safety base- except for domestic purposes.
70. Cloth-dyeing, bleaching, mercerizing or storing.
71. Cloth in pressed bales or boras-except for domestic purposes.
72. Cloth or clothes of cotton, wool, silk, art silk, etc.-except for domestic purposes.
73. Cloth, yarn or leather in indigo or in other colours. Dyeing or printing.
74. Cloth or yarn, Bleaching.
Page 176/183
----- PAGE 177 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
75. Coal-dumping, shifting, selling or storing.
76. Coal-except for domestic purposes.
77. Coconut fibre-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process, whatsoever.
78. Coconut fibre-except for domestic purposes.
79. Coconut husk-soaking.
80. Coconut shells-storing.
81. Coir yarn-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process, whatsoever.
82. Coke-storing.
83. Coke-except for domestic purposes.
84. Combustible material-storing.
85. Combustible-baking, preparing, keeping or storing for human consumption (for other than domestic use).
86. Compound gas (oxygen, nitrogen, hydrogen, carbon dioxide, sulphur, chlorine, acetylene)-storing.
87. Compound gas (oxygen, nitrogen, hydrogen, carbon dioxide, sulphur, chlorine, acetylene)-except for domestic
purposes.
88. Coppersmithy.
89. Copra-preparing or storing or selling wholesale.
90. Copra-except for domestic purposes.
91. Cosmetics or toilet goods-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling, melting, grinding
or preparing by any process, whatsoever.
92. Cotton of all kinds, cotton refuse, cotton seed-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by
any process, whatsoever.
93. Cotton seeds-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling, melting, grinding or preparing
by any process, whatsoever.
94. Cotton seed-except for domestic purposes.
95. Cotton including kahok, surgical cotton and silky cotton-except for domestic purposes.
96. Cotton refuse or waste or cotton yarn refuse or waste-except for domestic purposes.
97. Cotton, cotton refuses, cotton waste, cotton yarn, silk, silk yarn, silk inclusive of waste yarn, art silk, art silk waste, art
silk yarn, wool or woollen refuse or waste-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling,
melting, grinding or preparing by any process, whatsoever.
98. Cow-dung cake-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process, whatsoever.
99. Dammar (Resin)- manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling, melting, grinding or
preparing by any process, whatsoever.
100. Detonator-storing.
101. Detonators-except for domestic purposes.
102. Drug-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling, melting, grinding or preparing by any
process, whatsoever.
103. Drugs. Retail sale.
104. Dry leaf-storing.
105. Dry leaves-except for domestic purposes.
106. Dye (stuff)-packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process, whatsoever.
107. Dynamite-storing.
108. Dynamite-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling, melting, grinding or preparing by
any process, whatsoever.
109. Dynamite-except for domestic purposes.
110. Eating house or catering establishment. Keeping of an.
111. Electroplating.
112. Explosive-storing.
113. Explosive paint (nitro-cellulose, lacquer, enamel)-storing.
114. Explosive paint (nitro-cellulose, lacquer enamel)-except for domestic purposes.
115. Fat-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process, whatsoever.
116. Fat-except for domestic purposes.
Page 177/183
----- PAGE 178 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
118. Felt-storing.
119. Felt-except for domestic purposes.
120. Fibre-selling or storing.
121. Fin-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process, whatsoever.
122. Fins-except for domestic purposes.
123. Firewood-selling or storing.
124. Firewood-except for domestic purposes.
125. Firework-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process, whatsoever.
126. Fireworks-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling, melting, grinding or preparing
by any process, whatsoever.
127. Fireworks-except for domestic purposes.
128. Fish-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process, whatsoever.
129. Fish (dried)-except for domestic purposes.
130. Fish oil-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process, whatsoever.
131. Flax-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process, whatsoever.
132. Flax-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling, melting, grinding or preparing by any
process, whatsoever.
133. Flax-except for domestic purposes.
134. Fleshing-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process, whatsoever.
135. Flour-packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process, whatsoever.
136. Food-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling, melting, grinding or preparing by any
process, whatsoever.
137. Food for Retail sale.
138. Fuel-using for any industrial purpose.
139. Fulminate-except for domestic purposes.
140. Fulminate of mercury-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process,
whatsoever.
141. Fulminate of mercury-except for domestic purposes.
142. Fulminate of silver-except for domestic purposes.
143. Furniture-making or storing for sale.
144. Gas-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process, whatsoever.
145. Gas-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling, melting, grinding or preparing by any
process, whatsoever.
146. Gelatine-storing.
147. Gelatine-except for domestic purposes.
148. Gelignite-except for domestic purposes.
149. Ghee-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process, whatsoever.
150. Ghee-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling, melting, grinding or preparing by
any process, whatsoever.
151. Glass or glass articles-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling, melting, grinding or
preparing by any process, whatsoever.
152. Glass levelling.
153. Glass cutting.
154. Glass polishing.
155. Gold-refining.
156. Goldsmithy.
157. Grain-selling wholesale or storing for wholesale trade.
158. Grain-Parching.
159. Gram-husking by machinery.
160. Grass-storing.
161. Grass-except for domestic purposes.
Page 178/183
----- PAGE 179 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
162. Groundnut-selling wholesale or storing for wholesale trade.
163. Groundnut seeds, tamarind seeds or any other seeds. Parching.
164. Gun-cotton-storing, packing/pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process, whatsoever.
165. Gun-cotton-except for domestic purposes.
166. Gunny bag-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process, whatsoever.
167. Gunny bags-except for domestic purposes.
168. Gunpowder-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process, whatsoever.
169. Gunpowder-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling, melting, grinding or preparing
by any process, whatsoever.
170. Gunpowder-except for domestic purposes.
171. Hair-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process, whatsoever.
172. Hair-except for domestic purposes.
173. Hair dressing saloon or a barber's shop-Keeping.
174. Hay-selling or storing.
175. Hay or fodder-except for domestic purposes.
176. Hemp-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process, whatsoever.
177. Hemp-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling, melting, grinding or preparing by
any process, whatsoever.
178. Hemp-except for domestic purposes.
179. Hessain cloth-storing.
180. Hessain cloth (Gunny-bag cloth)-except for domestic purposes.
181. Hides-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process, whatsoever.
182. Hides (dried)-except for domestic purposes.
183. Hides (raw)- except for domestic purposes.
184. Hides or skins, whether raw or dried-Tanning, pressing or packing.
185. Hoof-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process, whatsoever.
186. Hoofs-except for domestic purposes.
187. Horn-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process, whatsoever.
188. Horns-except for domestic purposes.
189. Ice-manufacturing.
190. Ice (including dry Ice)-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling, melting, grinding or
preparing by any process, whatsoever.
191. Incense-storing.
192. Incense of esas-except for domestic purposes.
193. Ink for printing, writing, stamping etc.-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling,
melting, grinding or preparing by any process, whatsoever.
194. Insecticide or disinfectants-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling, melting,
grinding or preparing by any process, whatsoever.
195. Jaggery-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process, whatsoever.
196. Jute-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process, whatsoever.
197. Jute-except for domestic purposes.
198. Khaki-preparing.
199. Khokas, boxes, barrels, furniture or any other article of wood-except for domestic purposes.
200. Keeping of horses, cattle or other quadruped animals or birds for transportation, sale or hire or for sale of the
produce thereof.
201. Lac-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process, whatsoever.
202. Lacquer-except for domestic purposes.
203. Laundry shop. Keeping.
204. Lead-melting.
205. Leather-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process, whatsoever.
206. Leather cloth or rexina cloth or water-proof cloth-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing,
Page 179/183
----- PAGE 180 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
boiling, melting, grinding or preparing by any process, whatsoever.
207. Leather goods, manufacturing of by mechanical means.
208. Leather-except for domestic purposes.
209. Lime-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process, whatsoever.
210. Lime-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling, melting, grinding or preparing by any
process, whatsoever.
211. Limeshell-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process, whatsoever.
212. Limeshell-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process, whatsoever.
212. Linseed oil-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling, melting, grinding or preparing
by any process, whatsoever.
213. Litho press-Keeping
214. Lodging house-Keeping
215. Machinery-using for any industrial purpose.
216. Manure-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process, whatsoever.
217. Marble cutting, grinding, dressing or polishing.
218. Match-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process, whatsoever.
219. Matches for lighting (including Bengal matches)-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing,
boiling, melting, grinding or preparing by any process, whatsoever.
220. Matches for lighting (including Bengal matchs)-except for domestic purposes.
221. Matirf-clifs and nillfiws-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling, melting, grinding or
preparing by any process, whatsoever.
222. Meat-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process, whatsoever.
223. Metal (ferrous or non-ferrous or antimony by excluding previous metal) cutting or treating metal by
hammering,drilling, pressing, filing, polishing, heating or by any other process whatever or assembling parts of metal.
224. Metals (including precious metals)-beating, breaking, hammering and casting.
225. Methylated spirit or denatured spirit-storing.
226. Methylated spirit, denatured spirit or French polish-except for domestic purposes.
227. Nitro-cellulose-except for domestic purposes.
228. Nitro-compound-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process, whatsoever.
229. Nitro-compound-except for domestic purposes.
231. Nitro-mixture-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process, whatsoever.
232. Nitro-mixture-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process, whatsoever.
232. Nitro-mixture-except for domestic purposes.
233. Offal-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process, whatsoever.
234. Offal-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling, melting, grinding or preparing by any
process, whatsoever.
235. Offal-except for domestic purposes..
236. Oil-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process, whatsoever.
237. Oil other than petroleum (either by mechanical power or by hand power or ghani driven by bullock or any other
animal)-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling, melting, grinding or preparing by any
process, whatsoever.
238. Oil other than petroleum-except for domestic purposes.
239. Oil-cloth-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling, melting, grinding or preparing by
any process, whatsoever.
240. Oilseeds-storing.
241. Oilseeds including almonds, but excluding cotton seeds-except for domestic purposes.
242. Old Paper or waste paper including old newspapers, periodicals, magazines, etc.-except for domestic purposes.
243. Packing stuff (paper cutting, husic, saw dust, etc.)-except for domestic purposes.
244. Paddy-boiling or husking by machinery.
245. Paint-manufacturing or storing.
246. Paints-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling, melting, grinding or preparing by
Page 180/183
----- PAGE 181 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
any process, whatsoever.
247. Paints-except for domestic purposes.
248. Paper-packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process whatsoever.
249. Paper other than old paper in pressed bales or loose or in terms- except for domestic purposes.
250. Paper or cardboard-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling, melting, grinding or
preparing by any process, whatsoever.
251. Petroleum product-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process, whatsoever.
252. Petroleum, other than dangerous petroleum, as defined in the Petroleum Act, 1934-except for domestic purposes.
253. Pharmaceutical or medical products-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling,
melting, grinding or preparing by any process, whatsoever.
254. Photography-studio.
255. Phosphorus-storing.
256. Phosphorus-except for domestic purposes.
257. Pickers from hides-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling, melting, grinding or
preparing by any process, whatsoever.
258. Pitch-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process whatsoever.
259. Pitch-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling, melting, grinding or preparing by any
process, whatsoever.
260. Plastic or plastic goods-manufacturing or storing.
261. Plastic goods-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling, melting, grinding or
preparing by any process, whatsoever.
262. Plastic or plastic goods-except for domestic purposes.
263. Plywood-storing.
264. Plywood-except for domestic purposes.
265. Polythene-manufacturing or storing.
266. Pottery-packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process whatsoever.
267. Pottery by hand power-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling, melting, grinding or
preparing by any process, whatsoever.
268. Pottery by mechanical or any power other than hand power manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning,
cleansing, boiling, melting, grinding or preparing by any process, whatsoever.
269. Precious metals. Refining of or recovering them from embroideries.
270. Printing press-Keeping-
271. Radio-manufacturing, assembling, servicing and repairing.
272. Radio (wireless receiving set) selling, repairing, servicing or manufacturing.
273. Rags, including small pieces or cuttings of cloth, hessiah cloth, gunny-bag, cloth, silk, art silk or woollen
cloth-except for domestic purposes.
274. Resin (including rosin)-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process
whatsoever.
275. Rosin or dram mar Battar otherwise known as Ral-except for domestic purposes.
276. Rubber or rubber goods-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling, melting, grinding
or preparing by any process, whatsoever.
277. Rug-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process whatsoever.
278. Safety fuses, fog signals, cartridges, etc.-except for domestic purposes.
279. Sago-manufacturing or distilling.
280. Salpetre-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process whatsoever.
281. Salpetre-except for domestic purposes.
282. Sandalwood-except for domestic purposes.
283. Sanitary-ware of china-ware-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling, melting,
grinding or preparing by any process, whatsoever.
284. Shellac-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process whatsoever.
285. Silk-packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process whatsoever.
Page 181/183
----- PAGE 182 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
286. Silk waste, or silk yarn waste, art silk waste, or art silk yarn waste- except for domestic purposes.
287. Silversmithy.
288. Sisal fibre-storing
289. Sisal fibre-except for domestic purposes.
290. Skin-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process whatsoever.
291. Skins (raw or dried)-except for domestic purposes.
292. Soap-packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process whatsoever.
293. Soap-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling, melting, grinding or preparing by any
process, whatsoever.
294. Spinning or weaving cotton, silk, art silk or jute or wool with the aid of power.
295. Spirit-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process whatsoever.
296. Stone grinding, cutting, dressing or polishing.
297. Straw-selling or storing.
298. Straw-except for domestic purposes.
299. Sugar-packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process whatsoever.
300. Sugar-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling, melting, grinding or preparing by
any process, whatsoever.
301. Sugar candy-packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process whatsoever.
302. Sulphur-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process whatsoever.
303. Sulphur-except for domestic purposes.
304. Surki-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process whatsoever.
305. Sweetmeat-baking, preparing, keeping or storing for human consumption (for other than domestic use).
306. Sweetmeat and confectionery goods-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling,
melting, grinding or preparing by any process, whatsoever.
307. Sweetmeat shop except in premises already licensed as an eating house-Keeping.
308. Tallow-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process whatsoever.
309. Tallow-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling, melting, grinding or preparing by
any process, whatsoever.
310. Tallow-except for domestic purposes.
311. Tar-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process whatsoever.
312. Tar-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling, melting, grinding or preparing by any
process, whatsoever.
313. Tar, pitch (jammer or bitumen)-except for domestic purposes.
314. Tarpauline-storing.
315. Tarpauline-except for domestic purposes.
316. Thatching material-selling or storing.
317. Thinner-storing.
318. Thinner-except for domestic purposes.
319. Tiles-manufacturing.
320. Timber-selling or storing.
321. Timber-except for domestic purposes.
322. Timber or wood sawing or cutting by mechanical or electric power.
323. Tinsmithy.
324. Tobacco (including snuff, cigar, cigarette and bidi)-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or
manufacturing by any process whatsoever.
325. Turpentine-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process whatsoever.
326. Turpentine-except for domestic purposes.
327. Varnish-manufacturing or storing.
328. Varnish-manufacturing, parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling, melting, grinding or preparing by
any process, whatsoever.
329. Varnish-except for domestic purposes.
Page 182/183
----- PAGE 183 -----
The Bihar Municipal Act, 2007
330. Washerman's trade.
331. Welding of metal by electric, gas or any process whatsoever.
332. Wooden furniture, boxes, barrels, kokas, or other articles of wood or of plywood or of sandalwood-manufacturing,
parching, packing, pressing, cleaning, cleansing, boiling, melting, grinding or preparing by any process, whatsoever.
333. Wool-storing, packing, pressing, cleansing, preparing or manufacturing by any process whatsoever.
334. Wool (raw)-except for domestic purposes.
335. Yarn-dyeing or bleaching.
336. Yarn other than waste yarn-except for domestic purposes.
337. Manufacturing article from which offensive or unwholesome smell, fume, dust or noise arises.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 183/183