
----- PAGE 1 -----
Bihar State Recognised Non-Government Sanskrit Schools (up to Madhyama Standard) Managing ...
Bihar State Recognised Non-Government Sanskrit Schools (up to
Madhyama Standard) Managing Committee Constitution Rules, 2015
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/194680516/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Bihar - Act
Bihar State Recognised Non-Government Sanskrit Schools (up to Madhyama Standard) Managing Committee
Constitution Rules, 2015
BIHAR
India
Bihar State Recognised Non-Government Sanskrit Schools (up to Madhyama Standard) Managing Committee
Constitution Rules, 2015
Published on 13 February 2015
Commenced on 13 February 2015
[This is the version of this document from 13 February 2015.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Bihar State Recognised Non-Government Sanskrit Schools (up to Madhyama Standard) Managing Committee
Constitution Rules, 2015
Published vide Notification No. 10/Mu 1-53/2014-101, dated 13.02.2015
Last Updated 6th February, 2020
No. 10/Mu 1-53/2014-101. - In exercise of the power conferred under Section-22 of the Bihar Sanskrit Shiksha Board
Act 1981 (Bihar Act No. 31 of 1982), the Governor of Bihar is pleased to make the following rules for the constitution of
the Managing Committee of the Schools : -
1.
Page 1/7
----- PAGE 2 -----
Bihar State Recognised Non-Government Sanskrit Schools (up to Madhyama Standard) Managing ...
Short title, extent and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called The Bihar State Recognised Non-Government Sanskrit Schools (up to Madhyama Standard)
Managing Committee Constitution Rules, 2015.
(2)
It shall extend to the whole of the State of Bihar and it will be binding on all the recognised Non-Government Sanskrit
Schools (up to Madhyama Standard).
(3)
It shall come in to force at once and constitution of the Managing Committee shall be started under these rules. From
the date of constitution of the New Managing Committees under these rules, the old Committees or Ad-hoc Committees
shall automatically stand dissolved.
2.
Definitions.
- In these Rules, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context -
(i)
'Government' means Bihar Government;
(ii)
'Department' means Education Department;
(iii)
'the Act' means the Bihar Sanskrit Shiksha Board Act, 1981;
(iv)
'Board' means Bihar Sanskrit Board, constituted under Bihar Sanskrit Shiksha Board Act, 1981;
(v)
'Chairman' means Chairman of Bihar Sanskrit Shiksha Board;
(vi)
'Secretary' means Secretary of Bihar Sanskrit Shiksha Board;
(vii)
'Recognition' means Recognised Non-Government Sanskrit School by the Government of Bihar, Education Department,
Patna;
(viii)
'School' means Recognized Non-Government Sanskrit Schools (up to Madhyama Standard) by the Education
Department;
(ix)
'Headmaster' means the Headmaster of recognized Non-Government Sanskrit Schools (up to Madhyama Standard);
(x)
'Assistant teacher' means Assistant teacher of a recognized Non-Government Sanskrit Schools (up to Madhyama
Standard);
(xi)
'Managing Committee' means School Managing Committee of Non- Government Sanskrit Schools (up to Madhyama
Standard) constituted under The Managing Committee Rules 2015.
(xii)
'Recognised Non-Government Sanskrit Schools (up to Madhyama Standard)' means-
(i)
Non-Government Recognised Primary Sanskrit School - From Class I to V
(ii)
Non-Government Recognised Middle Sanskrit School - From Class VI to VIII
(iii)
Non-Government Recognised Primary cum Middle Sanskrit School - From Class I to VIII
(iv)
Non-Government Recognised Madhyamik Sanskrit School - From Class VI to X
(v)
Page 2/7
----- PAGE 3 -----
Bihar State Recognised Non-Government Sanskrit Schools (up to Madhyama Standard) Managing ...
Non-Government Recognised Primary Cum High Sanskrit School - From Class I to X
(xiii)
'Non teaching staff' means all other full time employees except teachers of Non-Government Recognised Sanskrit
Schools (Up to Madhyama Standard)
(xiv)
Modern subject means-
(a)
Manviki subject group
(b)
Science subject group
(c)
Mathematics
(d)
Vocational subject group
(e)
Lalit Kala
(f)
Home Science
3.
Constitution of the School Managing Committee.
- A School Managing Committee will be constituted consisting of the following members for every Recognised
Non-Government Sanskrit School (up to Madhyama Standard):-
(i)
Headmaster of the School-Ex-Officio;
(ii)
A teacher representative nominated by the headmaster who is senior amongst the teachers in the concerned School
according to the annual rotation;
(iii)
Local Member of the Legislative Assembly/Member of the Council (if any from that constituency)/ Member of the Lok
Sabha/ Member of the Rajya Sabha (if any from that constituency)/Block Education Officer;
(iv)
Two Donor members who have donated as movable or immovable property in both ways minimum of 10,000/- (ten
thousand) to the School, but the donated amount in the shape of movable property must have been deposited in the
pass book/account of the School or the immovable property worth minimum 10,000/- (ten thousand) must have been
utilized in the School. Declaration of the Donor (Lifetime Donor and General Donor) shall be made by the Chairman of
the Sanskrit Shiksha Board after necessary verification;
(v)
Two Guardian Representatives (one male and one female) who are the guardians of those regular boy/girl students who
have been studying in that Recognised School for at least two years and have secured highest marks in the school
examination. The Guardian Representative shall not be a teacher, a non-teaching staff or any relative of the
Headmaster/Teacher/Non-teaching staff of the said school;
(vi)
Two Educationists in which one should be eminent Sanskrit Scholar. If eminent Sanskrit Scholar is not available then
any person having interest in Sanskrit subject shall be taken in their places;
(vii)
Inclusion of a female member and a Schedule Caste/Schedule Tribe member in the committee will be compulsory.
School Managing Committee will be constituted from the above members.
4.
Donor Member.
(1)
Where there are more than two donors, the Donor members shall be selected in every three years by rotation firstly
Page 3/7
----- PAGE 4 -----
Bihar State Recognised Non-Government Sanskrit Schools (up to Madhyama Standard) Managing ...
according to the maximum donated amount by the Donor and if donated amount is equal or the date is same then the
members shall be selected by lottery method.
(2)
Where Donor member is not available, the post shall remain vacant until availability of Donor of that category.
(3)
Such persons shall also be the members who have donated minimum 10,000/- (ten thousand) in maximum four
instalments within a period of two years with proof thereof to the School, but they shall be entitled to be the members
only after donating whole amount.
5.
Lifetime Member.
- A person, who has donated at least 25,000/- (Twenty five thousand) in shape of movable, immovable or both property
to the School with proof thereof, shall be a Lifetime Member of the School Managing Committee after the date of
commencement of these Rules.Lifetime member may be more than one. Donor Member shall not be hereditary. After
the death of Donor Member, his legal heirs shall not be the Donor members. If they wants to be a Donor Member, they
will have to donate with proof to the School then. They may be included in the doner list.
6.
Process of constitution of Managing Committee.
(1)
After publication of this Notification in the Bihar Gazette and within fifteen days information of order by the Bihar Sanskrit
Shiksha Board to this respect, the headmaster of the school will send total three names of the members of teacher
representative, Member of the Legislative Assembly/Member of the Parliament/ Block Education Officer,where one
Donor member is available, names of total four members and where two Donor members, name of five members will be
sent to Bihar Sanskrit Shiksha Board for approval. If the post of headmaster is vacant, the senior most teacher of the
School shall send those names.
(2)
Within 15 days of receipt of approved nomination from the Bihar Sanskrit Shiksha Board, the Headmaster of the
concerned school shall convene a meeting of the Managing Committee by giving seven days prior notice with proof to
the approved members at the school building wherein two Guardian Representatives and two Educationist Members
shall be selected. Amongst the Educationist Members, one member must be an eminent Sanskrit scholar. If an eminent
Sanskrit scholar is not available, in that place a person having interest in Sanskrit may be selected.
(3)
In the said meeting, one of the members from the approved list shall preside over the meeting and under whose
chairmanship selection work would be done. In case of three or five approved members on equal vote the vote of The
Chairman will be casting vote. In case of four approved members, the Chairman could not utilize his vote.
(4)
Within 15 days of completion of the aforesaid selection process, the headmaster shall convene a meeting of all the
members in School building by giving minimum one week prior notice with proof thereof. The meeting shall be headed
by any of the members present in the meeting wherein selection of the Chairman and Secretary of the Managing
Committee shall be made unanimously or by majority of votes. Presence of minimum five members in this meeting shall
be compulsory. Headmaster and teacher representative shall not be selected as Chairman or Secretary of the School
Managing Committee.
(5)
The Headmaster/Headmaster in-charge (senior most teachers) shall send the list of officers and members of the
constituted School Managing Committee to the Sanskrit Shiksha Board for its approval. The constituted Managing
Committee shall start functioning only after approval of the Board. If the Board did not approve the constitution of the
Managing Committee and the Managing Committee started its functioning, then the work done by the Managing
Committee shall be deemed to be illegal.
(6)
The tenure of the approved Managing Committee (after approval by the Board) shall be of three years. The Managing
Committee constituted properly and approved by the Board shall not be dissolved before its tenure A new Managing
Committee shall be constituted after every three years.
Page 4/7
----- PAGE 5 -----
Bihar State Recognised Non-Government Sanskrit Schools (up to Madhyama Standard) Managing ...
(7)
If the Managing Committee does not work according to the provisions of the rules or does not follow the instructions of
the Government, the Bihar Sanskrit Shiksha Board shall dissolve the Managing Committee after receiving the
investigation report from the concerned District Education Officer.
(8)
Until the School Managing Committee or in that place ad-hoc committee is constituted under this notification, the old
Managing Committee shall be in function after getting approval/permission of the Sanskrit Shiksha Board but the tenure
of the old Managing Committee shall be extended maximum for a period of six months only.
7.
Functions and Powers of the School Managing Committee.
- The Managing Committee shall have all the powers under rules, orders and instructions issued, from time to time, by
the Education Department of the State Government as well as Bihar Sanskrit Shiksha Board and it shall exercise its all
such powers which may be necessary for proper management, administration and development of the school. In
addition to above, the Managing Committee shall have following functions :-
(i)
To take donation, to purchase or to take on lease any movable or immovable property, essential for the purpose of the
School or otherwise raise money and utilize the same for construction of school building, renovation of the constructed
building and other developmental works as also protect the school properties;
(ii)
to take donation, subscription for the purposes of the School;
(iii)
to keep proper books of accounts in respect of all such properties/money which is received through donations or from
other sources for the school and prepare annual statement of the account and to get the same audited yearly.
(iv)
to regularize the expenditure within the available fund;
(v)
to arrange money for scholarship, prize etc. in addition to Government grant.
(vi)
to make proper arrangement for establishment of hostel, play ground furniture and library for the School;
(vii)
to constitute such Sub-committees which it may deem necessary for the development of students of the school;
(viii)
to do all the statutory/legal/legitimate works on behalf of the School and to protest the improper allegations;
(ix)
To keep discipline in the School and to give proper advice to the headmaster to enhance the educational standards of
the School;
(x)
To make appointment of the school headmaster, teachers and non-teaching staff, to grant leave, to give promotion to
the teachers etc. in light of the Service Condition Notification 2015 notified for the teachers of Non- Government Sanskrit
School (up to madhyama standard) by the Education Department, Government of Bihar.
(xi)
To do all such works which deem necessary in the interest of the School.
8.
Functions and powers of the Secretary of the School Managing Committee.
(1)
Functions and powers of the Secretary of the School Managing Committee will be such which are described in Rule 7 of
those Rules performed and exercised and which may be with the advice of the Managing Committee by the Secretary.
(2)
The Secretary shall convene meeting of the Managing Committee of the School after giving prior notice of at least 10
days. In Special circumstances, Special meeting shall be convened by serving prior notice of three days. "General or
Special Meeting" of the Committee shall be held in the School Building with prior notice with fixed date and time.
Page 5/7
----- PAGE 6 -----
Bihar State Recognised Non-Government Sanskrit Schools (up to Madhyama Standard) Managing ...
(3)
The secretary may sanction different type of leaves relating to the Head master in light of the rules provided in Rule14 of
the Bihar State Non-Government Sanskrit High School (up to madhyama standard) Teacher Service Condition Rules,
2015.
9.
Functions and powers of the Chairman of the School Managing Committee.
(1)
The Chairman of the Managing Committee shall preside over General/Special kinds of all meetings of the School
Managing Committee.
(2)
On equal vote on an issue in the meeting of the Committee, the Chairman shall exercise his voting right which will be
casting vote.
(3)
If the Secretary does not convene the meeting of the School Managing Committee in time and if it appears to be
essential to convene the meeting in the interest of the School, the Chairman may convene the meeting in consultation
with the headmaster.
(4)
In the absence of the Chairman of the managing committee, an Acting Chairman shall be elected amongst the members
present in the meeting who will preside over the meeting.
10.
Ad-hoc Committee.
(1)
After publication of these rules in the Bihar Gazette and within 90 days from the after intimation of the order of
constitution of the Managing Committee of the schools by the Board, the Constitution of the School Managing
Committee will be essential.If the School Managing Committee is not constituted within prescribed period then the Board
shall issue show cause notice to the School by giving one month time and on not receiving explanation within the said
period or in want of satisfactory explanation, The Board shall have right to constitute Adhoc Committee in place of
School Managing Committee.
(2)
Without adherence to the aforesaid provision, no Ad-hoc Committee shall be constituted. If any does so it will not be as
per rule. Without adherence to the aforesaid provision, the Board (not Chairman) (Secretary, Bihar Sanskrit Shiksha
Board) will not constitute Ad-hoc Committee. No Ad-hoc Committee shall commence its work without having prior
approval of the Board and if such an act is done without approval, it deemed to be illegal.
(3)
The powers and functions of the Ad-hoc Committee will be the same which are specified in the Notification for the
School Managing Committee, but the Ad-hoc Committee will not have the power to make any appointment/promotion.
(4)
There shall be three or five members in total in the Ad-hoc Committee among which there will be one Secretary and one
Chairman. The headmaster must be its member, but he will not be Secretary or Chairman. The tenure of the Ad-hoc
Committee will be maximum for six months. In special circumstances, the Board may extend its tenure twice for six
months.
11.
Taking over of the management of the School.
(1)
Notwithstanding of anything contrary to any law for the time being em-forced when it appears to the Board that
Managing Committee of any School has disobeyed the rules and sub rules specified in this Notification or shows
negligence in performance of imposed duties or fails in proper Management of the School and has become essential to
take over the Managing Committee of the school in the public interest, the Board shall issue show cause notice to the
Managing Committee against the proposed proceeding by giving notice of maximum 30 days and on receipt of written
statement and on finding the clarification unsatisfactory, after dissociation of the Managing Committee of such School he
shall constitute the Ad-hoc Committee and will decide that in how many period the new Managing Committee will take
Page 6/7
----- PAGE 7 -----
Bihar State Recognised Non-Government Sanskrit Schools (up to Madhyama Standard) Managing ...
charge of the management but such period shall not be more than total one and half years.
(2)
In special circumstances, if the Board considers necessary, it may suspend the Managing Committee of such School
until the decision for the dissolution of that Managing Committee is taken. Management of such school will be made by
the person or person’s deputed by the Board.
12.
Disposal of the disputes with regard to constitution of the School Managing Committee and the decisions taken by the
Managing Committee.
- Any party aggrieved with change or negligence with regard to any rules in constitution of the school Managing
Committee, mentioned in Rule 3 of these Rules may file a complaint before the Board within 60 days from the date of its
constitution. After that period no complaint shall be heard. After recruiting of the complaint filed within the prescribed
period and after hearing the parties, The Board shall take a decision, which shall be final. If any teacher/non-teaching
staff of the School is aggrieved by any order of punishment/decision of the Managing Committee, he may file an appeal
within 60 days before the Chairman of the Bihar Sanskrit Shiksha Board, who shall pass appropriate order after hearing
the parties and if any person aggrieved with the decision of the Board or Chairman of the Board he may prefer an
appeal within 60 (Sixty) days before the Special Director, Secondary Education and the Special Director after giving full
opportunity to hear the aggrieved and concerned person shall deliver his decision.
13.
Meeting of Managing Committee of the School.
- Normally there shall be four meetings of the School Managing Committee in every year it must be held in every three
months compulsorily. Presence of minimum five members in the meeting will be compulsory. If any member of the
committee except Ex-officio member, Donor member and lifetime member, is absented himself in three consecutive
meetings of the committee without there being any valid & proper reason, he ceased to be member of the committee
automatically and new member shall be appointed against the said vacancy. The committee itself competent to take a
decision on the vacancy caused by such absence and that shall be final.
14.
Representation by the Donor members.
- If a Donor member so desires, he can depute/authorize any person on his behalf/place for the entire period of the
School Managing Committee, till his lifetime but this deputation will admission till the life time of the doner member.
15.
Exchange and sale of permanent property of the School.
- If it is desirable or essential in the interest of the School to exchange or sale its permanent property, the Managing
Committee of the school shall do so after taking prior approval of the Board but the profit accrued from its exchange or
sale shall have to be intimated to the Board with proof thereof and all the records/register shall be kept and maintained
in the office of the School.
16.
Registration.
- It will be essential for the School Managing Committee to register itself under the Society Registration Act, 1860.
17.
Repeal and Savings.
(1)
From the date of commencement of these Rules, all pervious Rules, Resolutions, Orders, and Instructions etc. relating
to Managing Committee are hereby repealed.
(2)
Not with standing such repeal, any action taken or any thing done under the previous Rules, Resolutions, Orders,
Instructions prior to commencement of these rules will be deemed to be taken or done under these rules as at these
Rules come in to force on that day on which such action was taken or such thing was done.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 7/7