
----- PAGE 1 -----
Bihar State School Teachers and Employees Disputes Redressal Rules, 2015
Bihar State School Teachers and Employees Disputes Redressal
Rules, 2015
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/192751504/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Bihar - Act
Bihar State School Teachers and Employees Disputes Redressal Rules, 2015
BIHAR
India
Bihar State School Teachers and Employees Disputes Redressal Rules, 2015
Rule BIHAR-STATE-SCHOOL-TEACHERS-AND-EMPLOYEES-DISPUTES-REDRESSAL-RULES-2015 of 2015
Published on 13 May 2015
Commenced on 13 May 2015
[This is the version of this document from 13 May 2015.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Bihar State School Teachers and Employees Disputes Redressal Rules, 2015
Published vide Notification No. 7/V 3-80/2011-513, dated 13.05.2015
Last Updated 7th February, 2020
No. 7/V 3-80/2011-513-Preamble. - In exercise of the powers conferred under Article 162 and 243 of the Constitution of
Indian and section 47 read with section 146 of Bihar Panchayati Raj Act, 2006 and in the provisions of section 46, 47
read with section 419 of Bihar Municipal Act,2007 and section 38 of "The Right of Children to Free and Compulsory
Education Act, 2009, the state government of Bihar is pleased to make the following Rules for redressal of complaints
and appeals related to employment of teachers and non-teaching employees on a fixed pay in Elementary, Secondary
and Higher Secondary Schools (including government aided and minority schools) of the state by the Panchayati Raj
Page 1/7
----- PAGE 2 -----
Bihar State School Teachers and Employees Disputes Redressal Rules, 2015
institutions and urban institutions under the notified Employment Rules, 2006 and subsequently notified Employment
Rules and also the disputes between the management and the teaching and non-teaching employees of
non-government, non-aided elementary, secondary and higher secondary schools The Bihar State School Teachers and
Employees Disputes Redressal Rules, 2015
Chapter - 1
1.
Short title, extent and commencement.
(1)
These Rules may be called The Bihar State School Teachers and Employees Disputes Redressal Rules, 2015.
(2)
It shall extend to the whole of the State of Bihar.
(3)
It shall come into force with immediate effect.
2.
Definitions.
- In these Rules, unless there is anything repugnant to the subject or context: -
(i)
"Elementary School" means the government /nationalised primary and middle school (government aided schools are
included in it) established for imparting education up to class V or class VIII;
(ii)
"Secondary school" means the government / nationalised / project / minority school imparting education up to class X;
(iii)
"Higher Secondary school" means the government / nationalised / project / minority school up to class XII;
(iv)
"Minority school" means the school governed by the linguistic or religious community defined under clause (1) of Article
31 of the Indian Constitution and is getting grants from the government;
(v)
"Niyojit Teacher" means the teacher employed in elementary, secondary and higher secondary schools of the state
according to Niyojan Niyamawali-2006 and under the successive employment Rules after that;
(vi)
"Niyojit Karmi" means the librarians, clerks, peons and other employees of the elementary / high and higher secondary
schools employed according to Niyojan Niyamawali;
(vii)
"Non-Government and Non-aided" schools means Elementary, Secondary and Higher Secondary schools which are
constituted and managed by the management committee of the society/trust within the state;
(viii)
"Government" means Government of Bihar;
(ix)
"Department" means the Education Department;
(x)
"Niyojan Niyamawali" means the Niyamawali notified for employment of teachers and non-teaching employees from
elementary schools to higher secondary schools;
(xi)
"Appellate Authority" means the District Appellate Authority Constituted at the district level and the State Appellate
Authority Constituted at the state level;
(xii)
"District Appellate Authority" means an authority constituted at the district level under these rules;
(xiii)
"State Appellate Authority" means an authority constituted at the State level under these rules to hear appeal against the
order of District Appellate Authority under these rules;
Chapter - 2
Page 2/7
----- PAGE 3 -----
Bihar State School Teachers and Employees Disputes Redressal Rules, 2015
3.
Establishment of Appellate Authority.
(1)
The state government shall constitute a two member District Appellate Authority in each district to exercise the
jurisdiction, powers and authority conferred to the Appellate authorities by these Rules and may also allocate the
Jurisdictions among the presiding officers of the District Appellate authority from time to time.
(2)
The state government shall constitute one or more than one State Appellate Authority to exercise the Jurisdiction,
Powers and authority conferred by these Rules to hear the appeal against the orders passed by the District Appellate
Authorities.
4.
Composition of Appellate Authority.
(1)
The District Appellate Authority shall consist of two persons only (herein after referred to as the presiding officer) to be
appointed by the State Government. One presiding officer will be a retired officer of Bihar Judicial service and another
will be a retired officer of Bihar Administrative service or Bihar Education Service.
(2)
Notwithstanding anything contained in subsection (1), the State Government may authorise the presiding officer of one
Appellate Authority to discharge the functions of the presiding officer of another Appellate Authority.
(3)
The State Appellate Authority shall constituted at State level consisting of two persons only (herein after each referred
as the separate chairperson) who will be appointed by the State Government for hearing the appeal against the order
passed by the District Appellate Authorities. One chairperson will be a retired Justice of Hon'ble High Court and another
will be a retired officer of Indian Administrative Service not below the rank of Principal Secretary. The State Government
may authorise the Chairperson of one State Appellate Authority to discharge the functions of the Chairperson of another
State Appellate Authority.
5.
Qualification for nomination as Presiding Officer/Chairperson.
(1)
The officer shall be qualified for nomination / appointment as the presiding officer of a District Appellate Authority only
who :-
(a)
is or has been or is qualified to be a District Judge or Additional District Judge;
or
(b)
has, held class I posts under Bihar Administrative Service or Bihar Education Service, for at least two years;
(2)
The officer shall be qualified for nomination / appointment as the Chairperson of a State Appellate Authority only who :-
(a)
has been a Justice of Hon'ble High Court, or
(b)
has been an officer of Indian Administration Service and has held the post of Principal Secretary/ Level of Principal
Secretary for at least two years.
6.
Term of office of the presiding officer.
- The Presiding Officer of the District Appellate Authority shall hold the office for a term of 5 years from the date on which
he enters upon his office or until he attains the age of 70 (seventy) years whichever is earlier. The Chairperson of State
Appellate Authority shall hold the office for a term of 5 years from the date on which he enters upon his office or until he
attains the age of 70 (seventy) years whichever is earlier.
7.
Appointment of Presiding Officer/Chairperson.
Page 3/7
----- PAGE 4 -----
Bihar State School Teachers and Employees Disputes Redressal Rules, 2015
(1)
The Presiding Officer of the District Appellate Authority shall be appointed by the approval of the Minister of Education
Department on the recommendation of the screening committee constituted under the Chairmanship of the Principal
secretary, Education Department.
(2)
The Chairperson of the State Appellate Authority shall be appointed by the approval of the Chief Minister of the State on
the recommendation of the Education Department.
8.
Resignation and removal.
(1)
The Presiding Officer of a District Appellate Authority may, by notice in writing under his hand addressed to the State
Government, may resign his office:
Provided that the Presiding Officer of a District Appellate Authority shall, unless he is permitted by the State Government
to relinquish his office shall continue to hold office until expiry of three months from the date of receipt of such notice or
until a person duly appointed as his successor enters upon his office or until the expiry of his term of office, whichever is
earlier.
(2)
The State Government may remove any Presiding Officer of the District Appellate Authority from his post due to
misbehaviour or incapacity of work, laxity in discharge of responsibilities, passing orders against the set rules of the
Government, having another employment on pay holding this post. But before removing him from his post, a reasonable
opportunity shall be given of being heard.
(3)
The Chairperson of a State Appellate Authority may, by notice in writing under his hand addressed to the State
Government, may resign his office. The State Government may remove any chairperson of the State Appellate Authority
from his post due to misbehaviour or incapacity of work, laxity in discharge of responsibilities, after giving him a
reasonable opportunity of being heard.
9.
Salaries and Allowances of Presiding Officer of Appellate Authority.
(1)
The Presiding Officer of District Appellate Authority will get the same amount of pay every month which may be
determined by the Finance Department. In addition to this, he will get a fixed sum of Rs. 10,000/- (Ten thousand) as
house and transport allowances per month;
(2)
The presiding officer will be entitled for 16 days of casual leave and 20 days of medical leave in a year. In addition, he
can also avail of an extraordinary leave for 60 days in a year without pay.
(3)
Salaries Allowances and service conditions of the Chairperson of State Appellate Authority. The Chairperson of the
State Appellate Authority will get the same amount of pay every month which may be determined by the Finance
Department from time to time. In addition to this, he will get other allowances and facilities which may be admissible to
him at the time of retirement.
10.
Staff of the Appellate Authority.
(1)
The State Government shall determine the nature and categories of officers and other employees required to assist the
Appellate Authorities in the discharge of its function and provide the Appellate Authorities with such officers and other
employees as it may think fit.
(2)
The salaries and allowances and other conditions of service of the officers and other employees of an Appellate
Authority shall be such as may be prescribed by the department.
(3)
The officer and employees of an Appellate Authority shall discharge their functions under the general superintendence
Page 4/7
----- PAGE 5 -----
Bihar State School Teachers and Employees Disputes Redressal Rules, 2015
of the Presiding Officer.
11.
Amount for the office of Appellate Authority.
- Necessary amount will be provided to the Appellate Authority each year by the Government.
12.
Bank account and its operation.
- The Appellate Authority shall have its own bank account and seal. The bank account will be operated as per the
direction of the Government.
Chapter - 3
13.
Powers and functions of the District Appellate Authority.
(1)
The District Appellate Authority shall hear and dispose of the complaints / appeals related to employment of Niyojit
teachers, librarians and other Niyojit functionaries of Government / Nationalised elementary, secondary and higher
secondary schools (including government aided / minority schools). It shall also hear and dispose of the
disputes/appeals related to their service conditions. Besides, it shall also hear and dispose of the disputes related to
service matter between management and teaching / non-teaching functionaries of non-government and non-aided
schools functioning in the state.
(2)
The office of the District Appellate Authority shall maintain properly all types of documents related to complaint / appeal.
(3)
All types of complaints / appeals shall be filed before the District Appellate Authority within 30 days from the date of its
occurrence. The Authority may condone the delay in filing the complaint / appeal received after 30 days on reasonable
grounds.
(4)
The District Appellate Authority, while enquiring into any matter and hearing any matter, shall have the same powers as
are vested in a civil court while trying a suit under the Code of Civil Procedure 1908, in respect of the following matters,
namely :-
(a)
Summoning and ensuring the attendance of persons and compel them to give oral or written evidence on oath and to
produce documents;
(b)
Requiring the discovery and inspection of documents;
(c)
Receiving evidence on affidavit;
(d)
Issuing summons for examination of witnesses or documents;
(5)
The Presiding Officer of the Appellate Authority shall enquire and hear each complaint / dispute and shall pass order.
(6)
The Appellate Authority may get the matter enquired by the officers of Education department or by any other
administrative officer of the district;
(7)
The Appellate Authority may generally dispose of a complaint / dispute within 90 days from the day of receiving.
14.
Powers and functions of the State Appellate Authority.
(1)
The appeal against the orders of District Appellate Authority shall be heard and disposed of by the State Appellate
Authority.
(2)
All types of appeals shall be filed before the State Appellate Authority within 30 days from the date of the order passed
Page 5/7
----- PAGE 6 -----
Bihar State School Teachers and Employees Disputes Redressal Rules, 2015
by the District Appellate Authority but the Appellate Authority will have power to condone the delay in filing the appeal on
reasonable grounds.
(3)
The State Appellate Authority, while enquiring into any matter and hearing any matter, shall have the same powers as
are vested in a civil court while trying a suit under the Code of Civil Procedure 1908, in respect of the following matters,
namely :-
(a)
Summoning and ensuring the attendance of persons and compel them to give oral or written evidence on oath and to
produce documents and things;
(b)
Requiring the discovery and inspection of documents;
(c)
Receiving evidence on affidavit;
(d)
Issuing summons for examination of witnesses or documents;
15.
Power of punishment.
(1)
The directions given for submitting required documents and the orders passed in complaint / appeal cases by the District
Appellate Authority shall be complied by the concerned authorities and employment units;
(2)
The District Appellate Authority may take cognizance, in case of non compliance of its directions and orders, The
petitioner may also file a case regarding non-compliance of the order of the District Appellate Authority.
(3)
The Appellate Authority may issue notices to the parties concerned and shall give a reasonable time to comply the
directions / orders.
(4)
In the case of non-compliance of the directions / orders, the Appellate Authority may impose a fine up to Rs. 50,000/-
(Fifty thousand rupees) on the responsible party. In addition to this, the Appellate Authority may recommend for
departmental proceeding and necessary action against the guilty persons under the provisions of Bihar Service code,
Panchayati Raj Act, Municipal Act and other Rules. The Party concerned shall be given reasonable opportunity of being
heard before imposing any penalty on them. The amount of penalty shall be deposited in the treasury in the Head
communicated / specified by the department. The amount of penalty shall be recovered as public demand.
16.
Proceeding before an Appellate Authority to be judicial proceeding.
- All proceeding before the Appellate Authority shall be deemed to be judicial proceeding within the meaning of sections
193, 219 and 228 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).
17.
Chairperson/Presiding Officers and staff of Appellate Authority to be public servants.
- The Chairperson/Presiding Officer and the officers and other employees provided under these Rules shall be deemed
to be public servant within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).
18.
Protection of action taken in good faith.
- No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the Chairperson/Presiding Officer or any other person
authorised by such Presiding Officer for anything which is done in good faith or intended to be done in pursuance of this
Act or any rule or order made there under.
19.
Monitoring and Report.
(1)
The Appellate Authority shall monitor the implementation of its orders;
(2)
Page 6/7
----- PAGE 7 -----
Bihar State School Teachers and Employees Disputes Redressal Rules, 2015
Monthly and yearly report will be submitted to the Education Department regarding the number of complaints /
applications received and the number of complaints / applications disposed of.
(3)
Details of the punishment given shall also be reported to the department.
20.
Power to remove difficulties.
- The State Government, by notification, shall have the power to remove such difficulties as arises in implementation of
the provisions of these rules after due consideration.
21.
Dissolution of Appellate Authority.
- On the dissolution of Appellate Authority, its assets and liabilities shall vest in the Education Department.
22.
Repeal and savings.
(1)
"The Bihar State School Teachers and Employees Disputes Redressal Rules 2013" and subsequent orders/instructions
passed under the said Rules, 2013 are hereby repealed.
(2)
Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken by in exercise of any powers conferred to the Appellate
Authority by or under the said Rules shall be deemed to have been done or taken in the exercise of the powers
conferred by or under these Rules, as if these Rules were in force on the day on which such thing or action was done or
taken.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 7/7