
----- PAGE 1 -----
Bihar Filaria Control Technical Personnel Cadre Rules, 2016
Bihar Filaria Control Technical Personnel Cadre Rules, 2016
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/194046271/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Bihar - Act
Bihar Filaria Control Technical Personnel Cadre Rules, 2016
BIHAR
India
Bihar Filaria Control Technical Personnel Cadre Rules, 2016
Rule BIHAR-FILARIA-CONTROL-TECHNICAL-PERSONNEL-CADRE-RULES-2016 of 2016
Published on 20 April 2016
Commenced on 20 April 2016
[This is the version of this document from 20 April 2016.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Bihar Filaria Control Technical Personnel Cadre Rules, 2016
Published vide Notification No. 11@QkbZ0 ¼LFkk0½ 12@2014 ¼11½&416¼11½—, Dated 20.04.2016
Last Updated 7th February, 2020
No. 11@QkbZ0 ¼LFkk0½ 12@2014 ¼11½&416¼11½— - In exercise of the powers conferred by proviso to Article 309
of the Constitution of India, the Governor of Bihar is pleased to make the following Rules to regulate the appointment
and service conditions in the cadre of technical Personnel's under the Filaria Control Programme under the Health
Department. -
1.
Short title, extent & commencement.
(1)
These Rules may be called the "Bihar Filaria Control Technical Personnel Cadre Rules, 2016".
Page 1/5
----- PAGE 2 -----
Bihar Filaria Control Technical Personnel Cadre Rules, 2016
(2)
It shall extend to the whole State of Bihar.
(3)
It shall come into force at once.
2.
Definitions.
- In these Rules, unless it is otherwise required in the subject or context :-
(i)
'Government' means State Government of Bihar;
(ii)
'Department' means The Health Department;
(iii)
'Commission' means The Bihar Technical Staff Selection Commission or The Bihar staff Selection commission till the
working of The Bihar Technical Staff Selection Commission;
(iv)
'Directorate' means The Directorate, Health Services, Bihar;
(v)
'Director in Chief' means The Director in Chief, Health Services, Bihar;
(vi)
'Appointing Authority' means The Director in Chief, Health Services, Bihar;
(vii)
'Cadre' means The Bihar Filaria Control Technical Personnel Cadre; and
(viii)
'Appendix' means appendix appended to these Rules.
3.
Constitution of Service.
(1)
The Filaria Technical Personnel Cadre shall be State Level and in this cadre, there will be following sub-cadres, namely
:-
(i)
Superior Field Worker sub-cadre
(ii)
Insect Collector sub-cadre
(2)
The number of posts of each category of each sub-cadre of this cadre and the number of the total posts shall be as
many as may be sanctioned by the Government, from time to time.
(3)
The pay-scale of posts of each category of each sub-cadre of this cadre shall be such as may be determined by the
Government, from time to time.
4.
Recruitment & Procedure of recruitment.
(1)
The appointment in each sub-cadre of this cadre shall be made by direct recruitment according to as specified in the
Appendix.
(2)
The Appointing Authority, after calculating vacancy on the basis of position as on 1st April of the year and getting roster
cleared, shall send reservation category wise requisition to the Commission latest by 30th April. In the light of requisition,
the Commission shall invite applications by advertising vacancies and shall prepare merit list according to the procedure
prescribed in the column-8 of the Appendix.
(3)
1st August of the concerned year shall be deemed to be the cut off date for determination of age.
Page 2/5
----- PAGE 3 -----
Bihar Filaria Control Technical Personnel Cadre Rules, 2016
5.
After preparation of merit list for direct recruitment, but before the recommendation preliminary scrutiny of the certificates
and medical check up shall be conducted by the Commission with the cooperation of the Appointing Authority, and
thereafter, reservation category wise final recommendation shall be sent to the Appointing Authority. At the level of
Appointing Authority also, antecedents of recommended candidates shall be caused to be verified after scrutiny of
certificates. After receipt of recommendation of the Commission, compliance of instructions issued by the Government,
from time to time, with reference to procedure of appointment, shall be necessary.
6.
Probation Period.
- The appointment shall be on probation and the probation period will be of two years. In case, during probation period
the service is not satisfactory, the appointing authority may extend the same for one year if there is chance of
improvement in the candidate concerned. If the service is not found satisfactory in extended period also, then the
service of such person may be terminated.
7.
Training.
- During probation period, it shall be essential to participate in the training prescribed by the Appointing Authority. The
detailed module of training shall be prepared by the Directorate.
8.
Departmental Examination.
- It shall be essential to pass the Departmental Examination prescribed by the Appointing Authority. The syllabus of
Departmental Examination shall be determined by the Directorate.
9.
Confirmation.
- On satisfactory completion of probation period, successful completion of training and passing of departmental
examination, a personnel may be confirmed in the service.
10.
Seniority.
- The inter-se seniority shall be determined according to the final merit list prepared by the Commission, but the seniority
of Personnel's appointed and working from before coming into force of these Rules shall remain unchanged.
11.
Promotion.
(1)
Subject to availability of vacancy, confirmed Personnel's may be considered to be promoted to the 1st ladder and 2nd
ladder of the posts of chain mentioned in column-9 of the Appendix, according to seniority -cum- merit and 3rd ladder on
merit com seniority on the recommendation of the Departmental Promotion Committee.
(2)
The Departmental Promotion Committee shall be constituted by the Department.
(3)
It shall be essential to comply the instructions with respect to 'Kalawadhi' for promotion issued by the Government
(General Administration Department), from time to time.
(4)
Compliance of instructions issued by the Government, from time to time, with respect to conditions of promotion and
Character Roll/P.A.R., allegation, departmental proceeding/criminal proceeding etc. shall be required at the time of
consideration of promotion.
12.
Reservation.
- Compliance of Reservation Act of the Government and reservation roster for direct recruitment and promotion, issued
by the Government, from time to time, shall be necessary.
13.
The Personnel's appointed/promoted and working on the posts of this cadre mentioned in the Appendix, from before
coming into force of these Rules, shall be deemed to be automatically included in this cadre.
Page 3/5
----- PAGE 4 -----
Bihar Filaria Control Technical Personnel Cadre Rules, 2016
14.
Residue matters.
- Provisions of relevant codes/Rules/Resolutions/ Instructions of the Government shall apply to such subjects for which
provisions have not been made in these Rules.
15.
Interpretation.
- If any doubt arises with respect to interpretation of any of the provisions of these Rules, it shall be referred to the
Department and in this respect, the decision of the Department after consultation with General Administration
Department and The Law Department shall be final.
16.
Removal of difficulties.
- If any difficulty arises in implementation of any of the provisions of these Rules, the State Government, by General or
special order, which is not inconsistent with the provisions of these rules, may remove any such difficulty.
17.
Repeal & Savings.
(1)
The Rules, All Resolutions, Orders, Instructions, etc. issued earlier, by the Department, from time to time, with respect to
this cadre, are hereby repealed with effect from the date of coming into force of these Rules.
(2)
Notwithstanding such repeal, any thing done or any action taken under the Rules, Resolutions, Orders, Instructions, etc
shall be deemed to be done or taken under these Rules, as if these Rules were in force on the date on which such thing
was done or such action was taken.
Appendix
Bihar Filaria Control Technical Personnel's Cadre
Sl. No.
Name of Sub-cadre
Name of post of basic grade
By direct recruitment or by promotion
Minimum educational qualification for direct
recruitment
1
2
3
4
5
1.
Superior Field Worker sub-cadre
Superior Field Worker
Direct recruitment
Intermediate/ 10+2, Pass
2.
Insect Collector sub-cadre
Insect Collector
Direct recruitment
Intermediate/ 10+2, Pass
Age limit for direct recruitment
Procedure of direct recruitment
Chain of posts for promotion
Duties
Minimum
Maximum
Page 4/5
----- PAGE 5 -----
Bihar Filaria Control Technical Personnel Cadre Rules, 2016
6
7
8
9
10
18 years
Shall be the same as determined reservation
category-wise by the General Administration Department, from time
to time
On the basis of Intermediate level competitive
examination conducted by the Commission.
First ladder-
Senior Superior Field Worker
Second ladder- Superior Field Worker Supervisor
Third ladder- Senior Superior Field
Worker Supervisor.
Spray of Larva Preventive medicines at mosquito
producing places, submission of report to filalria inspector
after preparation of work details. working of blood survey work
in the night with the filaria inspection on which basis spray
related report is submitted to State Govt & GOI. To do all
works of filaria inspector in his absence. In addition to this
all such works which are ordered by the Director-in- Chief from
time to time
18 years
As above
As above
First ladder-
Senior Insect Collector
Second ladder- Insect Collector Supervisor
Third ladder- Senior Insect Collector
Supervisor
Collection of mosquitoes in villages, Town,
Mohallas & colonies. Dissection of collected mosquitoes after
bring in the laboratories & microscopic test for being
positive & negative. Preparation of report on the basic of
test, on which basis report is sent to state govt. & GOI &
disease Control Programme is determined regarding effect of
disease. To do all works of in-charge lab Technician in his
absence. In addition to this all such works which are ordered by
the Director-in- Chief from time to time
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 5/5