
----- PAGE 1 -----
Bihar Ward Sabha & Ward Implementation and Management Committee Conduct of Business Rules,...
Bihar Ward Sabha & Ward Implementation and Management
Committee Conduct of Business Rules, 2017
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/112855266/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Bihar - Act
Bihar Ward Sabha & Ward Implementation and Management Committee Conduct of Business Rules, 2017
BIHAR
India
Bihar Ward Sabha & Ward Implementation and Management Committee Conduct of Business Rules, 2017
Rule
BIHAR-WARD-SABHA-WARD-IMPLEMENTATION-AND-MANAGEMENT-COMMITTEE-CONDUCT-OF-BUSINESS-RU
LES-2017 of 2017
Published on 28 June 2017
Commenced on 28 June 2017
[This is the version of this document from 28 June 2017.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Bihar Ward Sabha & Ward Implementation and Management Committee Conduct of Business Rules, 2017
Published vide Notification No. 8Pa/6-04-01/2016/5685/P.R., dated 28.6.2017
No. 8Pa/Vi-04-01/2016/5685/P.R. - In exercise of the powers conferred by the Section-146 read with Section 170A,
Section 170B and Section 170C of the Bihar Panchayat Raj Act, 2006 (The Bihar Act 6, 2006), as amended from time to
time, the Governor of Bihar is pleased to make the following rules:-
1.
Short title, extent and commencement.
Page 1/7
----- PAGE 2 -----
Bihar Ward Sabha & Ward Implementation and Management Committee Conduct of Business Rules,...
(1)
These Rules may be called the "The Bihar Ward Sabha & Ward Implementation and Management Committee Conduct
of Business Rules, 2017.
(2)
It shall extend to whole of the State of Bihar.
(3)
It shall come into force at once.
2.
Definitions.
- Unless there is anything repugnant to the subject or context, in these Rules -
(a)
"Act" means the Bihar Panchayat Raj Act, 2006;
(b)
"Section" means the section of the Bihar Panchayat Raj Act, 2006;
(c)
"Government" means the State Government of Bihar;
(d)
"Mukhiya" means a Mukhiya of the Gram Panchayat elected under the provisions of the Act;
(e)
"Member of Gram Panchayat or Ward Member" mean member of the Gram Panchayat elected under clause (b) of
sub-section (1) of Section 12 of the Act;
(f)
"Gram Sabha" means a body constituted consisting of persons registered therein the electoral roll pertaining to any
village falling within the territorial area of a Panchayat at village level;
(g)
"Ward Sabha" means a Ward Sabha constituted under sub-section (1) of section 170 A;
(h)
"Ward Sabha Secretary" means the Secretary of the Ward Sabha selected under sub-rule (4) of rule 3 of these rules;
(i)
"Ward Implementation and Management Committee" means the Ward Implementation and Management Committee
constituted under Section 170B of the Act;
(j)
"Member Secretary" means Secretary of the Ward Implementation and Management Committee;
(k)
"Executive Officer" means an Executive Officer of the Panchayat Samiti appointed under Section 60 of the Act;
(l)
All words and expressions used in these Rules but not defined shall have the same meaning which is respectively
assigned to them in the Act.
3.
Ward Sabha and its meetings.
(1)
There shall be a Ward Sabha for each ward or territorial electoral constituency of Gram Panchayat. All persons
registered under the electoral roll of the ward shall be members of the concerned Ward Sabha.
(2)
The Gram Panchayat Member elected from the ward (Ward Member) shall convene meetings of the Ward Sabha from
time to time for performing functions specified under the Act, but the time interval between two consecutive meetings of
any Ward Sabha shall not exceed three months.
(3)
Meeting of the Ward Sabha shall be convened regularly at the place as specified under Rule 4. In case the meeting is
not convened by the Ward Member, the Mukhiya or Up- Mukhiya of the Gram Panchayat, if authorized by the Mukhiya,
shall convene the meeting and will preside over the meeting. If the Mukhiya or Up-Mukhiya also fails to convene the
Page 2/7
----- PAGE 3 -----
Bihar Ward Sabha & Ward Implementation and Management Committee Conduct of Business Rules,...
meeting of Ward Sabha, the matter will be brought to the notice of the Executive Officer of the concerned Panchayat
Samiti, who shall be competent to direct the Mukhiya/Ward Member to convene meeting of such Ward Sabha at the
earliest.
(4)
The Ward Sabha shall select one member from amongst its members to function as Ward Sabha Secretary, whose
minimum educational qualification will be tenth Class pass. No person from the family of chairman or any office bearer of
Panchayati Raj Institutions(PRIs)/Gram Katchahry shall be selected as Ward Sabha Secretary. The main responsibility
of Ward Sabha Secretary will be to convene meetings of Ward Sabha under the direction of the Ward Member, to record
proceedings of meetings and to carry out other responsibilities assigned from time to time by the Ward Sabha.
4.
Place of meeting.
- Meeting of the Ward Sabha shall be held at the Panchayat Bhawan/Panchayat Sarkar Bhawan or any community
building or at any other convenient public place within the Ward. It shall not be held at a private building or place. It shall
be kept in mind that the place of meeting shall be open and adequately lighted and be conveniently suited for sitting of
members of Ward Sabha.
5.
Publication of notice of meeting.
(1)
A notice containing date, time and place of meeting, giving therein details of agenda shall be published and propagated
at least 7 days before in the following manner :-
(a)
By fixing at one or more conspicuous visible places of the ward, and
(b)
By beating of Drum or Dugdugi or by announcing of such meeting through loudspeaker in the ward area, or
(c)
By informing children at school during prayer time so that they may give message relating to the meeting of Ward Sabha
to their parents, or
(d)
By door to door personal contact by the Ward Member or the Secretary of the ward,
Provided that for special or emergency requirements, a special meeting may be convened at shorter notice, but which
shall not be less than three days.
(e)
Meeting of Ward Sabha will generally be convened at a convenient time on any day of the week so that women folk also
may easily take part in the meeting after finishing their domestic chores.
(2)
A copy of the notice shall be served to the concerned Mukhiya and concerned elected members of the PRIs residing
within the Ward.
(3)
Gram Panchayat may suggest suitable dates in advance for convening meetings of Ward Sabhas at least one month
before the scheduled date for meeting of Gram Sabha, so that all Ward Sabha meetings would have been convened
before the meeting of Gram Sabha. The notice for meetings of Ward Sabha will generally be issued according to the
dates suggested by the Gram Panchayat.
6.
Quorum and postponement of the meeting of the Ward Sabha in absence of the Quorum.
- Quorum shall be present with one tenth of the total members of the Ward Sabha or fifty members. If the quorum is not
present on the fixed time of the meeting or if the meeting has started and attention is drawn towards fall in quorum, then
the presiding officer shall wait for one hour and if the quorum is not present even within it, the presiding officer shall
postpone the meeting to such time and day for the next week as he may fix. The venue for the meeting to be held for the
next week shall, generally be the same which was fixed for the postponed meeting. If that venue is not available for any
reason, then the Ward Member, as per provisions under rule 4, may take a decision, on his own discretion, to conduct
the meeting at any other place. Information regarding venue, place and time of the meeting to be held in the next week
Page 3/7
----- PAGE 4 -----
Bihar Ward Sabha & Ward Implementation and Management Committee Conduct of Business Rules,...
shall be given again to all the members of the Ward Sabha in accordance with rule 5. Quorum for the meeting after the
postponed meeting for want of quorum also shall be one tenth of the total member of the Ward Sabha or fifty members
and the same agenda shall be considered and disposed of which were to be tabled before the postponed meeting.
7.
Presiding over the meeting.
- Each of the meetings of the Ward Sabha shall be presided over by the Ward Member. If the Ward Member fails to
come in the meeting due to some reason, the meeting shall be presided over by such member of Ward Sabha who may
be elected, for the purpose, by majority of votes of the members present in the meeting.
8.
Resolution.
- Any resolution concerned with any of the subjects, conferred under the Act to the Ward Sabha shall be passed by the
majority of members present and voting in the meeting of the Ward Sabha .
9.
Agenda for the meetings of Ward Sabha.
(1)
In addition to the subjects under consideration in the meeting under sub section (4) of section 170 A of the Act, the
following subjects may also be included in the agenda of the meeting:-
(a)
Confirmation of the proceedings of the preceding meeting of Ward Sabha;
(b)
Compliance of the proposals considered/passed in the last meeting of the Ward Sabha;
(c)
Proposal for action to be taken by Ward Sabha in discharge of its rights and responsibilities with regard to formulation,
implementation and supervision of different schemes/programmes assigned to the Ward Sabha by different departments
of the Government;
(d)
Information regarding subsequent action taken by Gram Panchayat on the decisions of Ward Sabha;
(e)
To arrange cultural festivals and sports meet to give expression to talents of the people of the locality;
(f)
Measures for increasing income of Gram Panchayat;
(g)
Seeking report from Mukhiya of the Gram Panchayat regarding any specific activity, plan or income and expenditure
concerning the ward;
(h)
Audit observations;
(i)
Comments on Vigilance Committee Reports;
(j)
Activities and schemes executed by the Ward Implementation and Management Committee.
(2)
Following subjects may also be discussed in the meeting of Ward Sabha:-
(a)
Social Audit. - It shall be an important responsibility of the Ward Sabha to conduct a social audit of all the developmental
works so far implemented in the ward. Secretary of the Ward Sabha shall read out in the Ward Sabha details of all the
works and work-wise expenditure, etc, carried out in the ward during last quarter. Besides, discussion shall also be held
on quality of the work executed and physical verification shall also be caused to be made. If any objection is raised by
the members present in the discussion, then Secretary of the Ward Sabha shall enter the same in the register and shall
inform the Executive Officer of Panchayat Samiti and the Mukhiya. Action on such objections shall be ensured by the
Executive Officer of Panchayat Samiti and the Mukhiya in accordance with law. A compliance report shall also be tabled
in the next meeting of the Ward Sabha.
Page 4/7
----- PAGE 5 -----
Bihar Ward Sabha & Ward Implementation and Management Committee Conduct of Business Rules,...
(b)
Social Harmony. - In meetings of the Ward Sabha, discussion shall be held regularly on maintaining social cohesion and
communal harmony.
10.
Records of the Proceedings.
(1)
The proceeding of meeting of Ward Sabha shall be recorded by the Ward Sabha Secretary on the same day. The Ward
Sabha Secretary shall obtain the signatures or thumb impression of the members present at the meeting in a register
maintained for this purpose. The register shall be maintained in Hindi in Devnagari script. The proceedings shall be
signed by the person presiding over the meeting. All papers/documents related to Ward Sabha shall be kept in the
custody of the Ward Member and he shall be solely responsible for its security. Records etc. shall in no case be kept
with the Ward Sabha Secretary or any other member of the Ward Sabha.
(2)
Copies of such proceedings shall be forwarded to the concerned Gram Panchayat within 15 days.
(3)
It shall be responsibility of the Mukhiya and the Panchayat Secretary of the Gram Panchayat to place proceedings of
Ward Sabha meetings received from the wards situated in the Gram Panchayat in the next meeting of Gram Sabha.
Gram Sabha shall deliberate upon the recommendations made in the proceedings of each ward and make
recommendations to the Gram Panchayat for taking appropriate and necessary action in this regard.
(4)
The proceedings of Ward Sabha shall be an integral part of the proceeding of Gram Sabha.
(5)
Gram Sabha generally will not deliberate upon the points concerned with those wards of the Gram Panchayat who have
failed either in conducting the meeting of Ward Sabha on scheduled date or delayed in sending their proceedings within
stipulated period to the Gram Panchayat. But if the Gram Sabha is of the opinion that discussion upon some
points/schemes related to a specific Ward Sabha is necessary, then the Gram Sabha may deliberate upon such
point/scheme even if no proceeding of the specific Ward Sabha is available or no mention of such point/scheme is made
in the proceeding available, and make its recommendation to the Gram Panchayat for taking appropriate action.
11.
Transaction of business.
- The order of the business to be transacted at every general or special meeting shall be decided by the person
presiding over the meeting.
12.
Continuance of meeting.
- If it is not possible to complete discussion on all the items on the date fixed for the Ward Sabha meeting, the meeting
may be continued on any subsequent day within a fortnight. The decision of next date of such meeting shall be taken it
that very meeting.
13.
Regulation of conduct of business.
- The person presiding over the Ward Sabha meeting shall regulate the conduct of business at the meeting and maintain
order. If any member disregards the authority of the presiding person, or is guilty of obstruction or offensive conduct
during the meeting, the presiding person may ask him to behave properly and on his failure to do so direct him to
withdraw from the meeting.
14.
Compliance of proposals/Resolutions of the Ward Sabha.
(1)
The Ward Sabha, after fixing priorities, shall send the proposals, passed in the meeting to the Gram Panchayat and the
Secretary of the Gram Panchayat shall table the same in the very next meeting of the Gram Sabha.
(2)
The Gram Sabha shall consider on the priorities fixed by the Ward Sabha. The Gram Panchayat shall consider the
priorities of the proposals passed by the Gram Sabha while finalizing the selection of developmental schemes of the
Page 5/7
----- PAGE 6 -----
Bihar Ward Sabha & Ward Implementation and Management Committee Conduct of Business Rules,...
Gram Panchayat.
(3)
Compliance report, if any, shall be tabled before the next meeting of the Ward Sabha.
(4)
The Executive Officer of Panchayat Samiti, the Block Panchayat Raj Officer and other officers during their inspection of
the Gram Panchayat shall review progress of the compliance.
15.
Placement of Vigilance Committee Report before Ward Sabha.
- The report of Vigilance Committee of the concerned ward constituted under rule 18 of the Bihar Gram Sabha
(Coordination of Meeting and Procedure for Conduct) Rules, 2012, whenever available, shall be placed in the meeting of
Ward Sabha and the members will be apprised of the points mentioned in the Vigilance Committee Report. The Ward
Sabha may request the Gram Panchayat and concerned authorities for taking follow-up action on the report of the
Vigilance Committee concerned with the ward.
16.
Ward Implementation and Management Committee.
(1)
A Ward Implementation and Management Committee shall be constituted by Ward Sabha from amongst its members for
discharge and implementation of general and financial functions/responsibilities enshrined in the Act.
(2)
Ward Implementation and Management Committee shall consist of 7 (seven) members including the chairman. The
Gram Panchayat Member (Ward Member) shall be exofficio member and chairman of the Committee. The Panch of
Gram Katchahry elected from the Ward and the Ward Sabha Secretary shall be ex-officio members of the Committee.
Provided that in case of the post of Ward Member being vacant, the Mukhiya or Up- Mukhiya if authorised by Mukhiya
shall convene the meeting of Ward Sabha. The Ward Sabha shall select one member from among its members to
function as chairman of the Ward Implementation and Management Committee under purely temporary working
arrangement. The authority of the person chosen as chairman under working arrangement shall automatically cease
after regular election to the post of Ward Member, and the Ward Member so elected shall immediately start functioning
as chairman of the Ward Implementation and Management Committee.
(3)
The remaining members of the Committee shall be selected on the following basis:-
(i)
If Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes families reside in the Ward, at least one member from such families shall be
selected as member of the Committee.
(ii)
If any village organisation or self help group of "Jeevika" is working in the Ward, then one of its representatives shall be
selected as a member of the Committee.
(iii)
The Committee shall consist of at least three women members.
(iv)
Not more than one member from a family shall be selected as member of the Committee.
(4)
The Ward Sabha Secretary selected under sub-rule (4) of Rule-3 shall function as Member Secretary of the Committee.
(5)
The tenure of a Ward Implementation and Management Committee shall be for two years. Members not showing
interest in roles/responsibilities of the Committee or absenting from its three consecutive meetings may be removed
from their membership by a resolution passed by the Ward Sabha. The vacancy caused by such removal from
membership or vacancy caused by resignation or death of any member shall be filled up by the Ward Sabha by
selecting new members for remaining tenure of the Committee.
(6)
All receipts of the Committee shall be deposited or cause to be deposited by opening in its name a Savings Bank
Account at the nearest nationalized bank branch, regional rural bank or any scheduled commercial bank.
Page 6/7
----- PAGE 7 -----
Bihar Ward Sabha & Ward Implementation and Management Committee Conduct of Business Rules,...
(7)
After completion of the tenure of two years, the Ward Sabha shall make fresh selection of members mentioned in
sub-rule (3).
(8)
The accounts of Ward Sabha shall be jointly operated by the Chairman (Ward Member) and Member Secretary. The
records pertaining to the schemes executed by the Committee and the Pass Books along with Cheque Books of the
Bank shall be kept in custody of the chairman (Ward Member).
(9)
Ward Implementation and Management Committee shall mainly discharge the following functions:-
(a)
To generate proposals and determine the priority of schemes and development programmes for consideration of the
Ward Sabha.
(b)
To assist the Ward Sabha in generating awareness on issues like literacy, public sanitation, health, environment,
pollution control etc.
(c)
To select appropriate locations on behalf of Ward Sabha for water supply, public sanitation units and other public
amenity schemes.
(d)
To work under general control of Ward Sabha/Gram Panchayat for prevention of epidemics and natural calamities.
(e)
Execution of schemes/programmes/responsibilities given from time to time by Ward Sabha/Gram
Panchayat/Government.
(f)
To place before the Ward Sabha updated progress report related to functions of the committee.
(10)
The first meeting of the Ward Implementation and Management Committee shall be held immediately after its
constitution, and the date, time and place of subsequent meeting shall be decided in each preceding meeting. The
Committee shall generally meet once in a week, but convening two meeting in a month will be mandatory. The
Chairman shall, upon the written request of one third members of the Committee containing therein the issues for
consideration along with proposed date of meeting, call a special meeting on that date. The quorum for meeting shall be
completed by presence of four members out of total members of the Committee.
(11)
The Committee may, subject to the provisions made in the departmental guidelines, adopt regulation to carry out its
duties and conduct of its meetings.
(12)
In execution of Public Works Schemes, the Committee shall function under the general guidance of the Public Works
Committee constituted under Section 25(1)(vi) of the Act and will also submit reports and returns as required by that
Committee (Public Works Committee) from time to time.
17.
Miscellaneous.
- The State Government may clarify any provision of the Rules by way of notification/order and may remove difficulties
arising out in its implementation,.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 7/7