
----- PAGE 1 -----
Bihar Ayush Steno grapher Cadre Rules, 2018
Bihar Ayush Steno grapher Cadre Rules, 2018
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/169433330/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Bihar - Act
Bihar Ayush Steno grapher Cadre Rules, 2018
BIHAR
India
Bihar Ayush Steno grapher Cadre Rules, 2018
Rule BIHAR-AYUSH-STENO-GRAPHER-CADRE-RULES-2018 of 2018
Published on 4 December 2018
Commenced on 4 December 2018
[This is the version of this document from 4 December 2018.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Bihar Ayush Steno grapher Cadre Rules, 2018
Published vide Notification No. 16/T.2-42/2014-1557(Aa.Chi), Dated 04.12.2018
Last Updated 4th February, 2020
No. 16/T.2-42/2014-1557(Aa.Chi). - In exercise of the powers conferred by proviso to article 309 of the Constitution of
India, the Governor of Bihar is pleased to make the following Rules to regulate the appointment and service -conditions
in the Steno grapher Cadre under the Directorate of Ayush:-
1.
Short title, extent & commencement.
(1)
These Rules may be called the "Bihar Ayush Steno grapher Cadre Rules, 2018".
(2)
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
Bihar Ayush Steno grapher Cadre Rules, 2018
It shall extend to the whole of the State of Bihar.
(3)
It shall come into force at once.
2.
Definitions.
- In these Rules, unless otherwise requires the subject or context in –
(i)
'Government' means Government of Bihar;
(ii)
'Department' means Health Department;
(iii)
'Cadre' means Steno grapher Cadre under the Directorate of Ayush;
(iv)
'Commission' means The Bihar Staff Selection Commission;
(v)
'Appointing Authority' means Principal/Superintendent/Deputy Superintendent (Ten beded Govt. Homoeopathic Hospital,
Patna)/Manager/Research Officer/District Indigenous Medical Officer to the concerned Institution;
(vi)
'Fixed date' means the date of coming into force of these Rules; and
(vii)
'Member' means a person appointed in the cadre and all persons appointed/absorbed before coming into force of these
rules .
3.
Structure of the Cadre.
- Structure of the cadre of Steno grapher shall be as follows:-
Sl. No
Structure of Post
Ladder
1
Steno- Grade III
Basic Category
2
Steno- II
First Ladder of Promotion
3
Steno- Grade I
Second Ladder of Promotion
4.
Strength of the Cadre and Pay Scale.
- The strength of the cadre shall be same as may be determined by the Directorate of Ayush, Health Department, from
time to time and the pay scale and grade pay/ pay level of the posts of this cadre shall be same as may be determined
by the Government, from time to time.
5.
Recruitment.
(1)
The appointment to the basic category posts of this cadre will be made by direct recruitment on the basis of
recommendation of the Commission.
(2)
The appointing authority, will calculate the vacancies on the basis of position as on 1st April of the year, and will be sent
requisition to the Commission latest by 30th April.
(3)
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
Bihar Ayush Steno grapher Cadre Rules, 2018
The Commission shall advertise the vacancies and after selecting the successful candidates on the basis of The
Competitive Examinations, minimum qualifying marks and practical skill test, will recommend the the names of the
candidates in merit order to the appointing authority. The Commission, in consultation with the department, shall
determine the syllabus of the Competitive Examination and qualifying marks. Validity of merit list shall be for one year
from the date of receipt of the recommendation in the department.
(4)
After due screening, the appointing authority shall appoint the candidates for a period of two years on probation.
6.
Qualifications.
(1)
Minimum Educational Qualification-
(a)
Minimum educational qualification for the appointment to the posts of Steno- Grade-III shall be intermediate pass or
equivalent.
(b)
Knowledge of Shorthand and Typing shall be compulsory for the candidates.
(c)
To have basic knowledge of computer and word processing shall be also compulsory for the candidates.
(2)
Test for eligibility –
(a)
The Test of qualifying level of shorthand writing in Hindi will be 80 words per minute for 4 minutes. One minute will be
given for trial dictation before final dictation test. Twenty minutes will be given for typing of dictation. Two minute time will
be given for correction before typing of dictation. The correction of typing of dictation will be done within the fixed time of
typing. For being successful in typing of dictation, errors should not be more than 10% otherwise they will be declared
disqualified.
(b)
Besides the Shorthand test, candidates shall have to type 300 words in ten minutes at the rate of 30 words per minute
on computer. For being successful in typing errors should not be more than 1.5 % otherwise they will be declared
disqualified.
(c)
For recruitment, the minimum age shall be 18 years and the maximum age-limit shall be the same as may be
determined by the State Government (General Administration Department), from time to time.
7.
Reservation.
- Compliance of provisions, of reservation/roster notified for direct recruitments and promotion, by the State Government
(General Administration Department) from time to time, shall be necessary.
8.
Probation period.
- Each appointment shall be on the probation for two years and in special circumstances. If the probation period is not
found satisfactory, it may be extended for one year with reasons to be recorded in writing, by the appointing authority.
Such period extension will be made only when in the opinion of the Appointing Authority, the improvement in the
probationer is possible. If the service is not found satisfactory in extended period also, then the Appointing Authority may
terminate the service of the candidate.
9.
Departmental Examination and Confirmation.
(1)
Departmental examination shall be organized by the Central Examination Committee of Board of Revenue in every year.
Subject, syllabus and process of The Departmental Examination will be determined by the Central Examination
Committee of Board of Revenue.
(2)
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
Bihar Ayush Steno grapher Cadre Rules, 2018
After satisfactory completion of probation period, training and passing of Departmental examination, the services of
appointed personnel, may be confirmed in the cadre by the Appointing Authority.
10.
Seniority.
- The inter-se seniority of the members of the cadre shall be determined according to the merit list determined by the
Commission However, the inter-se-seniority determined before coming into force of these Rules shall remain
unchangeable.
11.
Level of cadre.
- The cadre will be of district level.
12.
Promotion.
- Promotion from basic category to higher category, on completion of Kalawadhi determined by the Government
(General Administration Department) from time to time, may be given on the basis of recommendation of the Promotion
Committee, constituted by the appointing authority of the concerned institution . It shall also be necessary to comply with
other rules/process prescribed by the "General Administration Department” in the stage of promotion.
13.
Removal of difficulties.
- The Department may issue, after consultation with the Law Department, such general or special instructions, from time
to time, which is necessary to remove the difficulty coming in implementation of any of the provisions of these Rules.
14.
Interpretation.
- Where any doubt arises in interpretation of any provisions of these Rules, it shall be referred to the Department by the
Directorate of AYUSH and in this respect, after consultation with the Law Department, decision of the Department shall
be final.
15.
Repeal & Savings.
(1)
All resolutions, and instructions issued earlier, from time to time, by the Department with respect to this cadre are hereby
repealed.
(2)
Notwithstanding such repeal, any work done or any action taken under the said resolutions, instructions shall be
deemed to be done or taken under these Rules as if these Rules were in force on the date on which such work was
done or such action was taken.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4