
----- PAGE 1 -----
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES (BIHAR AMENDMENT) ACT, 2020
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES (BIHAR AMENDMENT) ACT, 2020
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/31541459/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Bihar - Act
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES (BIHAR AMENDMENT) ACT, 2020
BIHAR
India
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES (BIHAR AMENDMENT) ACT, 2020
Act 15 of 2020
Published in Bihar Gazette on 18 November 2020
Commenced on 18 November 2020
[This is the version of this document from 18 November 2020.]
(An Act further to amend the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947)
Whereas, the Covid-19 pandemic has deteriorated the Industrial and Economic activities in the State of Bihar and for
providing impetus to the Industrial and Economic activities in the State, it is important to provide new opportunities for
Industrial investment in the State;
And whereas, the Governor is satisfied that circumstances exist which render it necessary for him to take immediate
action;
And whereas, it has been promulgated as an Ordinance in the light of the instruction received from the President :
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Bihar in the Seventy First year of the Republic of India as follows :-
1.
Short Title, Extent and Commencement.?
(1)
This Act may be called the Industrial Disputes (Bihar Amendment) Act, 2020.
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES (BIHAR AMENDMENT) ACT, 2020
(2)
It shall extent to the whole of the State of Bihar
(3)
It shall come into force at once.
2.
Amendment of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947.?
(1)
In the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, in section 25 K, for the words "one hundred", the words "three hundred" shall be
substituted.
(2)
In the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, after the sub section 36 (B), the following section shall be added, namely:-
"36-C (Power to exempt new industries in public interest)- Where the State Government in satisfied in relation to any
new industrial establishment or new undertaking or class of new industrial establishments or new undertaking that it is
necessary in the public interest to do so, it may, by notification in the official Gazette, exempt, conditionally or
unconditionally, any such new establishment or new undertaking or class of new establishments or new undertaking
from all or any of the provisions of this Act for a period of one thousand days from the date of the establishment of such
new industrial establishment or new undertaking or class of new establishments or new undertakings, as the case may
be"
Explanation:- For the puposes of this section, the expression "new industrial establishment or new undertaking or class
of new industrial establishment or new undertakings"means such industrial establihsment or undertaking or class of
industrial establishemnts or undertakings which are established within a period of one thousand days after the
commencement of the Industrial Disputes (Bihar Amendment) Act, 2020.
3.
Validation.? Notwithstanding such amendment in section 25 K and the section 36 of the Act, anything done and decision
and action taken prior to it shall be deemed to have been validly done or taken and shall not be questioned on the
ground of amendment of section 25 K and the section 36 of the Act.
4.
Repeal and Savings.?
(i)
The Industrial Disputes (Bihar Amendment) Ordinance, 2020. (Bihar Ordinance No-07- 2020 is hereby repealed.
(ii)
Notwithstanding such repeal, any thing done or any action takent in exercise of any power conferred by or under the
said ordinance shall be deemed to have been done or taken in exercise of the powers conferred by or under this Act as
if this Act were in force on the days on which such thing was done or action taken.
By Order of the Governor of Bihar,
P.C.Choudhary,
Secretary to the Government.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2