
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Chandigarh (Delegation of Powers) Act, 1987
The Chandigarh (Delegation of Powers) Act, 1987
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/34465667/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
5
]
UT Chandigarh - Act
The Chandigarh (Delegation of Powers) Act, 1987
CHANDIGARH
India
The Chandigarh (Delegation of Powers) Act, 1987
Act 02 of 1988
Published in Gazette of India on 3 January 1988
Not commenced
[This is the version of this document from 3 January 1988.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
An Act to provide for the delegation of powers vested in the Administrator of the Union territory of Chandigarh.
BE it enacted by Parliament in the Thirty-eighth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
1.
Short title and extent.-
(1)
This Act may be called the Chandigarh (Delegation of Powers) Act, 1987.
(2)
It extends to the whole of the Union territory of Chandigarh.
2.
Definition.-
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, "Administrator" means the administrator of the Union territory of
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Chandigarh (Delegation of Powers) Act, 1987
Chandigarh appointed by the President under article 239 of the Constitution.
3.
Delegation of powers, etc., vested in Administrator.-
(1)
Any power, authority or jurisdiction or any duty which the Administrator may exercise or discharge under any law in force
in the Union territory of Chandigarh may be exercised or discharged also by such officer or other authority as may be
specified in this behalf by the Central Government or the Administrator by notification in the Official Gazette.
(2)
The Administrator may transfer any appeal or application for revision or any other matter pending before him for disposal
to an officer or other authority competent under sub-section (1) to dispose of the same.
(3)
The Administrator may withdraw for disposal by himself any appeal or application for revision or any other matter
pending before an officer or other authority competent under sub-section (1) to dispose of the same.
4.
Validation.-
Notwithstanding any judgment, decree or order of any court or tribunal or other authority to the contrary, where any
power, authority or jurisdiction or any duty which the Administrator may exercise or discharge under any law in force in
the Union territory of Chandigarh had been exercised or discharged by any officer or other authority before the
commencement of this Act, such power, authority, jurisdiction or duty shall be deemed to have been validly and
effectively exercised or discharged by such officer or other authority as if the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 3
were in force at all material times when such power, authority or jurisdiction was exercised or such duty was discharged
and that officer or other authority had been specified as an officer or other authority by the Central Government or the
Administrator in that behalf under the said sub-section, and accordingly, no suit or other proceeding shall be instituted,
maintained or continued in any court or tribunal or before other authority on the ground that such officer or other
authority was not competent to exercise such power, authority or jurisdiction or to discharge such duty.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2