
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Goa, Daman and Diu Laying of Rules Before Legislature Act, 1980
The Goa, Daman and Diu Laying of Rules Before Legislature Act, 1980
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/156762458/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Goa - Act
The Goa, Daman and Diu Laying of Rules Before Legislature Act, 1980
GOA
India
The Goa, Daman and Diu Laying of Rules Before Legislature Act, 1980
Act 5 of 1980
Published on 6 May 1980
Commenced on 6 May 1980
[This is the version of this document from 6 May 1980.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Goa, Daman and Diu Laying of Rules Before Legislature Act, 1980
(Act
No. 5 of 1980
)
[Dated 6-5-1980]
LD/1866/80. - An Act to provide for laying of rules framed by Government before Legislature and for matters incidental
thereto.
Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of Goa, Daman and Diu in the Thirty-first Year of the Republic of India as
follows:-
1.
Short title and commencement.
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Goa, Daman and Diu Laying of Rules Before Legislature Act, 1980
(1)
This Act may be called the Goa, Daman and Diu Laying of Rules before Legislature Act, 1980.
(2)
It shall come into force at once.
2.
Definitions.
- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Act" means a legislation enacted by the Legislature;
(b)
"Government" means the Government of Goa, Daman and Diu;
(c)
"Legislature" means the Legislative Assembly of Goa, Daman and Diu;
(d)
"Official Gazette" means the Official Gazette of Goa, Daman and Diu;
(e)
"Union territory" means the Union territory of Goa, Daman and Diu.
3.
Laying of rules made by Government before Legislature.
(1)
On and from the date of commencement of this Act, all rules made by Government under an Act shall, as soon as may
be after they are made, be laid before the Legislature while it is in session for a total period of not less than fourteen
days, which may be comprised in one session or two or more successive sessions, and shall, unless some later date is
appointed, take effect from the date of their publication in the Official Gazette subject to such modification or annulment
as the Legislature may, during the said period, agree to make, so however, that any such modification or annulment,
shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done thereunder.
(2)
Where any Central Act, in force in or applicable to Union territory confers power on the Government to make rules
thereunder, then subject to any express provisions to the contrary in such Central Act, the provisions of sub-section (1)
shall mutatis mutandis apply to the rules made by the Government in exercise of that power.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2