
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Goa Public Men's Corruption (Investigations and Inquiries) Powers of Commission Rules,...
The Goa Public Men's Corruption (Investigations and Inquiries)
Powers of Commission Rules, 1993
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/77932648/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Goa - Act
The Goa Public Men's Corruption (Investigations and Inquiries) Powers of Commission Rules, 1993
GOA
India
The Goa Public Men's Corruption (Investigations and Inquiries) Powers of Commission Rules, 1993
Rule
THE-GOA-PUBLIC-MEN-S-CORRUPTION-INVESTIGATIONS-AND-INQUIRIES-POWERS-OF-COMMISSION-RULES-
1993 of 1993
Published on 14 June 1993
Commenced on 14 June 1993
[This is the version of this document from 14 June 1993.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Goa Public Men's Corruption (Investigations and Inquiries) Powers of Commission Rules, 1993
Published vide Notification No. 1/26/80-VIG-VOL-1, dated 14th June, 1993
1.
/26/80-VIG-VOL-I. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 32 of the Goa Public Men's Corruption (Investigations
and Inquiries) Act, 1988 (Act
7 of 1991
), the Government of Goa hereby makes the following rules so as to specify the powers of the Commission, namely:-
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Goa Public Men's Corruption (Investigations and Inquiries) Powers of Commission Rules,...
1. Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Goa Public Men's Corruption (Investigations and Inquiries) Powers of Commission Rules,
1993.
(2)
They shall come into force at once.
2. Definition.
- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(i)
"Act" means the Goa Public Men's Corruption (Investigations and Inquiries) Act, 1988 (Act
7 of 1991
);
(ii)
Words and expressions used but not defined in these rules, and defined in the Act, shall have the meanings respectively
assigned to them in the Act.
3.
Conditions of Service of Counsel appointed by the Commission.
- The fees payable to and the duties, rights and liabilities of Counsel appointed by the Commission to assist it under
sub-section (6) of section 13 of the Act shall be the same as are applicable to the Public Prosecutor/Government
Advocate appointed by the State Government:
Provided that, it shall be competent for the Commission, in special circumstances of a particular case or considering the
nature of the work for which the Counsel is appointed, to sanction the payment of fees at a higher rate or a consolidated
fee to the Counsel appointed by it.
4.
Powers of Commission under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act 5 of 1908).
(1)
The Commission or any officer authorised in this behalf by the Commission shall have the powers of a Civil Court while
trying a suit under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act 5 of 1908), in respect of the following matters,
namely:-
(a)
to grant injunction;
(b)
to issue commission for local inspection;
(c)
to make, during the pendency of any complaint any interlocutory order as may appear to the Commission to be just and
necessary to meet the ends of justice;
(d)
to allow amendment of the complaints or applications;
(e)
to add as parties the legal representatives of a deceased party in any complaint pending before it, subject to the
provisions of Order XXII of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act 5 of 1908), in so far as they are applicable;
(f)
to review its decisions or orders on interlocutory applications;
(g)
to dismiss a complaint for default or to decide it ex-parte;
(h)
to set aside an order of dismissal of a complaint for default or any order passed ex-parte.
(2)
The period of limitation for an application to implead the legal representatives of a party shall be ninety days from the
date of his death.
(3)
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Goa Public Men's Corruption (Investigations and Inquiries) Powers of Commission Rules,...
The period of limitation for applications under clauses (f) and (h) of sub-rule (1) shall be thirty days from the date of the
decision or order.
(4)
The provisions of section 5 of the Limitation Act, 1963 (Central Act 36 of 1963), shall be applicable to applications
mentioned in clauses (e), (f) and (h) of sub-rule (1).
5.
Powers of Commission to correct errors.
- . (1) The Commission may at any time correct any clerical or arithmetical error in a report, declaration, decision or
order arising from any accidental slip or omission, either suo motu or on application.
(2)
Subject to the provisions of section 153 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act 5 of 1908), the Commission
may at any time and on such terms as to costs or otherwise as it may think fit, amend any defect or error in any
proceedings in a petition.
6.
Power to strike out or add parties.
- The Commission may, at any stage of the proceedings in a complaint either suo-motu or on application, delete the
name of any party-improperly joined or, add as party any person who ought to have been joined or whose presence
before the Commission is felt necessary in order to enable the Commission, to decide effectively and completely the
question involved in any complaint and the provision of rule 10 of Order I of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central
Act 5 of 1908), shall, as far as may be, apply to such deletion or addition of parties.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3