
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Goa (Extension of the Orphanages and Other Charitable Homes (Supervision and Control) ...
The Goa (Extension of the Orphanages and Other Charitable Homes
(Supervision and Control) Act) Act, 1993
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/13333836/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Goa - Act
The Goa (Extension of the Orphanages and Other Charitable Homes (Supervision and Control) Act) Act, 1993
GOA
India
The Goa (Extension of the Orphanages and Other Charitable Homes (Supervision and Control) Act) Act, 1993
Act 15 of 1994
Published on 4 August 1994
Commenced on 4 August 1994
[This is the version of this document from 4 August 1994.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Goa (Extension of the Orphanages and Other Charitable Homes (Supervision and Control) Act) Act, 1993
(Goa Act
No. 15 of 1994
)
[Dated 4-8-1994]
7.
-18-93/LA. - An Act to provide for the extension of the Orphanages and Other Charitable Homes (Supervision and
Control) Act, 1960 to the State of Goa.
Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of Goa in the Forty-fourth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Goa (Extension of the Orphanages and Other Charitable Homes (Supervision and Control) ...
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
This Act may be called the Goa [Extension of the Orphanages and Other Charitable Homes (Supervision and Control)
Act] Act, 1993.
(2)
It shall come into force at once.
2.
Extension of the Orphanages and Other Charitable Homes (Supervision and Control) Act, 1960 to the State of Goa.
- The Orphanages and Other Charitable Homes (Supervision and Control) Act, 1960 (Central Act 10 of 1960), as in
force in the territories to which it generally extends, is hereby extended to the State of Goa.
3.
Repeal and savings.
- So much of any law in force in the State of Goa as corresponds to the Orphanages and Other Charitable Homes
(Supervision and Control) Act, 1960 (Central Act 10 of 1960), shall stand repealed as from the date of coming into force
of this Act in the State of Goa:
Provided that the repeal shall not affect-
(a)
the previous operation of any law so repealed or anything duly done or suffered thereunder; or
(b)
any right, privilege, obligation or liability acquired, or incurred under any law so repealed; or
(c)
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred in respect of any offence committed against any law so repealed; or
(d)
any investigation, legal proceeding or remedy in respect of any such right, privilege, obligation or liability, penalty,
forfeiture or punishment, as aforesaid; and any such investigation, legal proceeding or remedy may be instituted,
continued or enforced and any such penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be imposed as if this Act had not been
passed:
Provided further that subject to the preceding proviso, anything done or any action taken (including any rule made)
under any law so repealed shall, so far as they are consistent with the said Act, be deemed to have been done or taken
under the corresponding provisions of the said Act as extended to the State of Goa by this Act and shall continue to be
in force accordingly unless and until superseded by anything done or any action taken under the said Act.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2