
----- PAGE 1 -----
Surveillance of Bad Characters
Surveillance of Bad Characters
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/51320742/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Jammu-Kashmir - Act
Surveillance of Bad Characters
JAMMU & KASHMIR
India
Surveillance of Bad Characters
Rule SURVEILLANCE-OF-BAD-CHARACTERS of 1892
Published on 2 January 1892
Commenced on 2 January 1892
[This is the version of this document from 2 January 1892.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Surveillance of Bad Characters
Published vide Notification No. 13, Dated 28th Kartik, 1949
[Sanctioned by His Highness the Maharaja Sahib Bahadur in council under State Council Resolution No. 29 dated 2nd
January, 1892]
1.
Every person whose name is entered in Register No. 10 pertaining to bad characters shall obtain a permit ticket from the
Police Station concerned when he intends to go to some other place from his place of residence and wherever he
sleeps for the night he shall report to the office-in-charge of the Police Station of that lllaqa or in his absence to the
Lambardar or Chowkidar that he is bad character of such name and description and on that ticket shall get the
attestation of the officer-in-charge of the Police Station or signature of the Lambardar or Chowkidar as the case may be.
On his return he shall get it attested that he stayed there for so many days. On his return to his residence he shall
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
Surveillance of Bad Characters
produce that ticket in the Police Station concerned wherefrom it was issued.
Whosoever infringes the aforesaid rule shall be liable to punishment for offence under section 188 Ranbir Panel Code
(disobeying order duly promulgated).
As to the circumstances under which name of a person shall be entered in Register No. 10, separate detailed Rules will
be issued by the General Department for guidance.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2