
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Public Servants (Inquiries) Act, 1977
The Public Servants (Inquiries) Act, 1977
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/156787958/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
38
]
State of Jammu-Kashmir - Act
The Public Servants (Inquiries) Act, 1977
JAMMU & KASHMIR
India
The Public Servants (Inquiries) Act, 1977
Rule THE-PUBLIC-SERVANTS-INQUIRIES-ACT-1977 of 1977
Published on 11 September 1920
Commenced on 11 September 1920
[This is the version of this document from 11 September 1920.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Public Servants (Inquiries) Act, 1977
(Act No. 28 of Svt. 1977)
[Sanctioned by his Highness the Maharaja Sahib Bahadur per Chief Minister's endorsement No. 8372, dated 11th
September, 1920 read with State Council Resolution No. 1, dated 8th April, 1925, Notification No. 14-L/81)].
For regulating inquiries into the behaviour of Public Servants.
Whereas it is expendient to amend the law for regulating inquiries into the behaviour of public servants not removable
from their appointments without the [sanction of the Government or any of the Ministers]
[Substituted by Act X of 2010 for 'sanction of His Highness or any of his Ministers'.]
, and to make the same uniform throughout [the territories of the State]
[Substituted by Act X of 2010 for 'the territories under His Highness'.]
; It is enacted as follows
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Public Servants (Inquiries) Act, 1977
1.
Short title, extent and commencement.
(1)
This Act may be called the Public Servants, Inquires Act, 1977.
(2)
It extends to the whole of Jammu and Kashmir State. It shall come into force on the 1st day of Baisakh, 1978.
2.
Article of charge to be drawn out for public inquiry into conduct of certain public servants.
- Whenever the Government shall be of opinion that there are good grounds for making a formal and public inquiry into
the truth of any imputation of misbehaviour by any person in the service of the Government not removable from his
appointment without the sanction of [the Government or any of the Ministers]
[Substituted by Act X of 2010 for 'His Highness or any of his Minister'.]
, it shall cause the substance of the imputations to be drawn into distinct articles of charge, and shall order a formal and
public inquiry to be made into the truth thereof.
3.
Authorities to whom inquiry may be committed. Notice to accused.
- The inquiry may be committed either to the Court, Board or other authority to which the person accused is subordinate,
or to any other person or persons, to be specially appointed by the Government, Commissioners for the purpose, notice
of which commission shall be given to the person accused ten days at least before the beginning of the inquiry.
4.
Conduct of Government prosecution.
- When the Government shall think fit to conduct the prosecution, it shall nominate some person to conduct the same on
its behalf.
5.
Charge of accuser to be written and verified. Penalty for false accusation. Institution of inquiry by the Government.
- When the charge shall be brought by an accuser the Government shall require the accusation to be reduced to writing,
and verified by the oath or solemn affirmation of the accuser; and every person who shall wilfully and maliciously make
any false accusation under this Act, upon such oath or affirmation, shall be liable to the penalties of perjury; but this
enactment shall not be construed to prevent the Government from instituting any inquiry which it shall think fit, without
such accusation on oath or solemn affirmation as aforesaid.
6.
Security from accuser left by Government to prosecute.
- When the imputations shall have been made by an accuser, and the Government shall think fit to leave to him the
conduct of the prosecution, the Government before appointing the commission shall require him to furnish reasonable
security that he will attend and prosecute the charge thoroughly and effectually and also will be forthcoming to answer
any countercharge or action which may be afterwards brought against him for malicious prosecution or perjury or
subordination of perjury as the case may be.
7.
Power of Government to abandon prosecution and to allow accuser to continue it.
- At any subsequent stage of the proceedings, the Government may, if it think fit, abandon the prosecution, and in such
case may, if it think fit, on the application of the accuser, allow him to continue the prosecution, if he is desirous of so
doing, on his furnishing such security as is hereinbefore mentioned.
8.
Powers of Commissioners, their protection, Service of their process Powers of Court, etc., acting under commission.
- The Commissioners shall have the same power of punishing contempt and obstructions to their proceedings, as is
given to Civil and Criminal Courts by the Code of Criminal Procedure, and shall have the and powers for the summons
of witnesses, and for compelling the production of documents, and for the discharge of their duty under the
commission,and shall be entitled to the same protection as the District and subordinate Judges, except that all process
to cause the attendance of witnesses or other compulsory process shall be served through and executed by the District
or Subordinate Judge in whose jurisdiction the witness or other person resides, on whom the process is to be served.
When the commission has been issued to a Court, or other person or persons having power to issue which process in
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Public Servants (Inquiries) Act, 1977
the exercise of their ordinary authority, they may also use all such power for the purposes of the commission.
9.
Penalty for disobedience to process.
- All person disobeying any lawful process issued as aforesaid for the purposes of the commission shall be liable to the
same penalties as if the same had issued originally from the Court or other authority through whom it is executed.
10.
Copy of charge and list to he furnished to accused.
- A copy of articles of charge, and list of the documents and witnesses by which each charge is to be sustained, shall be
delivered to the person accused, at least three days before the beginning of the inquiry, exclusive of the day of delivery
and the first day of the inquiry.
11.
Procedure at beginning of inquiry.
- At the beginning of the inquiry the prosecutor shall exhibit the articles of charge to the Commissioners, which shall be
openly read,and the person accused shall thereupon be required to plead "guilty" or "not guilty" to each of them which
please shall be forthwith recorded with the articles of charge. If the person accused refuses, or without reasonable
cause neglects, to appear to answers the charge either personally or by his counsel or agent, he shall be taken to admit
the truth of the articles of charge.
12.
Prosecutor's right of address.
- The prosecutor shall then be entitled to address the Commissioners in explanation of the articles of charge, and of the
evidence by which they are to be proved; his address shall not be recorded.
13.
Evidence for prosecution and examination of witnesses, Re-examination by prosecutor.
- The oral and documentary evidence of the prosecution shall then be exhibited: the witnesses shall be examined by or
on behalf of the prosecutor and may be cross-examined by or on behalf of the person accused. The prosecutor shall be
entitled to re-examine the witnesses on any points on which they have been cross-examined, but not on any new matter,
without leave of the Commissioners who also may put such questions as they think fit.
14.
Power to admit or call for new evidence for prosecution. Accused's right to adjournment.
- If it shall appear necessary before the close of the case for the prosecution, the Commissioners may in their discretion
allow the prosecutor to exhibit evidence not included in the list given to the person accused, or may themselves call for
new evidence, and in such case the person accused shall be entitled to have, if he demand it, an adjournment of the
proceedings for three clear days, before the exhibition of such new evidence exclusive of the day of adjournment and of
day to which the proceedings are adjourned.
15.
Defence of accused, to be recorded only when written.
- When the case for the prosecution is closed, the person accused shall be required to make this defence. orally or in
writing, as he shall prefer. If made orally, it shall not be recorded, if made in writing, it shall be recorded, after being
openly read, and in that case a copy shall be given at the same time to the prosecutor.
16.
Evidence for defence, and of examination of witnesses.
- The evidence for the defence shall then be exhibited, and the witness examined, who shall be liable to
cross-examination and re-examination and to examination by the Commissioners according to the like rules as the
witnesses for the prosecution.
17.
Omitted.
18.
Notes of oral evidence.
- The Commissioners or some person appointed by them shall take notes in English or Vernacular of all the oral
evidence, which shall be read aloud to each witness by whom the same was given, and, if necessary, explained to him
in the language in which it was given, and shall be recorded with proceedings.
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Public Servants (Inquiries) Act, 1977
19.
Inquiry when dosed with defence. Prosecutor when entitled to reply and give evidence. Accused not entitled to
adjournment.
- If the person accused makes only an oral defence, and exhibits no evidence, the inquiry shall end with his defence; if
he records a written defence, or exhibits evidence, the prosecutor shall be entitled to a general oral reply on the whole
case, and may also exhibit evidence to contradict any evidence exhibited for the defence, in which case the person
accused shall not be entitled to any adjournment of the proceedings. Although such new evidence were not included in
the list furnished to him.
20.
Power to require amendment of charge and to adjourn. Reasons for refusing adjournment to be recorded.
- When the Commissioners shall be of opinion that the articles of charge or any of them, are not drawn with sufficient
clearness and precision, the Commissioners may, in their discretion, require the same to be amended, and may
thereupon, on the application of the persons accused, adjourn the inquiry for a reasonable time. The Commissioners,
may also, if they think fit, adjourn the inquiry for time to time, on the application either the prosecutor or the person
accused, on the ground of sickness or unavoidable absence of any witness or other reasonable cause. When such
application is made and refused, the Commissioners shall record the application, and their reason for refusing to comply
with it.
21.
Report of Commissioners proceedings.
- After the close of the inquiry the commissioners shall forthwith report to Government their proceedings under the
commission, and shall send with the record thereof their opinion upon each of the articles of charge separately, with
such observations as they think fit on the whole case.
22.
Power to call for further evidence or explanation. Inquiry into additional articles of charge. Reference of report of Special
Commissioners, Final orders.
- The Government, on consideration of the report of the Commissioners, may order them to take further evidence, or
given further explanation of their opinions. It may also order additional articles of charge to be framed, in which case the
inquiry into truth of such additional articles shall be made in the same manner as is herein directed with respect to the
original charges. When Special Commissioners have been appointed, the Government may also, if it think fit, refer the
report of the Commissioners to the court or other authority to which the person accused in subordinate for their opinion
on the case; and will finally pass such orders thereon as appear just and consistent with its powers in such cases.
23.
Powers of Government under this Act by whom exercisable.
- The powers of the Government under this Act, may in all cases be exercised by [the Council of Minister]
[Substituted by Act X of 2010 for 'His Highness'.]
, and when the person accused can be removed from his appointment by a Minister in the State, those powers may also
be exercised by that Minister.
24.
[ Authority of Government not effected.
[Section 24 substituted by Act X of 1996.]
- Nothing in this Act shall be construed to effect the authority of Government for suspending or removing any public
servant for any case without any inquiry under this Act.]
25.
Omitted.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4