
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Sapphire Act, 1989 (1932 A. D.)
The Sapphire Act, 1989 (1932 A. D.)
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/130763303/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Jammu-Kashmir - Act
The Sapphire Act, 1989 (1932 A. D.)
JAMMU & KASHMIR
India
The Sapphire Act, 1989 (1932 A. D.)
Act 16 of 1989
Published on 10 October 1932
Commenced on 10 October 1932
[This is the version of this document from 10 October 1932.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Sapphire Act, 1989 (1932 A. D.)
Act
No. 16 of 1989
[Sanctioned by His Highness the Maharaja Bahadur vide Development Department Notification No. 2 dated 10th
October, 1932 and published in Government Gazette dated 12th Katik, 1989.]
An Act to Prohibit the unlicensed possession of sapphires and other precious stones within the territories of Jammu and
Kashmir State.
Whereas it is expedient to prevent theft of precious stones from mines within the State, to prohibit and punish the
unlicensed possession thereof and particularly the theft of stones from the Paddar Mines, transport thereof in the State
and export [to any place outside the State]
[Substituted by A.L.O., 2008 for 'in the British territory'.]
Page 1/5
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Sapphire Act, 1989 (1932 A. D.)
by persons not licensed for the purpose; It is hereby commanded as follows:-
1.
Short title, extent and commencement.
- (i) The Act may be called the Sapphire Act, 1989.
(ii)
It shall extend to the whole of the Jammu and Kashmir State.
(iii)
It shall come into operation immediately.
2.
Definitions.
- In this Act, unless there is something repugnant to the context, the following words shall have the meanings attached
to them:-
(a)
"precious stone" means corundum sapphire and ruby and includes any other stone which [the Government may by a
notification in the Government Gazette declare]
[Substituted by Act X of 1996 for the words 'may by command of His Highness the Maharaja Bahadur and by notification
in the Jammu and Kashmir Government Gazette be declared'.]
to be a precious stone for the purposes of this Act;
(b)
"sapphire or ruby" means sapphire or ruby from the Paddar mines or elsewhere within the State territories which is in a
crude condition, either as more or less complete crystals, such as appear in the pegmatite matrix, or broken fragments
as are obtained from the detritus on the hill side ;
(c)
"export" means the taking out of the Jammu and Kashmir State territories to any place outside such territories;
(d)
"transport" means the removal from one place to another within the territories of the Jammu and Kashmir State;
(e)
"Minster-in-charge" means a [Minister of the Government]
[Substituted by Act X of 2010 for 'Minister of His Highness Government'.]
for the time being in charge of the Mining and Mineral Survey Department;
(f)
"vessel" includes anything for the conveyance of property ;
(g)
"Magistrate" means a Magistrate of the first or second class or any official or person specially empowered by [the
Government]
[In sections 2, 8 and 19 the words 'the Government' substituted for words 'His Highness the Maharaja Bahadur' by Act X
of 1996.]
to try cases under this Act;
(h)
"State territory" means the territory of the Jammu and Kashmir State;
(i)
"Mineral Survey Officer" means and includes the mining office of the Mineral Survey Department and any other officer of
that Department higher in rank or any officer empowered by [the Government]
[In sections 2, 8 and 19 the words 'the Government' substituted for words 'His Highness the Maharaja Bahadur' by Act X
of 1996.]
by name or by office to carry out all or any of the purposes of this Act;
(j)
"Police Officer" means and includes all officers of the Police Department of and above the rank of a constable;
(k)
"Customs and Excise Officer" means and includes every officer of the Department of and above the rank of a jamadar;
(l)
Page 2/5
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Sapphire Act, 1989 (1932 A. D.)
"Revenue Officer" means any officer of the Revenue Department of and above the rank of a lambardar;
(m)
"Forest Officer" means and includes every office of that Department of and above the rank of a forest guard;
(n)
"sapphire offence" means any offence punishable under this Act.
3.
Precious stones to be the property of the State.
- All sapphires and rubies and all precious stones as defined above found any where within the State territory after three
months from the date of the promulgation of this Act shall be deemed to be the property of the State, unless title thereof
is vested in any person in accordance with the rules made under this Act.
4.
Prohibition as to keeping or retaining in possession buying or selling sapphire or ruby within the State after three months
from promulgation of this Act.
- Except as permitted by the Minister-in-charge or under any rules promulgated under this Act, no one shall have, keep
or retain in his possession or custody any sapphire or ruby within the State territory after three months from the
promulgation of this Act, or buy or sell or be otherwise a party to the transfer of any sapphire or ruby or a precious stone
as defined above or transport it or dig cut or dress it.
5.
Penalty.
- Whoever, does any of the acts prohibited by section 4 above shall, on conviction by a [Judicial Magistrate]
[Substituted by Act XL 2 of 1966 for 'Magistrate'.]
be punishable with imprisonment of either description which may extend to two years or fine which may extend to Rs.
5.000, or both.
6.
Offences congnizable and non-bailable.
- All offences under this Act shall be cognizable and non-bailable.
7.
Officers authorised to prevent commission of offences.
- Every Mineral Survey Officer, Forest Officer, Police Officer, Customs and Excise Officer and Revenue Officer shall
prevent, and may interfere for the purpose of preventing the commission of any sapphire offence under this Act.
8.
Officers authorised to seize sapphire or ruby or detain search or arrest suspected person when offence committed.
- When there is reason to believe that an offence under this Act has been committed, any Mineral Survey Officer or any
Forest Officer above the rank of Ranger or any Police Officer not below the rank of Sub-Inspector or any Officer of the
Revenue Department not below the rank of Naib-Tehsildar, or any other officer specially authorised by [the Government]
[In sections 2, 8 and 19 the words 'the Government' substituted for words 'His Highness the Maharaja Bahadur' by Act X
of 1996.]
in this behalf may without an order from a Magistrate and without a warrant-
(a)
seize any sapphire or ruby with respect to which offence under this Act is alleged to have been committed, together with
all weapons, materials, tools, boats, carts and cattle believed or alleged to have been used in committing such offence;
(b)
detain, search or arrest any person against whom a reasonable suspicion exists of his being concerned in any offence
under this Act:
Provided that every officer making any arrest under this section shall without any unnecessary delay, take or send the
person arrested to the nearest Magistrate [xxxx]
[Words 'having jurisdiction in the case' omitted by Act XL of 1966.]
or to the officer in charge of the nearest police station;
(c)
detain and search in any open place any cart, car, pack-animal or other conveyance which he has reason to believe to
be used for carrying sapphire or ruby in respect of which an offence under this Act has been committed ; and
Page 3/5
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Sapphire Act, 1989 (1932 A. D.)
(d)
under a warrant issued by a Magistrate to him by name or by virtue of his office enter and search any building, vessel or
place in which he has reason to believe sapphire or ruby to be unlawfully kept or concealed and, in case of resistance,
to break open any door or remove any obstacle to such entry.
9.
Application of Code of Criminal Procedure.
- All warrants issued and all searches made under section 8 shall be executed or made in accordance with the
provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure in force within the State.
10.
Report to Magistrate of seizure of property.
- Every officer seizing any property shall, without any unnecessary delay, make a report of such seizure to the
Magistrate; provided that when the offender is unknown it shall be sufficient for the officer to make, as soon as possible,
a report of the circumstances of such seizure to his immediate superior officer.
11.
Duty of Magistrate.
- Upon the receipt of any such report, the Magistrate shall, with all convenient speed, take such measures as may be
necessary for the arrest or detention and trial of the offender and the disposal of the property according to law.
12.
Confiscation of seized sapphires, rubies, weapons, materials, tools, etc.
- All sapphires or rubies in respect of which an offence under this Act has been committed and all weapons, materials,
tools, vessels and cattle used in committing it shall be liable to confiscation and, on the conclusion of the trial or, in case
of the offender being not known, without any trial shall be made over by the [Judicial Magistrate]
[Substituted by Act XL of 1966 for 'Magistrate'.]
to the Minister-in-charge of any officer appointed by him in writing by a particular or general order. Such confiscation
shall be in addition to any other punishment prescribed for such an offence.
13.
Penalty for vexatious or unreasonable seizure, detention etc.
- Any officer who vexatiously and without reasonable cause seizes any property, retains or searches any person, animal
or conveyance or enters or searches any building vessel or place without any belief that an offence under this Act has
been committed shall be punished with imprisonment of either description which may extend to six months or with fine
which may extend to Rs. 500, or with both.
14.
Person in possession of sapphire or ruby within the State at the commencement of this Act to make over such sapphire
or ruby to an authorised officer, entitled to 30 per cent of the value.
- Notwithstanding anything stated in this Act, any person who has in his possession or custody any sapphires or rubies
within the State territories at the commencement of this Act may make over such sapphires or rubies to the officer duly
authorised for such purpose by the Minister-in-charge within three months of the promulgation of this Act and shall be
entitled to receive 30 per cent of the value of such sapphires or rubies unless he can prove a valid title thereto to the
satisfaction of the officer appointed by the Minister-in-charge in this behalf, in which case he will be entitled to receive
full value of such sapphire or ruby.
No person complying with the provisions of this section shall be liable to prosecution under section 5 and no enquiry
shall be made from him as to the source from which he obtained such sapphire or ruby, unless he volunteers to give this
information in order to prove valid title to such sapphires or ruby.
15.
Value to be determined by Minister-in-charge.
- The value of the sapphires or ruby produced under section 14 by any person shall be determined by the
Minister-in-charge and his assessment shall be final.
16.
Sapphire or ruby to be deemed illicit if not produced as required by section 14.
- Any sapphire or ruby not produced as required by the provisions of section 14 within three months of the promulgation
of this Act shall be deemed to be illicit.
Page 4/5
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Sapphire Act, 1989 (1932 A. D.)
17.
Reward to informer.
- Any person who is not State official and gives information which leads to the seizure of sapphires or rubies as defined
in this Act, shall be entitled to a reward not exceeding 30 per cent, of the seized sapphire or ruby as the
Minister-in-charge may determine.
18.
Report of Mineral Survey Officer to be used as evidence.
- Any document purporting to be a report under the hand of any Mineral Survey Officer of the State upon any sapphire or
ruby duly submitted to him for examination and report in the course of any proceedings under this Act, may be used as
evidence in any enquiry, trial or other proceedings under this Act.
19.
Application of the provision of this Act to any other mineral.
- [The Government]
[In sections 2, 8 and 19 the words 'the Government' substituted for words 'His Highness the Maharaja Bahadur' by Act X
of 1996.]
may, by a notification printed in the Jammu and Kashmir Government Gazette, apply the provisions of this Act to any
mineral other than sapphire or ruby.
20.
Rule making power.
- The Minister-in-charge may make rules consistent with the provisions of this Act for the carrying out of the objects of
this Act.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 5/5