
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Identification of Prisoners Act, 1994 (1937 A. D.)
The Identification of Prisoners Act, 1994 (1937 A. D.)
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/1380313/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Jammu-Kashmir - Act
The Identification of Prisoners Act, 1994 (1937 A. D.)
JAMMU & KASHMIR
India
The Identification of Prisoners Act, 1994 (1937 A. D.)
Rule THE-IDENTIFICATION-OF-PRISONERS-ACT-1994-1937-A-D of 1937
Published on 23 August 1937
Commenced on 23 August 1937
[This is the version of this document from 23 August 1937.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Identification of Prisoners Act, 1994 (1937 A. D.)
Act No. 4 of Svt. 1994
[Received the assent of His Highness the Maharaja Bahadur on 23rd August, 1937, corresponding to 8th Bhadon, 1994,
and published in Government Gazette dated 8th Assuj, 1994.]
Whereas it is expedient to authorise the taking of measurements and photographs of convicts and others ; It is hereby
enacted as follows -
1.
Short title and extent.
- (i) This Act may be called the Identification of Prisoners Act No. IV of 1994.
(ii)
It extends to the whole of Jammu and Kashmir State.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Identification of Prisoners Act, 1994 (1937 A. D.)
2.
Definitions.
- In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in thee subject or context,-
(a)
"measurements" includes finger impressions and foot print impressions:
(b)
"Police officer" means an officer in charge of Police Station, a police officer making an investigation under Chapter XIV
of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1989, or any other Police officer not below the rank of Sub-Inspector ; and
(c)
"prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this Act.
3.
Taking of measurement, etc., of convicted persons.
- Every person who has been-
(a)
convicted of any offence punishable with rigorous imprisonment for a term of one year or upwards, or of any offence
which would render him liable to enhanced punishment on a subsequent conviction, or
(b)
ordered to give security for his good behaviour under section 118 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1989, shall if so
required, allow his measurements and photograph to be taken by a Police officer in the prescribed manner.
4.
Taking of measurements, etc., of non-convicted persons.
- Any person who has been arrested in connection with an offence punishable with rigorous imprisonment for a term of
one year or upwards shall, if so required by a Police officer, allow his measurements to be taken in the prescribed
manner.
5.
Power of Magistrate to order a person to be measured or photographed.
- If a Magistrate is satisfied that, for the purposes of any investigation or proceeding under the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1989, it is expedient to direct any person to allow his measurements or photograph to be taken, lie may
make an order to that effect, and in that case the person to whom the order relates shall be produced or shall attend at
the time and place specified in the order and shall allow his measurements or photograph to be taken, as the case may
be, by a Police officer :
Provided that, no order shall be made directing any person to be photographed except by a Magistrate of the first class :
Provided further that, no order shall be made under this section unless the person has at some time been arrested in
connection with such investigation or proceeding.
6.
Resistance to the taking of measurements, etc.
(1)
If any person who under this Act is required to allow his measurements or photograph to be taken resists or refuses to
allow the taking of the same, it shall be lawful with permission of a Magistrate to use all means necessary to secure the
taking thereof.
(2)
Resistance to or refusal to allow the taking of measurements or photographs under this Act shall be deemed to be an
offence under section 186 of the Ranbir Penal Code.
7.
Destruction of photographs and records of measurements, etc., on acquittal.
- Where any person who, not having been previously convicted of an offence punishable with rigorous imprisonment for
a term of one year or upwards, has had his measurements taken or has been photographed in accordance with the
provisions of this Act is released without trial or discharged or acquitted by any Court, all measurements and all
photographs (both negatives and copies) so taken shall unless the Court or (in a case where such person is released
without trial) the District Magistrate for reasons to be recorded in writing otherwise directs, be destroyed or made over to
him.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Identification of Prisoners Act, 1994 (1937 A. D.)
8.
Power to make rules.
(1)
The Government may make rules for the purpose of carrying into effect the provisions of this Act.
(2)
In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provisions, such rules may provide for-
(a)
restrictions on the taking of photographs of persons under section 5 ;
(b)
the place at which measurements and photographs may he taken ;
(c)
the nature of the measurements that may be taken ;
(d)
the method in which any class or classes of measurements shall be taken :
(e)
the dress to be worn by a person when being photographed under section 3 ; and
(f)
the preservation, safe custody, destruction and disposal of records of measurements and photographs.
9.
Bar of suits.
- No suit or other proceeding shall lie against any person for anything done or intended to be done, in good faith under
this act or under any rule made thereunder.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3