
----- PAGE 1 -----
Sher-I-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences, (Grant of Degrees) Act, 1983
Sher-I-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences, (Grant of Degrees) Act,
1983
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/129207680/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
1
]
State of Jammu-Kashmir - Act
Sher-I-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences, (Grant of Degrees) Act, 1983
JAMMU & KASHMIR
India
Sher-I-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences, (Grant of Degrees) Act, 1983
Act 12 of 1983
Published on 13 August 1983
Commenced on 13 August 1983
[This is the version of this document from 13 August 1983.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Sher-I-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences, (Grant of Degrees) Act, 1983
Act
No. 12 of 1983
[Received (he assent of the Governor on 13th August, 1983 and is hereby published for General information.]
An Act to provide for grant of degrees, diplomas, certificates and other distinctions by the institute known as
Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences, Soura, Srinagar.
Whereas the objects of the institute are such as to empower it to grant degrees, diplomas, certificates and other
distinctions.
Be it enacted by the Jammu and Kashmir State Legislature in the Thirty-fourth Year of the Republic of India as follows :
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
Sher-I-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences, (Grant of Degrees) Act, 1983
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
This may be called the Sher-i-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (Grant of Degrees) Act, 1983.
(2)
It shall come into force on such date as the Government may, by notification in the Government Gazette, appoint.
2.
Definitions.
- In this Act unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Government" means the Government of Jammu and Kashmir;
(b)
"Institute" means the institute known as Sher-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences, Soura, Srinagar.
3.
Power of Institute.
- Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, the institute shall have and exercise
the following powers and perform the following duties, namely:-
(a)
to provide for instruction and research in such branches of science of modem medicines and other allied sciences
including physical and biological sciences, as the institute may think fit;
(b)
to hold examinations and grant degrees, diplomas and other academic distinctions and titles;
(c)
to confer honorary degree or other distinctions;
(d)
to fix, demand and receive fees and other incidental charges as may be prescribed by the regulations;
(e)
to do all such other acts and things as may be necessary, incidental and conducive to the attainment of any of the
aforesaid duties.
4.
Institute to be a University.
- The institute shall for the purposes of section 3 of this Act, be deemed to be a University as if established by an Act of
the Jammu and Kashmir State Legislature.
5.
Power to make regulations.
- The institute may make regulations to carry out the purposes of this Act.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2