
----- PAGE 1 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Judicial Officers (Allowance, Amenities and Advances) Rules, 2015
Jammu and Kashmir Judicial Officers (Allowance, Amenities and
Advances) Rules, 2015
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/190511864/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Jammu-Kashmir - Act
Jammu and Kashmir Judicial Officers (Allowance, Amenities and Advances) Rules, 2015
JAMMU & KASHMIR
India
Jammu and Kashmir Judicial Officers (Allowance, Amenities and Advances) Rules, 2015
Rule JAMMU-AND-KASHMIR-JUDICIAL-OFFICERS-ALLOWANCE-AMENITIES-AND-ADVANCES-RULES-2015 of
2015
Published on 1 January 2015
Commenced on 1 January 2015
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 2015.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Jammu and Kashmir Judicial Officers (Allowance, Amenities and Advances) Rules, 2015
Published vide Notification No. SRO-334, Srinagar, dated 23rd of September, 2015
SRO-334. - In pursuance of sub-rule (4) of rule 12 of the Jammu and Kashmir Judicial Officers (Allowance, Amenities
and Advances) Rules, 2007, the Government in consultation with the Jammu and Kashmir High Court makes the
following rules for grant of Leave Travel Concession/Home Travel Concession for Judicial Officers of the State :-
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Judicial Officers (Allowance, Amenities and Advances) Rules, 2015
These rules may be called the Jammu and Kashmir Judicial Officers (Allowance, Amenities and Advances) Rules, 2015.
(2)
They shall be deemed to have come into force from 01-01-2014.
2.
Entitlement.
(a)
The Judicial Officer may claim Leave Travel Concession on completion of two years of continuous service and after
successful completion of the period of probation ;
(b)
Leave Travel Concession to any part of India can be availed by a Judicial Officer once in a block of four years ;
(c)
The block of four years, for these rules shall be deemed to have started from 2014-2017 and so on ;
(d)
Home Travel Concession can be availed of for any destination in the State of Jammu and Kashmir only if the Judicial
Officer has already put in not less than two years of continuous service on the date he/she applies for such concession ;
(e)
A Judicial Officer shall be entitled to Home Travel Concession once in a block of two years, which these rules shall be
deemed to have started from 2014-2015 ;
(f)
The Judicial Officer may claim Leave Travel Concession or Home Travel Concession for the journey by himself/herself,
spouse, minor children and unmarried daughter(s) ;
(g)
The family shall be allowed to avail of the facility in one go and not in batches. Where the spouse of the Judicial Officer
is serving with the State Government, or in judicial service, the facility shall be availed only once during a block of 4
years ;
(h)
No request by a Judicial Officer for cash payment in lieu of Leave Travel Concession/Home Travel Concession shall
either be entertained or allowed.
3.
Mode of Travel.
- The entitlement for journeys and mode of travel shall be as applicable to journeys on tour in terms of TA Rules
contained in J&K CSRs Vol-I.
4.
Sanctioning Authority.
(a)
The High Court of Jammu and Kashmir shall be the Sanctioning Authority for purposes of Leave Travel
Concession/Home Travel Concession and shall allow the concession to the Judicial Officers on first applied first
sanctioned basis but subject to availability of budgetary provision for the purpose ;
(b)
The facility of concession shall strictly follow the reimbursement mode. The reimbursement shall be restricted to actual
fare incurred for permissible mode/class of travel by the shortest direct route and to be made only on production of cash
vouchers in original.
5.
Any matter not covered under these rules or under the Jammu and Kashmir Judicial Officers (Allowance, Amenities and
Advances) Rules, 2007 shall be dealt with, in accordance with the provisions under Central Civil Services (LTC) Rules,
1988. However, entitlement for journey shall be as per rules in the respective States as recommended by the Shetty
Commission i. e. in Jammu and Kashmir, they shall be governed by the travel rules of the State.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2