
----- PAGE 1 -----
Arrests And Detentions (Validating) Act, Svt. 2006
Arrests And Detentions (Validating) Act, Svt. 2006
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/78595266/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Jammu-Kashmir - Act
Arrests And Detentions (Validating) Act, Svt. 2006
JAMMU & KASHMIR
India
Arrests And Detentions (Validating) Act, Svt. 2006
Act 1 of 1949
Published in Gazette 1 on 9 January 2017
Assented to on 9 January 2017
Commenced on 9 January 2017
[This is the version of this document from 9 January 2017.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Arrests And Detentions (Validating) Act, Svt. 2006
Act No. 1 of SVT. 2006 (1949 AD)
An Act to validate certain orders authorising arrests and detentions of suspected persons.
Whereas it is expedient to validate certain orders issued under section 3 of the Jammu and Kashmir Public Security Act
and rule 24 of the Defence Rules relating to arrests and detention of suspected persons by individuals and authorities
not authorised to do so but such individuals and authorities bona fide believed that they were so authorised and were
competent under the law;
Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers reserved under section 5 of the Jammu and Kashmir Constitution Act, 1996,
His Highness is pleased to enact as follows :-
1.
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
Arrests And Detentions (Validating) Act, Svt. 2006
Short title, extent and commencement
(1)
This Act may be called the Arrests and Detentions (Validating) Act, 2006.
(2)
It shall extend to the whole of the Jammu and Kashmir State.
(3)
It shall come into force at once.
2.
Orders validated
Any order authorising detention or extending the period of detention for a period exceeding two months or authorising
detention in places other than those specified by the Government under section 3 of the Public Security Act or releasing
the detenues before the expiry of their terms of detention or any order authorising arrest or detention of a suspected
person under rule 24 of the Jammu and Kashmir Defence Rules, passed by any person or an officer not authorised to
do so or by the Minister-in-charge, Internal Security, Law and Order, during the period beginning with 30th October,
1947, and ending with the date of passing of this Act, shall be deemed to have been passed by the Government under
section 3 of the Public Security Act or under rule 24 of the Defence Rules, as the case may be, and shall not be open to
the objection that it was passed by an unauthorised person.
3.
Bar of legal proceedings
No Suit or other legal proceedings, whatsoever, whether civil or criminal, shall lie in any Court of law against any
individual or authority for or on account of or in respect of any arrest, detention or extension in the period of detention or
detention of the detenues in places other than those specified by the Government under section 3 of the Public Security
Act or their premature release from the custody or in respect of any arrest or detention under rule 24 of the Defence
Rules, made or ordered or purporting to have been made or ordered in good faith by any such individual or authority for
the purpose of maintaining public order or securing the defence of the State, between 30th October, 1947 and the date
of enforcement of this Act, when such individuals or authorities bona fide this believed that they were authorised by the
Government in this behalf.
4.
Certificate a conclusive proof of good faith
For the purposes of section 3 of the Public Security Act and rule 24 of the Defence Rules, a certificate by or under the
authority of the Government that the said order was made by such individual or authority in good faith and bona fide
believing that he was authorised by the Government in this behalf, shall be conclusive proof thereof.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2