
----- PAGE 1 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/97574122/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Jammu-Kashmir - Act
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
JAMMU & KASHMIR
India
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
Rule JAMMU-AND-KASHMIR-COMBINED-COMPETITIVE-EXAMINATION-RULES-2018 of 2018
Published on 23 February 2018
Commenced on 23 February 2018
[This is the version of this document from 23 February 2018.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
Published vide Notification No. SRO-103, dated 23.2.2018
SRO-103. - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to section 124 of the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir,
the Governor hereby makes the following rules for the conduct of Combined Competitive Examination by the Public
Service Commission, namely :-
1.
Short title and application.
(1)
These rules may be called the Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018.
(2)
These rules shall apply to the conduct of Combined Competitive Examination by Public Service Commission for direct
Page 1/100
----- PAGE 2 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
recruitment to the following services :-
(i)
Junior Scale of J&K Administrative Service ;
(ii)
J&K Police (Gazetted) Service ;
(iii)
J&K Accounts (Gazetted) Service.
2.
Definitions.
- In these rules unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Available Vacancies" mean the vacancies available in the direct recruitment quota of the services mentioned in rule 1 to
be filled on the basis of Combined Competitive Examination ;
(b)
"Commission" means the Jammu and Kashmir Public Service Commission ;
(c)
"Examination" means the Combined Competitive Examination for recruitment to the direct recruitment posts of the
services specified in rule 1;
(d)
"Fee" means the fee which may be charged by the Commission from a candidate for the Preliminary/Main Examination ;
(e)
"Government" means Government of Jammu and Kashmir ;
(f)
"List" means the list of candidates prepared on the basis of merit in the examination for the various services and posts.
Explanation. - Candidates shall be allotted to various services and posts keeping in view their merit in the examination
and the preferences expressed by them for various services and posts ;
(g)
"Preference" means preference, for being selected for a service or post for which examination is being held under these
rules, in the order in which these are mentioned by the candidate in the application form prescribed by the Commission
;-
(h)
"Rules" means the Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018 ;
(i)
"State" means the Jammu and Kashmir State.
3.
Conduct of examination.
(1)
The examination shall be conducted by the Commission in accordance with the provisions of Jammu and Kashmir
Public Service Commission (Conduct of Examination) Rules, 2005.
(2)
The dates on which and the places at which the Preliminary and Main Examination will be held shall be fixed by the
Commission.
4.
Duration of examinations.
- The examination shall be held at such intervals as the Government may in consultation with the Commission from time
to time determine, but at least once in a calendar year unless there are good and sufficient reasons for not doing so and
preferably, as far as practicable, after 15 days from the completion of UPSC Civil Services examination at each stage.
5.
Indicating preference.
(1)
A candidate shall be required to indicate in his/her application form for the Main Examination his/her order of
Page 2/100
----- PAGE 3 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
preferences for various services/posts for which he/she would like to be considered for appointment in case he/she is
recommended for appointment by the Commission.
(2)
No change in preference of services once indicated by a candidate would be permitted.
Explanation. - The candidate has to be very careful while indicating preferences for various services/posts. The
candidate has to indicate all the services/posts in the order of preference in his/her application form. In case he/she
does not give any preference for any services/posts, it will be assumed that he/she has no specific preference for those
services. If he/she is not allotted to any one of the services/posts for which he/she has indicated preference, he/she shall
be allotted to any of the remaining services/posts in which there are vacancies after allocation of all the candidates who
can be allocated to services/posts in accordance with their preferences.
6.
Number of vacancies to be filled up.
- The number of vacancies to be filled on the result of the examination will be specified in the notice issued by the
Commission. Reservation will be made for candidates belonging to the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes,
RBA/Social Castes/ALC and Physically Challenged categories in respect of vacancies as may be fixed by the
Government.
7.
Number of attempts.
- Every candidate appearing in the examination who is otherwise eligible, shall be permitted six attempts at the
examination :
Provided that this restriction on the number of attempts will not apply in the case of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled
Tribes candidates who are otherwise eligible :
Provided further that the number of attempts permissible to candidates belonging to RBA, Social Castes & ALC, who are
otherwise eligible, shall be nine. The relaxation will be available to the candidates who are eligible to avail of reservation
applicable to such candidates :
Provided further that a physically challenged candidate will get as many attempts as are available to other
non-physically challenged candidates of his or her community, subject to the condition that a physically challenged
candidate belonging to the General Category shall be eligible for nine attempts. The relaxation will be available to the
physically challenged candidates who are eligible to avail of reservation applicable to such candidates.
Note : - (I) An attempt at a Preliminary Examination shall be deemed to be an attempt at the Combined Competitive
Examination.
(II)
If a candidate actually appears in any one paper in the Preliminary Examination, he/she shall be deemed to have made
an attempt at the Examination.
(III)
Notwithstanding the disqualification/cancellation of candidature, the fact of appearance of the candidate at the
examination will count as an attempt.
8.
Conditions of eligibility.
(1)
In order to be eligible to compete in the examination, a candidate must satisfy the following conditions, namely :-
(i)
that he is a permanent resident of the State ;
(ii)
that he has attained the age of 21 years but not attained the age of 32 years on 1st January of the year in which
notification inviting applications is issued by the Commission :
Provided that the upper age limit shall be 34 years, in case of the following :-
(a)
Candidates belonging to Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes/ RBA/Social Castes/ALC ;
(b)
Candidates holding a civil post in the State in substantive capacity :
Page 3/100
----- PAGE 4 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
Provided that the upper age limit for physically challenged candidates shall be 35 years irrespective of the category to
which such a candidate belongs.
Provided further that a candidate who has completed 02 years service on 1st January of the year in which notification
inviting applications is issued by the Commission in substantive capacity to be certified by his, Head of Department,
shall alone, be eligible to claim the benefit of upper age limit under clause (b) above :
Provided also that for good and sufficient reasons, to be recorded in writing, the Government may prescribe for any
particular examination any other upper age limit for open category and reserved category candidates.
(iii)
that he holds, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the recruitment rules of various services and posts
mentioned in rule (1), a Bachelor's degree of a recognized University in India or of a foreign University declared by
Government in consultation with the Commission to be equivalent to the degree of a recognized Indian University :
Provided that candidates who have appeared fully in any examination on or before the last date for receipt of application
forms for preliminary examination for such degree from any such University the passing of which would render them
eligible to appear in the examination, but the results of their examination has not been declared, or they have not been
informed of the result, will also be eligible for admission and shall be allowed to appear in the preliminary examination.
All such candidates who are declared qualified by the Commission for taking the Combined Competitive (Main)
Examination shall have to produce proof of passing such examination with their applications for the main examination
failing which such candidates shall not be admitted to the main examination.
Explanation. - Candidates who have passed the final professional M. B.B.S or any other Medical Examination but have
not completed their internship by the time of submission of their applications for the Combined Competitive (Main)
Examination, will be provisionally admitted to the Examination provided they submit along with their application a copy of
certificate from the concerned authority of the University/Institution that they had passed the requisite final professional
medical examination. In such cases, the candidates will be required to produce at the time of their interview original
degree or a certificate from the concerned competent authority of the University/ Institution that they had completed all
requirements (including completion of internship) for the award of the Degree :
Provided further that in respect of candidate for J&K Police (Gazetted) Service, the candidate should possess the
following physical standards also, namely :-
I. For Males :
(a) Height
:
165cm
(b) Chest girth minimum
:
84cm Expansion 5cm
II. For Females :
(a) Height
:
150cm
(b) Chest girth minimum
:
79cm Expansion 5cm
III. For candidates from Leh/Kargil
A For Males :
(i) Height
:
160cm
(ii) Chest girth
:
79cm Expansion 5cm minimum
B. For Females :
(i)
Page 4/100
----- PAGE 5 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
Height
:
145cm
(ii)
Chest girth minimum
:
74cm
Expansion 5cm :
Provided also the candidate(s) already holding a civil post in the State shall submit their application through Head of
Office with an advance copy of the application directly to Commission and in case the Commission receives an
intimation withholding permission from the employer in respect of a candidate who has applied for, or is appearing in the
Combined Competitive Examination, his/her application shall be rejected and candidature cancelled. Such a candidate
may, however, be allowed to appear in the examination as fresh candidate subject to the condition that the said
candidate is otherwise eligible under rules.
Explanation. - The expression "Civil post in the State" mentioned above means a post in any departmental service under
the State and includes the posts in the High Court of J&K and J&K State Legislature.
(2)
Candidate must pay the fees prescribed in the Commission's notice.
(3)
The decision of the Commission as to the eligibility or otherwise of a candidate for admission to the examination shall be
final. The candidates applying for the examination should ensure that they fulfil all the eligibility conditions for admission
to the Examination. Their admission at all the stages of examination for which they are admitted by the Commission viz.
Preliminary Examination, Main (Written) Examination and Personality Test (Interview) will be purely provisional, subject
to their satisfying the prescribed eligibility conditions. If on verification at any time before or after the Preliminary
Examination, Main (Written) Examination and Personality Test (Interview), it is found that they do not fulfil any of the
eligibility conditions, their candidature for the examination will be cancelled by the Commission.
(4)
No candidate will be admitted to the Preliminary/ Main Examination unless he holds a certificate of admission for the
Examination.
(5)
No request for withdrawal of candidature received from a candidate after he has submitted his application will be
entertained under any circumstances.
9.
Documents to be furnished by the candidates for the Combined Competitive (Preliminary) Examination.
- A candidate shall not be required to submit any certificate relating to his/her age, educational qualification, certificate of
belonging to reserved category and holding of a civil post in the State, at the time of filling his/her application (OMR)
form for the Combined Competitive (Preliminary) Examination. The admission to the preliminary examination shall be
purely provisional and if on verification at any stage, it is found that the candidate has claimed eligibility for such
examination by misrepresentation, concealment of any material fact(s) or impersonation or fraud, his or her candidature
shall be cancelled and he/she will be liable to prosecution/disciplinary action by the Commission.
10.
Securing candidature by illegal means.
- A candidate who is or has been declared by the Commission to be guilty of :-
(i)
Obtaining support for his candidature by the following means, namely :-
(a)
offering illegal gratification to ; or
(b)
applying pressure on ; or
(c)
blackmailing, or threatening to blackmail any person connected with the conduct of the examination ; or
Page 5/100
----- PAGE 6 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
(ii)
impersonation ; or
(iii)
procuring impersonation by any person; or
(iv)
submitting fabricated documents or documents which have been tampered with ; or
(v)
making statements which are incorrect or false or suppressing material information ; or
(vi)
resorting to the following means in connection with his candidature for the examination, namely :-
(a)
obtaining copy of question paper through improper means ;
(b)
finding out the particulars of the persons connected with secret work relating to the examination ;
(c)
influencing the examiners ; or
(vii)
using unfair means during the examination ; or
(viii)
writing obscene matter or drawing obscene sketches in the scripts ; or
(ix)
misbehaving in the examination hall including tearing of the scripts, provoking fellow examinees to boycott examination,
creating a disorderly scene and the like ; or
(x)
harassing or doing bodily harm to the staff employed by the Commission for the conduct of their examination ; or
(xi)
being in possession of or using any mobile phone, pager or any electronic equipment or device or any other equipment
capable of being used as a communication device during the examination ; or
(xii)
violating any of the instructions issued to candidates along with their admission certificates permitting them to take the
examination ; or
(xiii)
attempting to commit or, as the case may be, abetting the commission of all or any of the acts specified in the foregoing
clauses ; may in addition to rendering himself liable to criminal prosecution, be liable :-
(a)
to be disqualified by the Commission from the Examination for which he is a candidate ; and/or
(b)
to be debarred either permanently or for a specified period :-
(i)
by the Commission, from any examination or selection held by them ;
(ii)
by the State Government from any employment under them ; and
(c)
if he is already in service under Government to disciplinary action under the appropriate rules :
Provided that no penalty under this rule shall be imposed except after :-
(i)
giving the candidate an opportunity of making such representation in writing as he may wish to make in that behalf ; and
(ii)
taking the representation, if any, submitted by the candidate within the period allowed to him into consideration.
11.
Seeking reservations.
Page 6/100
----- PAGE 7 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
- Candidates seeking reservation/ relaxation benefits available for SC/ST/RBA/Social Castes/ALC/Physically Challenged
Candidates must ensure that they are entitled to such reservation /relaxation as per eligibility prescribed in the Rules.
They should also be in possession of all the requisite certificates in the prescribed format in support of their claim as
stipulated in the Rules for such benefits, and these certificates should be dated earlier than the due date (closing date)
of the application of Combined Competitive (Preliminary) Examination.
12.
Documents to be furnished by the candidates for the Combined Competitive (Main) Examination.
- Besides furnishing the documents that may be required by the Commission, the applications for the main examination
shall be accompanied by attested copies of the following certificates :-
(a)
Permanent resident of the State ;
(b)
Academic qualification ;
(c)
Age and Character ;
(d)
Category Certificate, in case of candidates belonging to any reserved category.
Note : - (i) No certificate except the Matriculation certificate or an equivalent certificate thereto on the date of the
submission of the application shall be admitted as proof of age and no subsequent request for its change will be
considered or granted.
(ii)
Character certificate shall mean a certificate issued by the Head of the Education Institute or by the University last
attended by the candidate or by any gazetted officer of the State. In case of a candidate already in Government Service,
the Character certificate shall mean a certificate issued by his Controlling Officer.
(iii)
A candidate will be eligible to get the benefit of reservation under a particular reserved category indicated by him in his/
her application form for Combined Competitive (Preliminary) Examination. If a candidate indicates in his/her application
form for Combined Competitive (Preliminary) Examination that he/she belongs to General category but subsequently
writes to the Commission to change his/her category to a reserved one, such request shall not be entertained by the
Commission. Similar principle will be followed for physically challenged categories also.
Explanation - While the above principle will be followed in general, there may be a few cases where there was a little
gap (say 2-3 months) between the issuance of a Government Notification enlisting a particular community in the list of
any of the reserved communities and the date of submission of the application by the candidate. In such cases, the
request of change of community from general to reserved may be considered by the Commission on merit. In case of a
candidate unfortunately becoming physically challenged during the course of the examination, the candidate should
produce valid documents to enable the Commission to take a decision in the matter on merit :
Provided that the application forms submitted either for the Combined Competitive (Preliminary) or Main Examination,
incomplete in any manner shall be rejected without notice to the candidate(s). However, the Commission shall notify the
list of such candidates whose candidature is rejected on account of incomplete forms.
13.
Examination.
- The Combined Competitive Examination shall comprise of two successive stages :-
(i)
Combined Competitive (Preliminary) Examination (Objective Type) for the selection of candidates for Main Examination ;
and
(ii)
Combined Competitive (Main) Examination (Written and Interview) for the selection of candidates for the various
services and posts.
14.
Preliminary Examination.
(1)
Page 7/100
----- PAGE 8 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
The Preliminary Examination will consist of two papers of objective type (multiple choice questions) and carry a
maximum of 400 marks as set out in part (A) of Appendix-I, as per the detailed syllabus in Appendix-II (Part-A). This
examination is meant to serve as a screening test only. The marks obtained in the Preliminary Examination shall count
only for short-listing of the candidates for the Main examination.
(2)
Candidates who obtain such minimum qualifying marks in the General Studies Paper-I of Preliminary Examination as
may be fixed by the Commission at their discretion and a minimum of 33% marks in General Studies Paper-II of
Combined Competitive (Preliminary) Examination shall be admitted to the Main Examination. The Commission will draw
a list of candidates to be qualified for Combined Competitive (Main) Examination based on the criterion of minimum
qualifying marks of 33% in General Studies Paper-II of Combined Competitive (Preliminary) Examination and total
qualifying marks of General Studies Paper-I of Combined Competitive (Preliminary) Examination as may be determined
by the Commission. Questions pertaining to the State of J&K may also be asked in Paper I of the Combined Competitive
(Preliminary) Examination.
(3)
There will be negative marking for incorrect answers (as detailed below) for all questions :-
(i)
There are four alternatives for the answers to every question. For each question for which a wrong answer has been
given by the candidate, one-third (0.33) of the marks assigned to that question will be deducted as penalty ;
(ii)
If a candidate gives more than one answer, it will be treated as a wrong answer even if one of the given answers happen
to be correct and there will be same penalty as above for that question ;
(iii)
If a question is left blank i.e. no answer is given by the candidate, there will be no penalty for that question.
(4)
The number of candidates to be admitted to the Main Examination shall be, as far as practicable, 1/3rd of the total
number of candidates who appeared in the preliminary examination or twenty five times the total number of vacancies to
be filled in the various services and posts, whichever is lower :
Provided that the Commission will draw a list of candidates qualified for Combined Competitive (Main) Examination
based on the total qualifying marks, as may be determined by the Commission, at their discretion :
Provided further that only those candidates who are declared by the Commission to have qualified in the Preliminary
Examination in the year will be eligible for admission to the Main Examination of that year provided they are otherwise
eligible for admission to the Main Examination.
15.
Main Examination.
(1)
The Main Examination shall consist of written examination and a Personality Test (Interview). The written examination
will consist of eight (8) papers of conventional essay type in the papers set out in part (B) of Appendix-I as per the
detailed syllabus in Appendix-II (part B), out of which one (01) paper will be of qualifying nature :
Provided the Government, in consultation with the Commission, may revise or update the syllabi for the Combined
Competitive Examination from time to time.
(2)
Candidates who obtain such minimum qualifying marks in the written part of the Main Examination as may be fixed by
the Commission at their discretion, in any or all the papers (Paper I to Paper VII) shall be summoned by them for an
interview for a Personality Test, vide part 'C' of Appendix-I.
(3)
A candidate who fails to secure such minimum number of marks as are fixed by the Commission in their discretion in
one or more than one paper, shall, however, not be eligible to be called for Personality Test (interview).
(4)
The number of candidates to be summoned for the Personality Test (interview) will not be more than thrice the number
of vacancies to be filled. The Personality Test (interview) will carry 250 marks (with no minimum qualifying marks).
Failure to appear in the interview shall render a candidate ineligible for being recommended for appointment
Page 8/100
----- PAGE 9 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
notwithstanding the marks obtained by him in the written examination.
(5)
The candidates shall be short-listed for interview on the basis of overall merit obtained by them in the Main Examination
irrespective of the category(ies) to which he/she/they belong :
Provided that if the number of candidates belonging to any reserved category, who qualify for the interview on the basis
of the above shortlisting criteria, falls short of upto three times the number of vacancies reserved for such a category,
the Commission shall call the candidates belonging to such category over and above the number short-listed for
interview.
16.
Merit List.
(1)
Marks thus obtained by the candidates in the Main Examination (written part as well as interview) would determine the
final order of merit. Candidates shall be allotted to the various services keeping in view their inter-se merit in the
examination and the preferences expressed by them for the various services and posts at the time of his/her submission
of the application form for the main examination. The allotment of candidates to various services shall be made by the
Commission in accordance with the rules/regulations in force as applicable to the respective services at the time of
making such allotment and the provisions relating to reservation of posts and appointments for Scheduled Castes,
Scheduled Tribes/RBA/Social Castes/ALC for the time being in force in the State, which shall be strictly adhered to :
Provided that a candidate belonging to a reserved category, though not qualifying by the standard prescribed by the
Commission may be declared suitable for appointment thereto by reduced standards with due regard to the
maintenance of efficiency in administration, and recommended for appointment to vacancies reserved for members of
such class in that service :
Provided also that physically challenged candidates shall be considered for selection in the services and against the
posts identified for their respective categories in terms of "The Jammu and Kashmir Persons with Disabilities (Equal
Opportunities, Protection of Rights and Full Participation) Rules, 2003" and in accordance with their
merit-cum-preference, if otherwise found suitable for selection. The eligibility for availing reservation against the
vacancies reserved for the physically challenged persons shall be the same as prescribed in "The Jammu and Kashmir
Persons with Disabilities (Equal Opportunities, Protection of Rights and Full Participation) Act, 1998" read with
Government Order No. 147-SW of 2014 dated 17-06-2014 or such other Government Order/Circular instructions, as
applicable at the relevant point of time :
Provided further that the minimum qualifying marks as specified herein above may be relaxable at the discretion of the
Commission in favour of physically challenged candidates in order to fill up the vacancies reserved for them.
(2)
The form and manner of communication of the results of the examination to the individual candidates shall be decided
by the Commission in their discretion.
17.
Medical fitness.
- A candidate must be in good mental and bodily health and free from any physical defect likely to interfere with the
discharge of his duties as an officer of the service. A candidate who after such medical examination as Government may
prescribe is found not to satisfy these requirements will not be recommended by the Commission for appointment. The
medical examination shall be conducted by the Commission before forwarding the select list to the government in
accordance with the rules:
Provided that Medical Board shall intimate the nature and degree of disability of physically challenged candidate in
terms of "The Jammu and Kashmir Persons with Disabilities (Equal Opportunities, Protection of Rights and Full
Participation) Act, 1998" and Rules made thereunder as amended from time to time with specific recommendation, if
any, in respect of each of such candidate(s) for appointment to various posts through the Combined Competitive
Examination :
Provided further that Government may constitute a Special Medical Board with experts in the area for conducting the
medical examination of Physically Challenged candidates.
Explanation. - Instructions to appear before Medical Board shall not be deemed to mean that a candidate for direct
recruitment if found fit is necessarily given an appointment. The medical examination will be conducted by a Medical
Page 9/100
----- PAGE 10 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
Board to be arranged by the Commission in accordance with Appendix- III for the candidates for J&K Police (Gazetted)
Service and Appendix-IV for other candidates. The candidates will have to pay a fee as prescribed from time to time to
the Medical Board.
18.
Determination of order of merit in the event of a tie.
- In the event of a tie, the order of merit shall be determined in accordance with the highest marks secured in the
Personality Test (interview). Should the marks in the Personality Test (interview) Test of the candidates be also equal,
the order of merit shall be decided in accordance with the highest marks obtained by such candidates in the aggregate
of the compulsory paper. However, in case the marks obtained in compulsory papers are also equal, the order of merit
shall be determined in accordance with the marks obtained in General Studies Papers. Similarly, if the marks obtained in
General Studies Papers be also equal, then the order of merit shall be determined in descending order of the date of
birth of the candidates.
19.
Record of satisfaction by the Government.
- Success in the examination confers no right to appointment unless Government is satisfied after such enquiry as may
be considered necessary that the candidate is suitable in all respects for appointment to the service.
20.
Repeal and savings.
(1)
All rules corresponding to these rules including SRO-387 dated 1st of December 2008, shall in so far they are
inconsistent with these rules, stand repealed.
(2)
Notwithstanding such repeal, any order made or action taken under the provisions of the rules so repealed shall be
deemed to have been made or taken under the corresponding provisions of these rules.
Appendix I
Scheme and Subjects For The Preliminary And Main Examination
A. Preliminary Examination :
The Examination shall comprise of two papers of 200 marks each.
Note : - (i) Both the question papers will be of the objective type (multiple choice questions) ;
(ii)
The General Studies Paper-II of the Combined Competitive (Preliminary) Examination will be a qualifying paper with
minimum qualifying marks fixed at 33% ;
(iii)
The question papers will be set in English :
(iv)
Each paper will be of two hours duration. Blind candidates and the candidates with Locomotor Disability and Cerebral
Palsy where dominant (writing) extremity is affected to the extent of slowing the performance or function (minimum of
40% impairment) will however ; be allowed an extra time of twenty minutes per hour for each paper.
B. Main Examination :
1. The written
examination will consist of the following papers :-
Qualifying Paper :
English
300 Marks
Papers to be counted for merit :
Paper-I
Essay
250 Marks
Paper-II
General Studies-I
250 Marks
Page 10/100
----- PAGE 11 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
(Indian Heritage and Culture, History and Geography of the World
and Society)
Paper-III
General Studies -II
250 Marks
(Governance, Constitution, Polity, Social Justice and
International relations)
Paper-IV
General Studies-III
250 Marks
(Technology, Economic Development, Bio-diversity, Environment,
Security and Disaster Management)
Paper-V
General Studies-IV
250 Marks
(Ethics, Integrity and Aptitude)
Paper-VI
Optional Subject - Paper -I
250 Marks
Paper-VII
Optional Subject - Paper-II
250 Marks
Sub-Total (Written test)
1750 Marks
Personality Test (interview)
250 Marks
Grand
Total :
2000 Marks
Note :-(i) The paper on English will be of Matriculation or equivalent standard and will be of qualifying nature. The marks
obtained in this paper will not be counted for ranking ;
(ii)
Evaluation of the papers, namely, 'Essay', 'General Studies' and Optional Subject of all the candidates would be done
simultaneously along with evaluation of their qualifying paper on English but the papers on 'Essay', General Studies and
Optional Subject of only such candidates will be taken cognizance of who obtain 25% marks in 'English' as minimum
qualifying standard in this qualifying paper ;
(iii)
Marks obtained by the candidates for the Paper I-VII only will be counted for merit ranking. However, the Commission
will have the discretion to fix qualifying marks in any or all of these papers.
2. Candidates may choose any one of the optional subjects from amongst the list of the subjects given below :-
(1)
Agriculture ;
(2)
Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Science ;
(3)
Anthropology ;
(4)
Botany ;
(5)
Chemistry ;
(6)
Page 11/100
----- PAGE 12 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
Civil Engineering ;
(7)
Commerce and Accountancy ;
(8)
Economics ;
(9)
Electrical Engineering ;
(10)
Geography ;
(11)
Geology ;
(12)
History ;
(13)
Law ;
(14)
Management ;
(15)
Mathematics ;
(16)
Mechanical Engineering ;
(17)
Medical Science ;
(18)
Philosophy ;
(19)
Physics ;
(20)
Political Science and International Relations ;
(21)
Psychology ;
(22)
Public Administration ;
(23)
Sociology ;
(24)
Statistics ;
(25)
Zoology ;
(26)
Literature of any one of the following languages :
Arabic, Dogri, English, Hindi, Kashmiri, Persian, Punjabi, Sanskrit and Urdu.
Note : - I. The question papers of the examination will be of conventional (essay) type.
II. Each paper will be of three hours duration.
III. The details of the syllabi are set out in Appendix-II.
C. Personality Test (Interview) :
1. The candidate will be interviewed by a panel of Members of the Commission who will have before them a record of
his/her career. He/she will be asked questions on matters of general interest. The object of the interview is to assess the
personal suitability of the candidate for a career in public service. The interview test is intended to judge the mental
calibre of a candidate. In broad terms, this is really an assessment of not only his intellectual qualities but also social
traits and his interest in current affairs. Some of the qualities to be judged are mental alertness, critical powers of
Page 12/100
----- PAGE 13 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
assimilation, clear and logical exposition, balance of judgement, variety and depth of interest, ability for social cohesion
and leadership, intellectual and moral integrity.
2. The Commission shall also be assisted during the interview by Expert(s) in Behavioural Sciences and Public
Administration as may be selected/nominated by the Chairman of the Commission.
3. The technique of the interview is not that of a strict cross examination but of a natural, though directed and purposive
conversation which is intended to reveal the mental qualities of the candidate.
4. The interview test is not intended to be a test either of the specialized or general knowledge of the candidates which
has been already tested through their written papers. Candidates are expected to have taken an intelligent interest not
only in their special subjects of academic study but also in the events which are happening around them both within and
outside their own State or Country as well as in modern currents of thought and in new discoveries which should rouse
the curiosity of well educated youth.
General Instructions For Preliminary As Well As Main Examination :
1. It is mandatory for the candidate to appear in both the papers of Combined Competitive (Preliminary) Examination for
the purpose of evaluation. Therefore, a candidate will be disqualified in case he/she does not appear in both the papers
of Combined Competitive (Preliminary) Examination.
2. Candidates must write the papers in their own hand. In no circumstances, they will be allowed the help of a scribe to
write the answers for them. However, blind candidates and the candidates with Locomotor Disability and Cerebral Palsy
where dominant (writing) extremity is affected to the extent of slowing the performance or function (minimum of 40%
impairment) will be allowed to write the examination with the help of a scribe in both the Combined Competitive
(Preliminary) as well as in the Combined Competitive (Main) Examination.
3. Compensatory time of twenty minutes per hour shall be permitted for the Blind candidates and candidates with
Locomotor Disability and Cerebral Palsy where dominant (writing) extremity is affected to the extent of slowing the
performance or function (minimum of 40% impairment) in both the Combined Competitive (Preliminary) as well as in the
Combined Competitive (Main) Examination.
4. The eligibility conditions of a scribe, his/ her conduct inside the examination hall and the manner in which and extent
to which he/ she can help the blind candidate in writing the Combined Competitive Examination shall be governed by the
instructions issued by the Public Service Commission in this regard. Violation of all or any of the said instructions shall
entail the cancellation of the candidature of the blind candidate in addition to any other action that the Public Service
Commission may take against the scribe.
5. For purpose of these rules, the candidate shall be deemed to be a blind candidate if the percentage of visual
impairment is forty per cent (40%) or more. The criteria for determining the percentage of visual impairment shall be as
follows :-
All with corrections
Better eye
Worse eye
Percentage
1
2
3
4
Category O
6/9-6/18
6/24 to 6/36
20%
Category I
6/18-6/36
6/60 to nil
40%
Category II
6/60-4/60 or fieldof vision 10°-20°
3/60 to nil
Page 13/100
----- PAGE 14 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
75%
Category III
3/60-1/60 or fieldof vision 10°
F. C. at 1 ft.  to nil
100%
Category IV
F. C. at 1 ft to Nil fieldof vision 100°
F. C. at 1 ft to Nil fieldof vision 100°
100%
One-eyed Person
6/6
F. C. at 1 ft to Nil
30%
6. For availing of the concession admissible to a blind candidate, the candidate concerned shall produce a certificate in
the prescribed proforma from a Medical Board constituted by the Government along with their application for the Main
Examination.
7. The concession admissible to blind candidates shall not be admissible to those suffering from Myopia.
8. The Commission have discretion to fix qualifying marks in any or all the subjects of the examination.
9. If a candidate's handwriting is not easily legible, a deduction will be made on this account from the total marks
otherwise accruing to him.
10. Marks will not be allotted for mere superficial knowledge.
11. Credit will be given for orderly, effective and exact expression combined with due economy of words in all subjects of
the examination.
12. In the question papers, wherever required, SI units will be used.
13. Candidates should use only International form of Indian numerals (i. e. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 etc.) while answering question
papers.
14. Candidates will be allowed the use of Scientific (Non-Programmable type) Calculators at the conventional (Essay)
type examination of the Public Service Commission. Programmable type calculators will, however, not be allowed and
the use of such calculators shall tantamount to resorting to unfair means by the candidates. Loaning or interchanging of
calculators in the Examination Hall is not permitted.
It is also important to note that candidates are not permitted to use calculators for answering objective type papers (Test
Booklets). They should not, therefore, bring the same inside the Examination Hall.
Appendix II
Syllabi for the Examination
Part-A Preliminary Examination
Paper I-(200
marks)
Duration : Two hours
? Current events of National and International importance ;
? History of India and Indian National Movement ;
? Indian and World Geography-Physical, Social, Economic Geography of India and the world ;
? Indian Polity and Governance-Constitution, Political System, Panchayati Raj, Public Policy, Rights Issues etc. ;
? Economic and Social Development-Sustainable Development, Poverty, Inclusion, Demographics, Social Sector
Initiatives etc. ;
? General issues on Environmental ecology, Bio-diversity and Climate Change-that do not require subject specialization
;
? General Science.
Note : - Questions pertaining to the State of Jammu and Kashmir may also be asked in this paper. Paper II-(200 marks)
Duration : Two hours
Paper II-(200
marks)
Page 14/100
----- PAGE 15 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
Duration : Two hours
? Comprehension ;
? Interpersonal skills including communication skills ;
? Logical reasoning and analytical ability ;
? Decision-making and problem-solving ;
? General mental ability ;
? Basic numeracy (numbers and their relations, orders of magnitude etc.-Class X level), Data interpretation (charts,
graphs, tables, data sufficiency etc.-Class X level).
Note 1 :-Paper-II of the Combined Competitive (Preliminary) Examination will be a qualifying paper with minimum
qualifying marks fixed at 33%.
Note 2 : - The questions will be of multiple choice, objective type.
Note 3 : - It is mandatory for the candidate to appear in both the Papers of Combined Competitive (Preliminary)
Examination for the purpose of evaluation. Therefore, a candidate will be disqualified in case he/she does not appear in
both the papers of Combined Competitive (Preliminary) Examination.
Part-B Main Examination
The main Examination is intended to assess the overall intellectual traits and depth of understanding of candidates
rather than merely the range of their information and memory.
The nature and standard of questions in the General Studies papers (Paper II to Paper V) will be such that a
well-educated person will be able to answer them without any specialized study. The questions will be such as to test a
candidate's general awareness of a variety of subjects, which will have relevance for a career in Civil Services. The
questions are likely to test the candidate's basic understanding of all relevant issues, and ability to analyze, and take a
view on conflicting socio- economic goals, objectives and demands. The candidates must give relevant, meaningful and
succinct answers.
The scope of the syllabus for optional subject papers (Paper VI and Paper VII) for the examination is broadly of the
honours degree level i. e. a level higher than the bachelors' degree and lower than the masters' degree. In the case of
Engineering, Medical Science and law, the level corresponds to the bachelors' degree.
The syllabi of the papers included in the scheme of Combined Competitive (Main) Examination is given as follows :-
Qualifying Paper On English
The aim of the paper is to test the candidate's ability to read and understand serious discursive prose, and to express
his ideas clearly and correctly.
The pattern of questions would be broadly as follows :-
i. Comprehension of given passages ;
ii. Precis Writing ;
iii. Usage and Vocabulary ;
iv. Short Essays.
(The paper will be of Matriculation or equivalent standard and will be of qualifying nature only. The marks obtained in
this paper will not be counted for final ranking.)
Paper-I
Essay : Candidates may be required to write essays on multiple topics. They will be expected to keep closely to the
subject of the essay to arrange their ideas in orderly fashion, and to write concisely. Credit will be given for effective and
exact expression.
Paper-II
General Studies- I : Indian Heritage and Culture, History and Geography of the World and Society :-
? Indian Polity and Governance-Constitution, Political System, Panc Indian culture will cover the salient aspects of Art
Forms, Literature and Architecture from ancient to modern times.
? Modern Indian history from about the middle of the eighteenth century until the present- significant events,
personalities, issues.
? The Freedom Struggle-its various stages and important contributors/contributions from different parts of the country.
? Post-independence consolidation and reorganization within the country.
? History of the world will include events from 18th century such as industrial revolution, world wars, redrawal of national
boundaries, colonization, decolonization, political philosophies like communism, capitalism, socialism etc.- their forms
Page 15/100
----- PAGE 16 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
and effect on the society.
? Salient features of Indian Society, Diversity of India.
? Role of women and women's organization, population and associated issues, poverty and developmental issues,
urbanization, their problems and their remedies.
? Effects of globalization on Indian society.
? Social empowerment, communalism, regionalism and secularism.
? Salient features of world's physical geography.
? Distribution of key natural resources across the world (including South Asia and the Indian subcontinent) ; factors
responsible for the location of primary, secondary, and tertiary sector industries in various parts of the world (including
India).
? Important Geophysical phenomena such as earthquakes, Tsunami, Volcanic activity, Cyclone etc., geographical
features and their location- changes in critical geographical features (including water bodies and ice-caps) and in flora
and fauna and the effects of such changes.
Paper-III
General Studies-II : Governance, Constitution, Polity, Social Justice and International relations :-
? Indian Constitution- historical under pinnings, evolution, features, amendments, significant provisions and basic
structure.
? Functions and responsibilities of the Union and the States, issues and challenges pertaining to the federal structure,
devolution of powers and finances up to local levels and challenges therein.
? Separation of powers between various organs dispute redressal mechanisms and institutions.
? Comparison of the Indian constitutional scheme with that of other countries.
? Parliament and State Legislatures - structure, functioning, conduct of business, powers and privileges and issues
arising out of these.
? Structure, organization and functioning of the Executive and the Judiciary Ministries and Departments of the
Government; pressure groups and formal/informal associations and their role in the Polity.
? Salient features of the Representation of People's Act.
? Appointment to various Constitutional posts, powers, functions and responsibilities of various Constitutional Bodies.
? Statutory, regulatory and various quasi-judicial bodies.
? Government policies and interventions for development in various sectors and issues arising out of their design and
implementation.
? Development processes and the development industry- the role of NGOs, SHGs, various groups and associations,
donors, charities, institutional and other stakeholders.
? Welfare schemes for vulnerable sections of the population by the Centre and States and the performance of these
schemes; mechanisms, laws, institutions and Bodies constituted for the protection and betterment of these vulnerable
sections.
? Issues relating to development and management of Social Sector/ Services relating to Health, Education, Human
Resources.
? Issues relating to poverty and hunger.
? Important aspects of governance, transparency and accountability, e-governance-applications, models, successes,
limitations, and potential ; citizens charters, transparency and accountability and institutional and other measures.
? Role of civil services in a democracy.
? India and its neighborhood-relations.
? Bilateral, regional and global groupings and agreements involving India and/or affecting India's interests.
? Effect of policies and politics of developed and developing countries on India's interests, Indian diaspora.
? Important International institutions, agencies and fora- their structure, mandate.
Paper-IV
General Studies-III : Technology, Economic Development, Bio-diversity, Environment, Security and Disaster
Management :-
? Indian Economy and issues relating to planning, mobilization of resources, growth, development and employment.
? Inclusive growth and issues arising from it.
? Government Budgeting.
Page 16/100
----- PAGE 17 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
? Major crops cropping patterns in various parts of the country, different types of irrigation and irrigation systems
storage, transport and marketing of agricultural produce and issues and related constraints, e-technology in the aid of
farmers.
? Issues related to direct and indirect farm subsidies and minimum support prices, Public Distribution System-
objectives, functioning, limitations, revamping, issues of buffer stocks and food security, Technology missions;
economics of animal-rearing.
? Food processing and related industries in India- scope and significance, location, upstream and downstream
requirements, supply chain management.
? Land reforms in India.
? Effects of liberalization on the economy, changes in industrial policy and their effects on industrial growth.
? Infrastructure: Energy, Ports, Roads, Airports, Railways etc.
? Investment models.
? Science and Technology- developments and their applications and effects in everyday life.
? Achievements of Indians in science and technology ; indigenization of technology and developing new technology.
? Awareness in the fields of IT, Space, Computers, robotics, nano-technology, bio-technology and issues relating to
intellectual property rights.
? Conservation, environmental pollution and degradation, environmental impact assessment.
? Disaster and disaster management.
? Linkages between development and spread of extremism.
? Role of externaleh state and non-state actors in creating challenges to internal security.
? Challenges to internal security through communication networks, role of media and social networking sites in internal
security challenges, basics of cyber security; money-laundering and its prevention.
? Security challenges and their management in border areas; linkages of organized crime with terrorism.
? Various Security forces and agencies and their mandate.
Paper-V
General Studies-IV : Ethics, Integrity, and Aptitude -
This paper will include questions to test the candidates' attitude and approach to issues relating to integrity, probity in
public life and his problem solving approach to various issues and conflicts faced by him in dealing with society.
Questions may utilize the case study approach to determine these aspects. The following broad areas will be covered.
? Ethics and Human Interface: Essence, determinants and consequences of Ethics in human actions; dimensions of
ethics; ethics in private and public relationships. Human Values - lessons from the lives and teachings of great leaders,
reformers and administrators; role of family, society and educational institutions in inculcating values.
? Attitude: content, structure, function; its influence and relation with thought and behavior; moral and political attitudes;
social influence and persuasion.
? Aptitude and foundational values for Civil Service, integrity, impartiality and non-partisanship, objectivity, dedication to
public service, empathy, tolerance and compassion towards the weaker sections.
? Emotional intelligence-concepts, and their utilities and application in administration and governance.
? Contributions of moral thinkers and philosophers from India and world.
? Public/Civil service values and Ethics in Public administration: Status and problems; ethical concerns and dilemmas in
government and private institutions; laws, rules, regulations and conscience as sources of ethical guidance;
accountability and ethical governance; strengthening of ethical and moral values in governance; ethical issues in
international relations and funding ; corporate governance.
? Probity in Governance: Concept of public service; Philosophical basis of governance and probity; Information sharing
and transparency in government, Right to Information, Codes of Ethics, Codes of Conduct, Citizen's Charters, Work
culture, Quality of service delivery, Utilization of public funds, challenges of corruption.
? Case Studies on above issues.
Paper-VI & Paper-VII
Optional Subject Paper I & II
Candidates may choose any optional subject from amongst the list of the subject in Appendix-I. The detailed syllabus for
each optional subject is given below:
Agriculture
Page 17/100
----- PAGE 18 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
Paper-I
Ecology and its relevance to man, natural resources, their sustainable management and conservation. Physical and
social environment as factors of crop distribution and production. Agro ecology; cropping pattern as indicators of
environments. Environmental pollution and associated hazards to crops, animals and humans. Climate
change-International conventions and global initiatives. Green house effect and global warming. Advance tools for
ecosystem analysis- Remote Sensing (RS) and Geographic Information Systems (GIS).
Cropping patterns in different agro-climatic zones of the country. Impact of high-yielding and short-duration varieties on
shifts in cropping patterns. Concepts of various cropping and farming systems. Organic and Precision farming. Package
of practices for production of important cereals, pulses, oil seeds, fibres, sugar, commercial and fodder crops.
Important features, and scope of various types of forestry plantations such as social forestry, agro-forestry, and natural
forests: Propagation of forest plants. Forest products. Agro-forestry and value addition. Conservation of forest flora and
fauna.
Weeds, their characteristics, dissemination and association with various crops ; their multiplications; cultural, biological,
and chemical control of weeds.
Soil-physical, chemical and biological properties. Processes and factors of soil formation. Soils of India. Mineral and
organic constituents of soils and their role in maintaining soil productivity. Essential plant nutrients and other beneficial
elements in soils and plants. Principles of soil fertility, soil testing and fertilizer recommendations, integrated nutrient
management Biofertilizers. Losses of nitrogen in soil, nitrogen-use efficiency in submerged rice soils, nitrogen fixation in
soils. Efficient phosphorus and potassium use. Problem soils and their reclamation. Soil factors affecting greenhouse
gas emission.
Soil conservation, integrated watershed management. Soil erosion and its management. Dry land agriculture and its
problems. Technology for stabilising agriculture production in rainfed areas.
Water-use efficiency in relation to crop production, criteria for scheduling irrigations, ways and means of reducing run-off
losses of irrigation water. Rainwater harvesting. Drip and sprinkler irrigation. Drainage of waterlogged soils, quality of
irrigation water, effect of industrial effluents on soil and water pollution. Irrigation projects in India.
Farm management, scope, importance and characteristics, farm planning. Optimum resource use and budgeting.
Economics of different types of farming systems. Marketing management strategies for development, market
intelligence. Price fluctuations and their cost; role of co-operatives in agricultural economy; types and systems of farming
and factors affecting them. Agricultural price policy. Crop Insurance.
Agricultural extension, its importance and role, methods of evaluation of extension programmes, socio-economic survey
and status of big, small and marginal farmers and landless agricultural labourers; Training programmes for extension
workers. Role of Krishi Vigyan Kendra's (KVK) in dissemination of Agricultural technologies. Non-Government
Organisation (NGO) and self-help group approach for rural development.
Paper-II
Cell structure, function and cell cycle. Synthesis, structure and function of genetic material. Laws of heredity.
Chromosome structure, chromosomal aberrations, linkage and cross-over, and their significance in recombination
breeding. Polyploidy, euploids and aneuploids. Mutation-and their role in crop improvement. Heritability, sterility and
incompatibility, classification and their application in crop improvement. Cytoplasmic inheritance, sexlinked,
sex-influenced and sex-limited characters.
History of plant breeding. Modes of reproduction, selfing and crossing techniques. Origin, evolution and domestication of
crop plants, center of origin, law of homologous series, crop genetic resources-conservation and utilization. Application
of principles of plant breeding, improvement of crop plants. Molecular markers and their application in plant
improvement. Pureline selection, pedigree, mass and recurrent selections, combining ability, its significance in plant
breeding. Heterosis and its exploitation. Somatic hybridization. Breeding for disease and pest resistance. Role of
interspecific and intergeneric hybridization. Role of genetic engineering and biotechnology in crop improvement
Gernetically modified crop plants.
Seed production and processing technologies. Seed certification, Seed testing and storage. DNA finger printing and
seed registration. Role of public and private sectors in seed production, and marketing. Intellectual Property Rights (IPR)
issues, WTO issues and its impact on Agriculture.
Principles of Plant Physiology with reference to plant nutrition, absorption, translocation and metabolism of nutrients.
Soil-water-plant relationship.
Page 18/100
----- PAGE 19 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
Enzymes and plant pigments; photosynthesis-modern concepts and factors affecting the process, aerobic and anaerobic
respiration; C3, C4 and CAM mechanisms. Carbohydrate, protein and fat metabolism. Growth and development ;
photoperiodism and vernalization. Plant growth substances and their role in crop production. Physiology of seed
development and germination; dormancy. Stress physiology-draught, salt and water stress.
Major fruits, plantation crops, vegetables, spices and flower crops. Package practices of major horticultural crops.
Protected cultivation and high tech horticulture. Post-harvest technology and value addition of fruits and vegetables.
Landscaping and commercial floriculture. Medicinal and aromatic plants. Role of fruits and vegetables in human
nutrition.
Diagnosis of pests and diseases of field crops, vegetables, orchard and plantation crops and their economic importance.
Classification of pests and diseases and their management. Intergrated pest and diseases management. Storage pests
and their management. Biological control of pests and diseases. Epidemiology and forecasting of major crop pests and
diseases. Plant quarantine measures. Pesticides, their formulation and modes of action.
Food production and consumption trends in India. Food security and growing population-vision 2020. Reasons for grain
surplus. National and International food policies. Production, procurement, distribution constraints. Availability of
foodgrains, per capita expenditure on food. Trends in poverty, Public Distribution System and Below Poverty Line
population, Targeted Public Distribution System (PDS), policy implementation in context to globalization. Processing
constraints. Relation of food production to National Dietary Guidelines and food consumption pattern. Food based
dietary approaches to eliminate hunger. Nutrient deficiency-Micro nutrient deficiency : Protein Energy Malnutrition or
Protein Calorie Malnutrition (PEM or PCM), Micronutrient deficiency and HRD in context of work capacity of women and
children. Food grain productivity and food security.
Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Science
Paper-I
1. Animal Nutrition. - 1.1 Partitioning of food energy within the animal. Direct and indirect calorimetry. Carbon-nitrogen
balance and comparative slaughter methods. Systems for expressing energy value of foods in ruminants, pigs and
poultry. Energy requirements for maintenance, growth, pregnancy, lactation, egg, wool, and meat production.
1.2
Latest advances in protein nutrition. Energy protein interrelationships. Evaluation of protein quality. Use of NPN
compounds in ruminant diets. Protein requirements for maintenance, growth, pregnancy, lactation, egg, wool and meat
production.
1.3
Major and trace minerals-Their sources, physiological functions and deficiency symptoms. Toxic minerals. Mineral
interactions. Role of fatsoluble and water-soluble vitamins in the body, their sources and deficiency symptoms.
1.4
Feed additives-methane inhibitors, probiotics, enzymes, antibiotics, hormones, oligosaccharides, antioxidants,
emulsifiers, mould inhibitors, buffers etc. Use and abuse of growth promoters like harmones and antibiotics-latest
concepts.
1.5
Conservation of fodders. Storage of feeds and feed ingredients. Recent advances in feed technology and feed
processing. Antinutritional and toxic factors present in livestock feeds. Feed analysis and quality control. Digestibility
trials-direct, indirect and indicator methods. Predicting feed intake in grazing animals.
1.6
Advances in ruminant nutrition. Nutrient requirements. Balanced rations. Feeding of calves, pregnant, work animals and
breeding bulls. Strategies for feeding milch animals during different stages of lactation cycle. Effect of feeding on milk
composition. Feeding of goats for meat and milk production. Feeding of sheep for meat and wool production.
1.7
Swine Nutrition. Nutrient requirements. Creep, starter, grower and finisher rations. Feeding of pigs for lean meat
production. Low cost rations for swine.
1.8
Poultry nutrition. Special features of poultry nutrition. Nutrient requirements for meat and egg production. Formulation of
rations for different classes of layers and broilers.
2. Animal Physiology. - 2.1 Physiology of blood and its circulation, respiration; excretion. Endocrine glands in health and
Page 19/100
----- PAGE 20 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
disease.
2.2
Blood constituents.-Properties and functions-blood cell formation-Haemoglobin synthesis and chemistry-plasma proteins
production, classification and properties, coagulation of blood ; Haemorrhagic disorders-anti-coagulants-blood
groups-Blood volume-Plasma expanders-Buffer systems in blood. Biochemical tests and their significance in disease
diagnosis.
2.3
Circulation.-Physiology of heart, cardiac cycle, heart sounds, heartbeat, electrocardiograms. Work and efficiency of
heart effect of ions on heart function-metabolism of cardiac muscle, nervous and chemical regulation of heart, effect of
temperature and stress on heart, blood pressure and hypertension, osmotic regulation, arterial pulse, vasomotor
regulation of circulation, shock. Coronary and pulmonary circulation, Blood-Brain barrier Cerebrospinal fluid-circulation in
birds.
2.4
Respiration.-Mechanism of respiration, Transport and exchange of gases-neural control of respiration-Chemoreceptors-
hypoxia-respiration in birds.
2.5
Excretion.-Structure and function of kidney-formation of urine-methods of studying renal function-renal regulation of
acid-base balance : physiological constituents of urine-renal failure-passive venous congestion-Urinary secretion in
chicken-Sweat glands and their function. Bio-chemical test for urinary dysfunction.
2.6
Endocrine glands.-Functional disorders-their symptoms and diagnosis. Synthesis of hormones, mechanism and control
of secretion-hormonal receptors-classification and function.
2.7
Growth and Animal Production.-Prenatal and postnatal growth, maturation, growth curves, measures of growth, factors
affecting growth, conformation, body composition, meat quality.
2.8
Physiology of Milk Production, Reproduction and Digestion.-Current status of hormonal control of mammary
development, milk secretion and milk ejection. Male and Female reproductive organs, their components and functions.
Digestive organs and their functions.
2.9
Environmental Physiology.-Physiological relations and their regulation; mechanisms of adaptation, environmental factors
and regulatory mechanisms involved in animal behaviour, climatology-various parameters and their importance. Animal
ecology. Physiology of behaviour. Effect of stress on health and production.
3. Animal Reproduction. - Semen quality.-Preservation and Artificial Insemination-Components of semen, composition of
spermatozoa, chemical and physical properties of ejaculated semen, factors affecting semen in vivo and in vitro. Factors
affecting semen production and quality, preservation, composition of diluents, sperm concentration, transport of diluted
semen. Deep freezing techniques in cows, sheep, goats, swine and poultry. Detection of oestrus and time of
insemination for better conception. Anoestrus and repeat breeding.
4. Livestock Production and Management :
4.1
Commercial Dairy Farming.-Comparison of dairy farming in India with advanced countries. Dairying under mixed farming
and as specialized farming, economic dairy farming. Starting of a dairy farm, Capital and land requirement, organization
of the dairy farm. Opportunities in dairy farming, factors determining the efficiency of dairy animal. Heard recording,
budgeting cost of milk production, pricing policy; Personnel Management. Developing Practical and Economic rations for
dairy cattle; supply of greens throughout the year, feed and fodder requirements of Dairy Farm. Feeding regimes for
young stock and bulls, heifers and breeding animals; new trends in feeding young and adult stock; Feeding records.
4.2
Commercial meat, egg and wool production.-Development of practical and economic rations for sheep, goats, pigs,
rabbits and poultry. Supply of greens, fodder, feeding regimes for young and mature stock. New trends in enhancing
production and management. Capital and land requirements and socioeconomic concept.
4.3
Page 20/100
----- PAGE 21 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
Feeding and management of animals under drought, flood and other natural calamities.
5. Genetics and Animal Breeding. - 5.1 History of animal genetics, Mitosis and Meiosis : Mendelian inheritance ;
deviations to Mendelian genetics ; Expression of genes ; Linkage and crossing over ; Sex determination, sex influenced
and sex limited characters; Blood groups and polymorphism; Chromosome aberrations; Cytoplasmic inheritance, Gene
and its structure; DNA as a genetic material; Genetic code and protein synthesis; Recombinant DNA technology.
Mutations, types of mutations, methods for detecting mutations and mutation rate, Transgenesis.
5.2
Population Genetics applied to Animal Breeding.- Quantitative Vs. Qualitative traits; Hardy Weinberg Law ; Population
Vs. Individual ; Gene and genotypic frequency; Forces changing gene frequency; Random drift and small populations;
Theory of path coefficient; Inbreeding, methods of estimating inbreeding coefficient, systems of inbreeding; Effective
population size; Breeding value, estimation of breeding value, dominance and epistatic deviation; Partitioning of
variation; Genotype X environment correlation and genotype X environment interaction; role of multiple measurements;
Resemblance between relatives.
5.3
Breeding Systems.-Breeds of livestsock and Poultry. Heritability, repeatability and genetic and phenotypic correlations,
their methods of estimation and precision of estimates; Aids to selection and their relative merits; Individual, pedigree,
family and within family selection; Pregnancy testing; Methods of selection ; Construction of selection indices and their
uses; Comparative evaluation of genetic gains through various selection methods; Indirect selection and correlated
response; Inbreeding, out breeding, upgrading, cross-breeding and synthesis of breeds; Crossing of inbred lines for
commercial production; Selection for general and specific combining ability; Breeding for threshold characters. Sire
index.
6. Extension. - Basic philosophy, objectives, concept and principles of extension. Different Methods adopted to educate
farmers under rural conditions. Generation of technology, its transfer and feedback. Problems and constraints in transfer
of technology. Animal husbandry programmes for rural development.
Paper-II
1. Anatomy, Pharmacology and Hygiene. - 1.1 Histology and Histological Techniques.-Paraffin embedding technique of
tissue processing and H.E. staining-Freezing microtomy-Microscopy Bright field microscope and electron microscope.
Cytology-structure of cell organells and inclusions; cell division-cell types-Tissues and their classificationembryonic and
adult tissues-Comparative histology of organs- Vascular, Nervous, digestive, respiratory, musculo-skeletal and
urogenital systems-Endocrine glands-Integuments-sense organs.
1.2
Embryology.-Embryology of vertebrates with special reference to aves and domestic mammals
gametogenesisfertilization- germ layers-foetal membranes and placentation46 types of placenta in domestic
mammals-Teratology-twins and twinning-organogenesis-germ layer derivatives-endodermal, mesodermal and
ectodermal derivatives.
1.3
Bovine Anatomy.-Regional Anatomy : Paranasal sinuses of OX- surface anatomy of salivary glands. Regional anatomy
of infraorbital, maxillary, mandi-buloalveolar, mental and cornnal nerve block. Regional anatomy of paravertebral nerves,
pudental nerve, median, ulnar and radial nervestibial, fibular and digital nerves-Cranial nerves-structures involved in
epidural anesthesia-superficial lymph nodes-surface anatomy of visceral organs of thoracic, abdominal and pelvic
cavities-comparative-features of locomotor apparatus and their application in the biomechanics of mammalian body.
1.4
Anatomy of Fowl.-Musculo-skeletal system-functional anatomy in relation to respiration and flying, digestion and egg
production.
1.5
Pharmacology and therapeutics drugs.-Cellular level of pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics. Drugs acting on
fluids and electrolyte balance. Drugs acting on Autonomic nervous system. Modern concepts of anesthesia and
dissociative anaesthetics. Autocoids. Antimicrobials and principles of chemotherapy in microbial infections. Use of
hormones in therapeutics-chemotherapy of parasitic infections. Drug and economic concerns in the Edible tissues of
animalschemotherapy of Neoplastic diseases. Toxicity due to "insecticides, plants, metals, non-metals, zootoxins and
mycotoxins".
Page 21/100
----- PAGE 22 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
1.6
Veterinary Hygiene with reference to water, air and habitation.-Assessment of pollution of water, air and soil- Importance
of climate in animal health-effect of environment on animal function and performance relationship between
industrialisation and animal agriculture-animal housing requirements for specific categories of domestic animals viz.
pregnant cows and sows, milking cows, broiler birds-stress, strain and productivity in relation to animal habitation.
2. Animal Diseases. - 2.1 Etiology, epidemiology pathogenesis, symptoms, post-moretem lesions, diagnosis, and control
of infectious diseases of cattle, sheep and goat, horses, pigs and poultry.
2.2
Etiology, epidemiology, symptoms, diagnosis, treatment of production diseases of cattle, horse, pig and poultry.
2.3
Deficiency diseases of domestic animals and birds.
2.4
Diagnosis and treatment of non-specific conditions like impaction, Bloat, Diarrhoea, Indigestion, dehydration, stroke,
poisioning.
2.5
Diagnosis and treatment of neurological disorders.
2.6
Principles and methods of immunisation of animals against specific diseases-hard immunity-disease free zones-'zero'
disease concept- chemoprophylaxis.
2.7
Anaesthesia.-local, regional and general-prenesthetic medication. Symptoms and surgical interference in fractures and
dislocation. Hernia, choking abomassal displacement- Caesarian operations. Rumenotomy-Castrations.
2.8
Disease investigation techniques.-Materials for laboratory investigation-Establishment. Animal Health Centres-Disease
free zone.
3. Veterinary Public Health. - 3.1 Zoonoses.-Classification, definition, role of animals and birds in prevalence and
transmission of zoonotic diseasesoccupational zoonotic diseases.
3.2
Epidemiology.-Principle, definition of epidemiological terms, application of epidemiological measures in the study of
diseases and disease control. Epidemiological features of air, water and food borne infections. OIE regulation, WTO,
sanitary and phytosanitary measures.
3.3
Veterinary Jurisprudence.-Rules and Regulations for improvement of animal quality and prevention of animal
diseases-State and Central Rules for prevention of animal and animal product borne diseases-S.P. C.A.-Veterolegal
cases- Certificates-Materials and Methods of collection of samples for veterolegal investigation.
4. Milk and Milk Products Technology. - 4.1 Market Milk.-Quality, testing and grading of raw milk. Processing, packaging,
storing, distribution, marketing defects and their control. Preparation of the following milks : Pasteurized, standardized,
toned, double toned, sterilized, homogenized, reconstituted, recombined and flavoured milks. Preparation of cultured
milks, cultures and their management, yoghurt, Dahi, Lassi and Srikhand. Preparation of flavoured and sterilized milks.
Legal standards. Sanitation requirement for clean and safe milk and for the milk plant equipment.
4.2
Milk Products Technology.-Selection of raw materials, processing, storing, distributing and marketing milk products such
as Cream, Butter, Ghee, Khoa, Channa, Cheese, condensed, evaporated, dried milk and baby food, lce cream and
Kulfi; by-products, whey products, butter milk, lactose and casein. Testing, grading, judging milk products-BIS and
Agmark specifications, legal standards, quality control nutritive properties. Packaging processing and operational
control. Costing of dairy products.
5. Meat Hygiene and Technology. - 5.1 Meat Hygiene
5.1.1
Ante mortem care and management of food animals, stunning, slaughter and dressing operations; abattoir requirements
and designs; Meat inspection procedures and judgment of carcass meat cuts- grading of carcass meat cuts-duties and
functions of Veterinarians in wholesome meat production.
Page 22/100
----- PAGE 23 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
5.1.2
Hygienic methods of handling production of meat.- Spoilage of meat and control measures-Post-slaughter
physicochemical changes in meat and factors that influence them-Quality improvement methods- Adulteration of meat
and detection- Regulatory provisions in Meat trade and Industry.
5.2
Meat Technology
5.2.1
Physical and chemical characteristics of meat.-Meat emulsions-Methods of preservation of meat-Curing, canning,
irradiation, packaging of meat and meat products, processing and formulations.
5.3
By-products.-Slaughter house by-products and their utilisation-Edible and inedible by products- Social and economic
implications of proper utilisation of slaughter house byproducts- Organ products for food and pharmaceuticals.
5.4
Poultry Products Technology.-Chemical composition and nutritive value of poultry meat, pre-slaughter care and
management. Slaughtering techniques, inspection, preservation of poultry meat and products. Legal and BIS standards.
Structure composition and nutritive value of eggs Microbial spoilage. Preservation and maintenance. Marketing of
poultry meat, eggs and products.
5.5
Rabbit/Fur Animal farming.-Rabbit meat production. Disposal and utilization of fur and wool and recycling of waste by
products. Grading of wool.
Anthropology
Paper-I
1.1
Meaning, Scope and development of Anthropology.
1.2
Relationships with other disciplines : Social Sciences, behavioural Sciences, Life Sciences, Medical Sciences, Earth
Sciences and Humanities.
1.3
Main branches of Anthropology, their scope and relevance :
(a)
Social-cultural Anthropology ;
(b)
Biological Anthropology ;
(c)
Archaeological Anthropology ;
(d)
Linguistic Anthropology.
1.4
Human Evolution and emergence of Man :
(a)
Biological and Cultural factors in human evolution ;
(b)
Theories of Organic Evolution (Pre-Darwinian, Darwinian and Post-Darwinian) ;
(c)
Synthetic theory of evolution; Brief outline of terms and concepts of evolutionary biology (Doll's rule, Cope's rule,
Gause's rule, parallelism, convergence, adaptive radiation and mosaic evolution) ;
1.5
Characteristics of Primates ; Evolutionary Trend and Primate Taxonomy; Primate Adaptations; (Arboreal and Terrestrial)
Primate Taxonomy; Primate Behaviour; Tertiary and Quaternary fossil primates; Living Major Primates; Comparative
Anatomy of Man and Apes; Skeletal changes due to erect posture and its implications.
1.6
Page 23/100
----- PAGE 24 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
Phylogenetic status, characteristics and geographical distribution of the following :-
(a)
Plio-preleistocene hominids in South and East Africa- Australopithecines ;
(b)
Homo erectus : Africa (Paranthropus), Europe (Homoerectus (heidelbergensis), Asia (Homoerectus javanicus, Homo
erectus pekinensis ;
(c)
Neanderthal man-La-chapelle-aux-saints (Classical type), Mt. Carmel (Progressive type) ;
(d)
Rhodesian man ;
(e)
Homo saoiens-Cromagnon, Grimaldi and Chancelede.
1.7
The biological basis of Life.-The Cell, DNA structure and replication, Protein Synthesis, Gene, Mutation, Chromosomes
and Cell Division.
1.8
(a)
Principles of Prehistoric Archaeology. Chronology: Relative and Absolute Dating methods.
(b)
Cultural Evolution-Broad Outlines of Prehistoric cultures :
(i)
Paleolithic
(ii)
Mesolithic
(iii)
Neolithic
(iv)
Chalcolithic
(v)
Copper-Bronze Age
(vi)
Iron Age
2.1
The Nature of Culture. - The concept and Characteristics of culture and civilization; Ethnocentrism vis-a-vis cultural
Relativism.
2.2
The Nature of Society. - Concept of Society; Society and Culture; Social Institution; Social groups; and Social
stratification.
2.3
Marriage. - Definition and universality; Laws of marriage (endogamy, exogamy, hypergamy, hypogamy, incest taboo) ;
Type of marriage (monogamy, polygamy, polyandry, group marriage). Functions of marriage; Marriage regulations
(preferential, prescriptive and proscriptive); Marriage payments (bride wealth and dowry).
2.4
Family. - Definition and universality; Family, household and domestic groups; functions of family; Types of family (from
the perspectives of structure, blood relation, marriage, residence and succession); Impact of urbanization,
industrialization and feminist movements on family.
2.5
Kinship. - Consanguinity and Affinity; Principles and types of descent (Unilineal, Double, Bilateral Ambilineal); Forms of
descent groups (lineage, clan, phratry, moiety and kindred); Kinship terminology (descriptive and classificatory) ;
Descent, Filiation and Complimentary Filiation; Decent and Alliance.
3. Economic Organization. - Meaning, scope and relevance of economic anthropology ; Formalist and Substantivist
Page 24/100
----- PAGE 25 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
debate ; Principles governing production, distribution and exchange (reciprocity, redistribution and market), in
communities, subsisting on hunting and gathering, fishing, swiddening, pastoralism, horticulture, and agriculture ;
globalization and indigenous economic systems.
4. Political Organization and Social Control. - Band, tribe, chiefdom, kingdom and state; concepts of power, authority
and legitimacy; social control, law and justice in simple Societies.
5. Religion. - Anthropological approaches to the study of religion (evolutionary, psychological and functional) ;
monotheism and polytheism; sacred and profane; myths and rituals; forms of religion in tribal and peasant societies
(animism, animatism, fetishism, naturism and totemism); religion, magic and science distinguished; magico-religious
functionaries (priest, shaman, medicine man, sorcerer and witch).
6. Anthropological theories. - (a) Classical evolutionism (Tylor, Morgan and Frazer) :-
(b)
Historical particularism (Boas) Diffusionism (British, German and American) ;
(c)
Functionalism (Malinowski); Structural-Functionlism (Radcliffe-Brown) ;
(d)
Structuralism (L'evi-Strauss and E. Leach) ;
(e)
Culture and personality (Benedict, Mead, Linton, Kardiner and Cora-du Bois) m;
(f)
Neo-evolutionism (Childe, White, Steward, Sahlins and Service) ;
(g)
Cultural materialism (Harris) ;
(h)
Symbolic and interpretive theories (Turner, Schneider and Geertz) ;
(i)
Cognitive theories (Tyler, Conklin) ;
(j)
Post-modernism in anthropology.
7. Culture, Language and Communication. - Nature, origin and characteristics of language; verbal and non-verbal
communication; social contex of language use.
8. Research methods in Anthropology. - (a) Fieldwork tradition in anthropology.-
(b)
Distinction between technique, method and methodology ;
(c)
Tools of data collection : observation, interview, schedules, questionnaire, case study, genealogy, life-history, oral
history, secondary sources of information, participatory methods.
(d)
Analysis, interpretation and presentation of data.
9.1
Human Genetics.-Methods and Application : Methods for study of genetic principles in man-family study (pedigree
analysis, twin study, foster child, co-twin method, cytogenetic method, chromosomal and karyo-type analysis),
biochemical methods, immunological methods, D.N.A. technology and recombinant technologies.
9.2
Mendelian genetics in man-family study, single factor, multifactor, lethal, sub-lethal and polygenic inheritance in man.
9.3
Concept of genetic polymorphism and selection, Mendelian population, Hardy-Weinberg law; causes and changes which
bring down frequency-mutation, isolation, migration, selection, inbreeding and genetic drift. Consanguineous and
nonconsanguineous mating, genetic load, genetic effect of consanguineous and cousin marriages.
9.4
Chromosomes and chromosomal aberrations in man, methodology :-
(a)
Page 25/100
----- PAGE 26 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
Numerical and structural aberrations (disorders) ;
(b)
Sex chromosomal aberration- Klinefelter (XXY), Turner (XO), Super female (XXX), intersex and other syndromic
disorders ;
(c)
Autosomal aberrations- Down syndrome, Patau, Edward and Cri-du-chat syndromes ;
(d)
Genetic imprints in human disease, genetic screening, genetic counseling, human DNA profiling, gene mapping and
genome study.
9.5
Race and racism, biological basis of morphological variation of non-metric and characters. Racial criteria, racial traits in
relation to heredity and environment; biological basis of racial classification, racial differentiation and race crossing in
man.
9.6
Age, sex and population variation as genetic marker : ABO, Rh blood groups, HLA Hp, transferring, Gm, blood enzymes.
Physiological characteristics-Hb level, body fat, pulse rate, respiratory functions and sensory perceptions in different
cultural and socio-ecomomic groups.
9.7
Concepts and methods of Ecological Anthropology : Bio-cultural Adaptations.-Genetic and Non-genetic factors. Man's
physiological responses to environmental stresses: hot desert, cold, high altitude climate.
9.8
Epidemiological Anthropology.-Health and disease. Infectious and non-infectious diseases, Nutritional deficiency related
diseases.
10. Concept of human growth and development. - Stages of growth-pre-natal, natal, infant, childhood, adolescence,
maturity, senescence.
-Factors affecting growth and development genetic, environmental, biochemical, nutritional, cultural and socioeconomic.
-Ageing and senescence. Theories and observations.
-Biological and chronological longevity. Human physique and somatotypes. Methodologies for growth studies.
11.1
Relevance of menarche, menopause and other bioevents to fertility. Fertility patterns and differentials.
11.2
Demographic theories-biological, social and cultural.
11.3
Biological and socio-ecological factors influencing fecundity, fertility, natality and mortality.
12. Applications of Anthropology. - Anthropology of sports, Nutritional anthropology, Anthropology in designing of
defence and other equipments, Forensic Anthropology, Methods and principles of personal identification and
reconstruction, Applied human genetics-Paternity diagnosis, genetic counseling and eugenics, DNA technology in
diseases and medicine, serogenetics and cytogenetics in reproductive biology.
Paper-II
1.1
Evolution of the Indian Culture and Civilization. - Prehistoric (Palaeolithic, Mesolithic, Neolithic and Neolithic-
Chalcolithic), Protohistoric (Indus Civilization). Pre-Harappan, Harappan and post-Harappan cultures. Contributions of
the tribal cultures to Indian civilization.
1.2
Palaeo. - Anthropological evidences from India with special reference to Siwaliks and Narmada basin (Ramapithecus,
Sivapithecus and Narmada Man).
1.3
Ethno-archaeology in India. - The concept of ethnoarchaeology; Survivals and Parallels among the hunting, foraging,
fishing, pastoral and peasant communities including arts and crafts producing communities.
2. Demographic profile of India. - Ethnic and linguistic elements in the Indian population and their distribution. Indian
population-factors influencing its structure and growth.
Page 26/100
----- PAGE 27 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
3.1
The structure and nature of traditional Indian Social System. - Varnashram, Purushartha, Karma, Rina and Rebirth.
3.2
Caste system in India. - Structure and characteristics Varna and caste, Theories of origin of caste system, Dominant
caste, Caste mobility, Future of caste system, Jajmani system. Tribecase continuum.
3.3
Sacred Complex and Nature-Man-Spirit Complex.
3.4
Impact of Buddhism, Jainism, Islam and Christianity of Indian society.
4. Emergence, growth and development in India- Contributions of the 18th, 19th and early 20th Century
scholaradministrators. Contributions of Indian anthropologists to tribal and caste studies.
5.1
Indian Village. - Significance of village study in India; Indian village as a social system; Traditional and changing patterns
of settlement and inter-caste relations; Agrarian relations in Indian villages; Impact of globalization on Indian villages.
5.2
Linguistic and religious minorities and their social, political and economic status.
5.3
Indigenous and exogenous processes of socio-cultural change in Indian society: Sanskritization, Westernization,
Modernization; Inter-play of little and great traditions; Panchayati Raj and social change; Media and Social change.
6.1
Tribal situation in India. - Bio-genetic variability, linguistic and socio-economic characteristics of the tribal populations
and their distribution.
6.2
Problems of the tribal Communities. - Land alienation, poverty, indebtedness, low literacy, poor educational facilities,
unemployment, under-employment, health and nutrition.
6.3
Developmental projects and their impact on tribal displacement and problems of rehabilitation. Development of forest
policy and tribals. Impact of urbanisation and industrialization on tribal populations.
7.1
Problems of exploitation and deprivation of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes.
Constitutional safeguards for Scheduled Tribes and Scheduled Castes.
7.2
Social change and contemporary tribal societies : Impact of modern democratic institutions, development programmes
and welfare measures on tribals and weaker sections.
7.3
The concept of ethnicity; Ethnic conflicts and political developments; Unrest among tribal communities; Regionalism and
demand for autonomy; Pseudo-tribalism. Social change among the tribes during colonial and post-Independent India.
8.1
Impact of Hinduism, Buddhism, Christianity, Islam and other religions on tribal societies.
8.2
Tribe and nation state-a comparative study of tribal communities in India and other countries.
9.1
History of administration of tribal areas, tribal policies, plans, programmes of tribal development and their
implementation. The concept of PTGs (Primitive Tribal Groups), their distribution, special programmes for their
development. Role of N. G.. Os in tribal development.
9.2
Role of anthropology in tribal and rural development.
9.3
Contributions of anthropology to the understanding of regionalism, communalism and ethnic and political movements.
Botany
Paper-I
Page 27/100
----- PAGE 28 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
1. Microbiology and Plant Pathology. - Structure and reproduction/multiplication of viruses, viroids, bacteria, fungi and
mycoplasma; Applications of microbiology in agriculture, industry, medicine and in control of soil and water pollution;
Prion and Prion hypothesis.
Important crop diseases caused by viruses, bacteria, mycoplasma, fungi and nematodes; Modes of infection and
dissemination; Molecular basis of infection and disease resistance/defence; Physiology of parasitism and control
measures. Fungal toxins. Modelling and disease forecasting; Plant quarantine.
2. Cryptogams. - Algae, fungi, lichens, bryophytes, pteridophytes-structure and reproduction from evolutionary
viewpoint; Distribution of Cryptogams in India and their ecological and economic importance.
3. Phanerogams. - Gymnosperms : Concept of Progymnosperms. Classification and distribution of gymnosperms.
Salient features of Cycadales, Ginkgoales, Coniferales and Gnetales, their structure and reproduction. General account
of Cycadofilicales, Bennettitales and Cordiaitailes; Geological time scale; Type of fossils and their study techniques.
Angiosperms : Systematics, anatomy, embryology, palynology and phylogency.
Taxonomic hierarchy; International Code of Botanical Nomenclature; Numerical taxomomy and chemotaxomomy;
Evidence from anatomy, embryology and palynology.
Origin and evolution of angiosperms; Comparative account of various systems of classification of angiosperms; Study of
angiospermic families- Mangnoliaceae, Ranunculaceae, Brassicaceae, Rosaceae, Fabaceae, Euphorbiaceae,
Malvaceae, Dipterocarpaceae, Apiaceae, Asclepiadaceae, Verbenaceae, Solanaceae, Rubiaceae, Cucurbitaceae,
Asteraceae, Poaceae, Arecaceae, Liliaceae, Musaceae and Orchidaceae.
Stomata and their types; Glandular and non-glandular trichomes; Unusual secondary growth; Anatomy of C3 and C4
plants; Xylem and phloem differentiation; Wood anatomy.
Development of male and female gametophytes, pollination, fertilization; Endosperm-its development and function.
Patterns of embryo development; Polyembroyony, apomixes; Applications of palynology; Experimental embryology
including pollen storage and test-tube fertilization.
4. Plant Resource Development. - Domestication and introduction of plants; Origin of cultivated plants, Vavilov's centres
of origin. Plants as sources for food, fodder, fibres, spices, beverages, edible oils, drugs, narcotics, insecticides, timber,
gums, resins and dyes; latex, cellulose, starch and its products; Perfumery; Importance of Ethnobotany in Indian
context; Energy plantations; Botanical Gardens and Herbaria.
5. Morphogenesis. - Totipotency, polarity, symmetry and differentiation; Cell, tissue, organ and protoplast culture.
Somatic hybrids and Cybrids; Micropropagation; Somaclonal variation and its applications; Pollen haploids, embryo
rescue methods and their applications.
Paper-II
1. Cell Biology. - Techniques of cell biology. Prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells-structural and ultrastructural details;
Structure and function of extracellular matrix (cell wall) and membranes-cell adhesion, membrane transport and
vesicular transport; Structure and function of cell organelles (chloroplasts, mitochondria, ER, dictyosomes ribosomes,
endosomes, lysosomes, peroxisomes; Cytoskelaton and microtubules; Nucleus, nucleolus, nuclear pore complex;
Chromatin and nucleosome; Cell signalling and cell receptors; Signal transduction Mitosis and meiosis; molecular basis
of cell cycle. Numerical and structural variations in chromosomes and their significance; Chromatin organization and
packaging of genome; Polytene chromosomes; B-chromosomesstructure, behaviour and significance.
2. Genetics, Molecular Biology and Evolution. - Development of genetics, and gene versus allele concepts
(Pseudoalleles); Quantitative genetics and multiple factors; Incomplete dominance, polygenic inheritance, multiple
alleles; Linkage and crossing over of gene mapping including molecular maps (idea of mapping, function); Sex
chromosomes and sex-linked inheritance; sex determination and molecular basis of sex differentiation; Mutations
(biochemical and molecular basis); Cytoplasmic inheritance and cytoplasmic genes (including genetics of male sterility).
Structure and synthesis of nucleic acids and proteins; Genetic code and regulation of gene expression; Gene silencing;
Multigene families; Organic evolution-evidences, mechanism and theories.
Role of RNA in origin and evolution.
3. Plant Breeding, Biotechnology and Biostatistics. - Methods of plant breeding-introduction, selection and hybridization
(pedigree, backcross, mass selection, bulk method); Mutation, polyploidy, male sterility and heterosis breeding. Use of
apomixes in plant breeding; DNA sequencing; Genetic engineering-methods of transfer of genes; Transgenic crops and
biosafety aspects; Development and use of molecular markers in plant breeding; Tools and techniques-probe, southern
blotting, DNA fingerprinting, PCR and FISH. Standard deviation and coefficient of variation (CV). Tests of significance
Page 28/100
----- PAGE 29 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
(Z-test, t-test and chi-square tests). Probability and distributions (normal, binomial and Poisson). Correlation and
regression.
4. Physiology and Biochemistry. - Water relations, mineral nutrition and ion transport, mineral deficiencies.
Photosynthesis-photochemical reactions, photophosphorylation and carbon fixation pathways ; C3, C4 and CAM
pathways; Mechanism of pholem transport, Respiration (anerobic and aerobic, including fermentation)-electron transport
chain and oxidative phosphorylation; Photorespiration; Chemiosmotic theory and ATP synthesis; Lipid metabolism;
Nitrogen fixation and nitrogen metabolism. Enzymes, coenzymes; Energy transfer and energy conservation. Importance
of secondary metabolites. Pigments as photoreceptors (plastidial pigments and phytochrome). Plant movements;
Photoperiodism and flowering, vernalization, senescence; Growth substances-their chemical nature, role and
applications in agri-horticulture; growth indices, growth movements. Stress physiology (heat, water, salinity, metal); Fruit
and seed physiology. Dormancy, storage and germination of seed. Fruit ripening-its molecular basis and manipulation.
5. Ecology and Plant Geography. - Concept of ecosystem; Ecological factors. Concepts and dynamics of community;
Plant succession. Concepts of biosphere; Ecosystems; Conservation; Pollution and its control (including
phytoreme-diation); Plant indicators; Environment (Protection) Act.
Forest types of India-Ecological and economic importance of forests, afforestation, deforestation and social forestry;
Endangered plants, endemism IUCN categories, Red Data Books; Biodiversity and its conservation; Protected Area
Network; Convention of Biological Diversity, Farmers Rights; and Intellectual Property Rights; Concept of Sustainable
Development; Biogeochemical cycles. Global warming and climatic change; Invasive species; Environmental Impact
Assessment; Phytogeographical regions of India.
Chemistry
Paper-I
1. Atomic Structure. - Heisenberg's uncertainty principle Schrodinger wave equation (time independent); Interpretation of
wave function, particle in onedimensional box, quantum numbers, hydrogen atom wave functions; Shapes of s, p and d
orbitals.
2. Chemical bonding. - Ionic bond, characteristics of ionic compounds, lattice energy, Born- Haber cycle; covalent bond
and its general characteristics, polarities of bonds in molecules and their dipole moments; Valence bond theory, concept
of resonance and resonance energy; Molecular orbital theory (LCAO method); bonding H2 +, H2 He2 + to Ne2, NO, CO,
HF, CN-, Comparison of valence bond and molecular orbital theories, bond order, bond strength and bond length.
3. Solid State. - Crystal systems; Designation of crystal faces, lattice structures and unit cell; Bragg's law; X-ray
diffraction by crystals; Close packing, radius ratio rules, calculation of some limiting radius ratio values; Structures of
NaCI, ZnS, CsCI, CaF2; Stoichiometric and nonstoichiometric defects, impurity defects, semi-conductors.
4. The Gaseous State and Transport Phenomenon. - Equation of state for real gases, intermolecular interactions, and
critical phenomena and liquefaction of gases; Maxwell's distribution of speeds, intermolecular collisions, collisions on the
wall and effusion; Thermal conductivity and viscosity of ideal gases.
5. Liquid State. - Kelvin equation; Surface tension and surface enercy, wetting and contact angle, interfacial tension and
capillary action.
6. Thermodynamics. - Work, heat and internal energy; first law of thermodynamics.
Second law of thermodynamics; entropy as a state function, entropy changes in various processes, entropy-reversibility
and irreversibility, Free energy functions; Thermodynamic equation of state; Maxwell relations; Temperature, volume
and pressure dependence of U, H, A, G, Cp and Cv, a and b ; J-T effect and inversion temperature; criteria for
equilibrium, relation between equilibrium constant and thermodynamic quantities; Nernst heat theorem, introductory idea
of third law of thermodynamics.
7. Phase Equilibria and Solutions. - Clausius-Clapeyron equation; phase diagram for a pure substance; phase equilibria
in binary systems, partially miscible liquids-upper and lower critical solution temperatures; partial molar quantities, their
significance and determination; excess thermodynamic functions and their determination.
8. Electrochemistry. - Debye-Huckel theory of strong electrolytes and Debye-Huckel limiting Law for various equilibrium
and transport properties.
Galvanic cells, concentration cells; electrochemical series, measurement of e.m.f. of cells and its applications fuel cells
and batteries.
Processes at electrodes; double layer at the interface; rate of charge transfer, current density; overpotential;
electroanalytical techniques : amperometry, ion selective electrodes and their use.
Page 29/100
----- PAGE 30 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
9. Chemical Kinetics. - Differential and integral rate equations for zeroth, first, second and fractional order reactions;
Rate equations involving reverse, parallel, consecutive and chain reactions; Branching chain and explosions; effect of
temperature and pressure on rate constant. Study of fast reactions by stop-flow and relaxation methods. Collisions and
transition state theories.
10. Photochemistry. - Absorption of light; decay of excited state by different routes; photochemical reactions between
hydrogen and halogens and their quantum yields.
11. Surface Phenomena and Catalysis :
Adsorption from gases and solutions on solid adsorbents; Langmuir and B.E.T. adsorption isotherms; determination of
surface area, characteristics and mechanism of reaction on heterogeneous catalysts.
12. Bio-inorganic Chemistry. - Metal ions in biological systems and their role in ion-transport across the membranes
(molecular mechanism), oxygen-uptake proteins, cytochromes and ferrodoxins.
13. Coordination Chemistry. - (i) Bonding in transition of metal complexes. Valence bond theory, crystal field theory and
its modifications; applications of theories in the explanation of magnetism and elctronic spectra of metal complexes.
(ii)
Isomerism in coordination compounds; IUPAC nomenclature of coordination compounds; stereochemistry of complexes
with 4 and 6 coordination numbers; chelate effect and polynuclear complexes; trans effect and its theories; kinetics of
substitution reactions in square-planar complexes; thermodynamic and kinetic stability of complexes.
(iii)
EAN rule, Synthesis structure and reactivity of metal carbonyls; carboxylate anions, carbonyl hydrides and metal nitrosyl
compounds.
(iv)
Complexes with aromatic systems, synthesis, structure and bonding in metal olefin complexes, alkyne complexes and
cyclopentadienyl complexes; coordinative unsaturation, oxidative addition reactions, insertion reactions, fluxional
molecules and their characterization; Compounds with metalmetal bonds and metal atom clusters.
14. Main Group Chemistry. - Boranes, borazines, phosphazenes and cyclic phosphazene, silicates and silicones,
Interhalogen compounds; Sulphur-nitrogen compounds, noble gas compounds.
15. General Chemistry of 'f' Block Element. - Lanthanides and actinides: separation, oxidation states, magnetic and
spectral properties; lanthanide contraction.
Paper-II
1. Delocalised Covalent Bonding. - Aromaticity, anti-aromaticity; annulenes, azulenes, tropolones, fulvenes, sydnones.
2. (i) Reaction mechanisms : General methods (both kinetic and non-kinetic) of study of mechanisms or organic
reactions : isotopies, method cross-over experiment, intermediate trapping, stereochemistry; energy of activation;
thermodynamic control and kinetic control of reactions.
(ii)
Reactive intermediates : Generation, geometry, stability and reactions of carboniumions and carbanions, free radicals,
carbenes, benzynes and nitrenes.
(iii)
Substitution reactions : Sn 1, Sn 2, and Sn i, mechanisms ; neighbouring group participation; electrophilic and
nucleophilic reactions of aromatic compounds including heterocyclic compounds-pyrrole, furan, thiophene and indole.
(iv)
Elimination reactions : E1, E2 and E1cb mechanisms; orientation in E2 reactions-Saytzeff and Hoffmann; pyrolytic syn
elimination-acetate pyrolysis, Chugaev and Cope eliminations.
(v)
Addition reactions : Electrophilic addition to C=C and CºC; nucleophilic addition to C=O, CºN, conjugated olefins and
carbonyls.
(vi)
Reactions and Rearrangements :
(a)
Pinacol-pinacolone, Hoffmann, Beckmann, Baeyer-Villiger, Favorskii, Fries, Claisen, Cope, Stevens and Wagner-
Meerwein rearrangements.
(b)
Page 30/100
----- PAGE 31 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
Aldol condensation, Claisen condensation, Dieckmann, Perkin, Knoevenagel, Witting, Clemmensen, Wolff-Kishner,
Cannizzaro and Von Richter reactions; Stobbe, benzoin and acyloin condensations; Fischer indole synthesis, Skraup
synthesis, Bischler-Napieralski, Sandmeyer, Reimer- Tiemann and Reformatsky reactions.
3. Pericyclic reactions. - Classification and examples; Woodward-Hoffmann rules-electrocyclic reactions, cycloaddition
reactions [2+2 and 4+2] and sigmatropic shifts [1, 3; 3, 3 and 1, 5], FMO approach.
4. (i) Preparation and Properties of Polymers : Organic polymerspolyethylene, polystyrene, polyvinyl chloride, teflon,
nylon, terylene, synthetic and natural rubber.
(ii)
Biopolymer Structure of proteins, DNA and RNA.
5. Synthetic Uses of Reagents. - OsO4, HIO4, CrO3, Pb(OAc)4, SeO2, NBS, B2H6, Na-Liquid NH3, LiAIH4, NaBH4,
n-BuLi, MCPBA.
6. Photochemistry : Photochemical reactions of simple organic compounds, excited and ground states, singlet and triplet
states, Norrish-Type I and Type II reactions.
7. Spectroscopy. - Principle and applications in structure elucidation :
(i)
Rotational-Diatomic molecules ; isotopic substitution and rotational constants.
(ii)
Vibrational-Diatomic molecules, linear triatomic molecules, specific frequencies of functional groups in polyatomic
molecules.
(iii)
Electronic-Singlet and triplet states. n®TT* and TT®TT* transitions; application to conjugated double bonds and
conjugated carbonyls Woodward-Fieser rules; Charge transfer spectra.
(iv)
Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (1HNMR) : Basic principle; chemical shift and spin-spin interaction and coupling
constants.
(v)
Mass Spectrometry : Parent peak, base peak, metastable peak, McLafferty rearrangement.
Civil Engineering
Paper-I
1. Engineering Mechanics, Strength of Materials and Structural Analysis.
1.1
Engineering Mechanics. - Units and Dimensions, Sl Units, Vectors, Concept of Force, Concept of particle and rigid body.
Concurrent, Non- Concurrent and parallel forces in a plane, moment of force free body diagram, conditions of
equilibrium, Principle of virtual work, equivalent force system.
First and Second Moment of area, Mass Moment of Inertia.
Static Friction. Kinematics and Kinetics :
Kinematics in cartesian Co-ordinates, motion under uniform and nonuniform acceleration, motion under gravity. Kinetics
of particle : Momentum and Energy principles, collision of elastic bodies, rotation of rigid bodies.
1.2
Strength of Materials. - Simple Stress and Strain, Elastic constants, axially loaded compression members, Shear force
and bending moment, theory of simple bending, Shear Stress distribution across cross sections, Beams of uniform
strength.
Deflection of beams : Mecaulay's method, Mohr's Moment area method, Conjugate beam method, unit load method.
Torsion of Shafts, Elastic stability of columns, Euler's, Rankine's and Secant formulae.
1.3
Structural Analysis. - Castiglianio's theorems I and II, unit load method, of consistent deformation applied to beams and
pin jointed trusses. Slope-deflection, moment distribution.
Rolling loads and Influences lines : Influences lines for Shear Force and Bending moment at a section of a beam.
Criteria for maximum shear force and bending Moment in beams traversed by a system of moving loads. Influences
lines for simply supported plane pin jointed trusses.
Arches : - Three hinged, two hinged and fixed arches, rib shortening and temperature effects. Matrix mehods of analysis
Page 31/100
----- PAGE 32 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
: Force method and displacement method of analysis of indeterminate beams and rigid frames. Plastic Analysis of
beams and frames : Theory of plastic bending, plastic analysis, statical method, Mechanism method.
Unsymmetrical bending : - Moment of inertia, product of inertia, position of Neutral Axis and Principal axes, calculation of
bending stresses.
2. Design of Structures. - Steel, Concrete and Masonry Structures.
2.1
Structural Steel Design. - Structural steel : Factors of safety and load factors. Riveted, bolted and welded joints and
connections. Design of tension and compression members, beams of built up section, riveted and welded plate girders,
gantry girders, stancheons with battens and lacings.
2.2
Design of Concrete and Masonry Structures :
Concept of mix design. Reinforced Concrete : Working Stress and Limit State method of design- Recommendations of I.
S. codes. Design of one way and two way slabs, stair-case slabs, simple and continuous beams of rectangular, T and L
sections. Compression members under direct load with or without eccentricity.
Cantilever and Counter fort type retaining walls.
Water tanks : Design requirements for Rectangular and circular tanks resting on ground.
Prestressed Concrete : Methods and systems of prestressing, anchorages, Analysis and design of sections for flexure
based on working stress, loss of prestress.
Design of brick masonry as per I. S. Codes.
3. Fluid Mechanics, Open Channel Flow and Hydraulic Machines :
3.1
Fluid Mechanics. - Fluid properties and their role in fluid motion, fluid statics including forces acting on plane and curve
surfaces.
Kinematics and Dynamics of Fluid flow : Velocity and accelerations, stream lines, equation of continuity, irrotational and
rotational flow, velocity potential and stream functions.
Continuity, momentum, energy equation, Navier Stokes equation, Euler's equation of motion, application to fluid flow
problems, pipe flow, sluice gates, weirs.
3.2
Dimensional Analysis and Similitude. - Buckingham's Pi-theorem, dimensionless parameters.
3.3
Laminar Flow. - Laminar flow between parallel, stationary and moving plates, flow through tube.
3.4
Boundary layer. - Laminar and turbulent boundary layer on a flat plate, laminar sublayer, smooth and rough boundaries,
drag and lift.
Turbulent flow through pipes : Characteristics of turbulent flow, velocity distribution and variation of pipe friction factor,
hydraulic grade line and total energy line.
3.5
Open Channel Flow. - Uniform and non-uniform flows, momentum and energy correction factors, specific energy and
specific force, critical depth, rapidly varied flow, hydraulic jump, gradually varied flow, classification of surface profiles,
control section, step method of integration of varied flow equation.
3.6
Hydraulic Machines and Hydropower. - Hydraulic turbines, types classification, Choice of turbines performance
parameters, controls, characteristics, specific speed.
Principles of hydropower development.
4. Geotechnical Engineering. - Soil Type and Structure-gradation and particle size distributionconsistency limits.
Water in soil-capillary and structural-effective stress and pore water pressure-permeability concept-filed and laboratory
determination of permeability-Seepage pressure-quick sand conditions-Shear strength determination- Mohr Coulomb
concept.
Compaction of soil-Laboratory and filed test.
Compressibility and consolidation concept-consolidation theoryconsolidation settlement analysis.
Earth pressure theory and analysis for retaining walls, Application for sheet piles and Braced excavation.
Page 32/100
----- PAGE 33 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
Bearing capacity of soil-approaches for analysis-Filed tests-settlement analysis-stability of slope of earth walk.
Subsuface exploration of soils-methods.
Foundation-Type and selection criteria for foundation of structures- Design criteria for foundation-Analysis of distribution
of stress for footings and pile-pile group action-pile load test.
Ground improvement techniques.
Paper-II
1. Construction Technology, Equipment, Planning and Management
1.1
Construction Technology. - Engineering Materials :
Physical properties of construction materials with respect to their use in construction-Stones, Bricks and Tiles ; Lime,
Cement, different types of Mortars and Concrete.
Specific use of ferro cement, fibre reinforced C. C., High stength concrete.
Timber ; Properties defects-common preservation treatments.
Use and selection of materials for specific use like Low Cost Housing, Mass Housing, High Rise Buildings.
1.2
Construction. - Masonry principles using Brick, Stone, Blocks-construction detailing and strength characteristics.
Types of plastering, pointing, flooring, roofing and construction features.
Common repairs in buildings.
Principle of functional planning of building for residents and specific use-Building code provisions.
Basic principles of detailed and approximate estimatingspecification writing and rate analysis-principles of valuation of
real property.
Machinery for earthwork, concreting and their specific uses- Factors affecting selection of equipments-operating cost of
equipments.
1.3
Construction Planning and Management. - Construction activity-schedules-organization for construction industry-Quality
assurance principles.
Use Basic principle of network-analysis in form of CPM and PERT-their use in construction monitoring, Cost optimization
and resource allocation.
Basic principles of Economic analysis and methods.
Project profitability-Basic principles of Boot approach to financial planning-simple toll fixation criterions.
2. Surveying and Transportation Engineering.
2.1
Surveying : Common methods and instruments for distance and angle measurement for CE work-their use in plane
table, traverse survey, levelling work, triangulation, contouring and topographical map.
Basic principles of photogrammetry and remote sensing.
2.2
Railways Engineering. - Permanent way-components, types and their function-Functions and Design constituents of turn
and crossing-Necessity of geometric design of track-Design of station and yards.
2.3
Highway Engineering. - Principles of Highway alignments-classification and geometrical design elements and standards
for Roads.
Pavement structure for flexible and rigid pavements-Design principles and methodology of pavements.
Typical construction methods and standards of materials for stabilized soil, WBM, Bituminous works and CC roads.
Surface and sub-surface drainge arrangements for roads-culvert structures.
Pavement distresses and strengthening by overlays.
Traffic surveys and their application in traffic planning-Typical design features for channelized, intersection rotary
etc.-signal designs-standard Traffic signs and markings.
3. Hydrology, Water Resources and Engineering :
3.1
Hydrology. - Hydrological cycle, precipitation, evaporation, transpiration, infiltration, overland flow, hydrograph, flood
frequency analyses, flood routing through a reservoir, channel flow routing-Muskingam method.
Page 33/100
----- PAGE 34 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
3.2
Ground Water flow. - Specific yield, storage coefficient, coefficient of permeability, confined and unconfined aquifers,
aquifers, aquitards, radial flow into a well under confined and unconfined conditions.
3.3
Water Resources Engineering. - Ground and surface water resources, single and multipurpose projects, storage
capacity of reservoirs, reservoir losses, reservoir sedimentation.
3.4
Irrigation Engineering. - (i) Water requirements of crops : consumptive use, duty and delta, irrigation methods and their
efficiencies.
(ii)
Canals : Distribution systems for canal irrigation, canal capacity, canal losses, alignment of main and distributory canals,
most efficient section, lined canals, their design, regime theory, critical shear stress, bed load.
(iii)
Water logging : causes and control, salinity.
(iv)
Canal structures : Design of head regulators, canal falls, aqueducts, metering flumes and canal outlets.
(v)
Diversion head work : Principles and design of weirs on permeable and impermeable foundation, Khosla's theory,
energy dissipation.
(vi)
Storage works : Types of dams, design, principles of rigid gravity stability analysis.
(vii)
Spillways : Spillway types, energy dissipation.
(viii)
River training : Objectives of river training, methods of river training.
4. Environmental Engineering :
4.1
Water Supply. - Predicting demand for water, impurities of water and their significance, physical, chemical and
bacteriological analysis, waterborne diseases, standards for potable water.
4.2
Intake of Water. - Water treatment : principles of coagulation, flocculation and sedimentation; slow-, rapid-, pressure-,
filters; chlorination, softening, removal of taste, odour and salinity.
4.3
Sewerage Systems. - Domestic and industrial wastes, store sewage- separate and combined systems, flow through
sewers, design of sewers.
4.4
Sewage Characterisation. - BOD, COD, solids, dissolved oxygen, nitrogen and TOC. Standards of disposal in normal
water course and on land.
4.5
Sewage Treatment. - Working principles, units, chambers, sedimentation tank, trickling filters, oxidation ponds, activated
sludge process, septic tank, disposal of sludge, recycling of waste water.
4.6
Solid waste. - Collection and disposal in rural and urban contexts, management of long-term ill-effects.
5. Environmental pollution. - Sustainable development. Radioactive wastes and disposal. Environmental impact
assessment for thermal power plants, mines, river valley projects. Air pollution. Pollution control acts.
Commerce and Accountancy
Paper-I
Accounting and Finance
Accounting, Taxation & Auditing
1. Financing Accounting. - Accounting as a financial information system; Impact of behavioural sciences. Accounting
Standards e. g. Accounting for Depreciation, Inventories, Research and Development Costs, Long-term Construction
Page 34/100
----- PAGE 35 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
Contracts, Revenue Recognition, Fixed Assets, Contingencies, Foreign Exchange Transactions, Investments and
Government Grants, Cash Flow Statement, Earnings per Share.
Accounting for Share Capital Transactions including Bonus Shares, Right Shares.
Employees Stock Option and Buy-Back of Securities.
Preparation and Presentation of Company Final Accounts.
Amalgamations, Absorption and Reconstruction of Companies.
2. Cost Accounting. - Nature and functions of cost accounting, Installation of Cost Accounting System, Cost Concepts
related to Income Measurement, Profit Planning, Cost Control and Decision Making.
Methods of Costing : Job Costing, Process Costing, Activity Based Costing.
Volume-cost-Profit Relationship as a tool of Profit Planning.
Incremental Analysis/Differential Costing as a Tool of Pricing Decisions, Product Decisions, Make or Buy Decisions,
Shut-Down Decisions etc.
Techniques of Cost Control and Cost Reduction : Budgeting as a Tool of Planning and Control, Standard Costing and
Variance Analysis.
Responsibility Accounting and Divisional Performance Measurement.
3. Taxation. - Income Tax : Definitions, Basis of charge; Incomes which do not form part of total income. Simple
problems of Computation of Income (of individuals only) under various heads, i. e., Salaries, Income from House
Property, Profits and Gains from Business or Profession, Capital Gains, Income from other sources, Income of other
Persons included in Assessee's Total Income.
Set-off and Carry forward of Loss, Deductions from Gross Total Income.
Salient Features/Provisions Related to VAT and Services Tax.
4. Auditing. - Company Audit : Audit related to Divisible Profits, Dividends, Special investigations, Tax Audit.
Audit of Banking, Insurance, Non-Profit Organization and Charitable Societies/Trusts/Organizations.
Financial Management, Financial Institutions and Markets :
1. Financial Management. - Finance Function : Nature, Scope and Objectives of Financial Management : Risk and
Return Relationship.
Tools of Financial Analysis : Ratio Analysis, Funds-Flow and Cash- Flow Statement.
Capital Budgeting Decisions : Process, Procedures and Appraisal Methods, Risk and Uncertainty Anlysis and Methods.
Cost of Capital : Concept, Computation of Specific Costs and Weighted Average Cost of Capital, CAPM as aTool of
Determining Cost of Equity Capital.
Financing Decisions : Theories of Capital Structure-Net Income (NI) Approach.
Net Operating Income (NOI) Approach, MM Approach and Traditional Approach, Designing of Capital structure : Types
of Leverages (Operating, Financial and Combined), EBIT-EPS Analysis, and other factors.
Dividend Decisions and Valuation of Firm : Walter's Model, MM Thesis, Gordan's Model Lintner's Model. Factors
Affecting Dividend Policy.Working Capital Management : Planning of Working Capital. Determinants of Working Capital.
Components of Working Capital- Cash.
Inventory and Receivables. Corporate Restructuring with focus on Mergers and Acquisitions (Financial aspect only).
2. Financial Markets and Institutions. - Indian Financial System : An Overview
Money Markets : Participants, Structure and Instruments. Commercial Banks. Reforms in Banking Sector. Monetary and
Credit Policy of RBI. RBI as a Regulator.
Capital Market : Primary and Secondary Market, Financial Market Instruments and Innovative Debt Instruments; SEBI
as a Regulator.
Financial Services : Mutual Funds, Venture Capital, Credit Rating Agencies, Insurance and IRDA.
Paper-II
Organisation Theory and Behaviours, Human Resource
Management and Industrial Relations
Organisation Theory and Behaviour
1. Organisation Theory. - Nature and Concept of Organisation; External Environment of Organisation-Technological,
Social, Political, Ecomomical and Legal; Organizational Goals Primary and Secondary Goals, Single and Multiple Goals;
Management by Objectives.
Evolution of Organisation theory : Classical Neo-classical and system approach.
Page 35/100
----- PAGE 36 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
Modern Concepts of Organisation Theory : Organisational Design, Organisational Structure and Organisational Culture.
Organisational Design-Basic Challenges; Differentiation and Intergration Process; Centralization and Decentralization
Process; Standardization/Formalization and Mutual Adjustment. Coordinating Formal and Informal Organizations.
Mechanistic and Organic Structures.
Designing Organizational structures-Authority and Control; Line and Staff Functions, Specialization and Coordination.
Types of Organization Structure-Functional. Matrix Structure, Project Structure. Nature and Basis of Power, Sources of
Power, Power Structure and Politics. Impact of Information Technology on Organizational Design and Structure.
Managing Organizational Culture.
2. Organisation Behaviour. - Meaning and Concept ; Individual in organization: Personality, Theories, and Determinants;
Pereception Meaning and Process.
Motivation : Concepts, Theories and Applications. Leadership- Theories and Styles. Quality of Work Life (QWL):
Meaning and its impact on Performance, Ways of its Enhancement. Quality Circles (QC)-Meaning and their Importance.
Management of Conflicts in Organizations. Transactional Analysis, Organizational Effectiveness, Management of
Change.
Human Resources Management and Industrial Relations
1. Human Resources Management (HRM). - Meaning Nature and Scope of HRM, Human Resource Planning, Job
Analysis, Job Description, Job Specification, Recruitment Process, Selection Process, Orientational and Placement,
Training and Development Process, Performance Appraisal and 360° Feed Back, Salary and Wage Administration, Job
Evaluation, Employee Welfare, Promotions, Transfers and Separations.
2. Industrial Relations (IR). - Meaning, Nature, Importance and Scope of IR, Formation of Trade Union, Trade Union
Legislation, Trade Union Movement in India. Recognition of Trade Unions, Problems of Trade Unions in India. Impact of
Liberalization on Trade Union Movement.
Nature of Industrial Disputes : Strikes and Lockouts, Causes of Disputes, Prevention and Settlement of Disputes.
Worker's Participation in Management : Philosophy, Rationale, Present Day Status and Future Prospects.
Adjudication and Collective Bargaining.
Industrial Relations in Public Enterprises Absenteeism and Labour Turnover in Indian Industries and their Causes and
Remedies.
ILO and its Functions.
Economics
Paper-I
1. Advanced Micro Economics. - (a) Marshallian and Varrasiam Approaches to Price determination.
(b)
Alternative Distribution Theories; Ricardo, Kaldor, Kaleeki.
(c)
Markets Structure : Monopolistic Competition, Duopoly, Oligopoly.
(d)
Modern Welfare Criteria : Pareto Hicks and Scitovsky, Arrow's Impossibility Theorem, A. K. Sen's Social Welfare
Function.
2. Advance Macro Economics. - Approaches to Employment Income and Interest Rate determination : Classical, Keynes
(IS-LM) curve, Neo-classical synthesis and New classical, Theories of Interest Rate determination and Interest Rate
Structure.
3. Money-Banking and Finance. - (a) Demand for and Supply of Money : Money Multiplier Quantity Theory of Money
(Fisher, Pique and Friedman) and Keyne's Theory on Demand for Money, Goals and Instruments of Monetary
Management in Closed and Open Economies. Relation between the Central Bank and the Treasury. Proposal for ceiling
on growth rate of money.
(b)
Public Finance and its Role in Market Economy : In stabilisation of supply, allocative, of resources and in distribution and
development. Sources of Government revenue, forms of Taxes and Subsidies, their incidence and effects. Limits to
taxation, loans, crowding-out effects and limits to borrowings. Public expenditure and its effects.
4. International Economics. - (a) Old and New theories of International Trade.
(i)
Page 36/100
----- PAGE 37 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
Comparative advantage.
(ii)
Terms of Trade and Offer Curve.
(iii)
Product Cycle and Strategic Trade Theories.
(iv)
Trade as an engine of growth and theories of underdevelopment in an open economy.
(b)
Forms of Protection : Tariff and quota.
(c)
Balance of Payments Adjustment : Alternative Approaches.
(i)
Price versus income, income adjustments under fixed exchange rates.
(ii)
Theories of Policy Mix.
(iii)
Exchange rate adjustments under capital mobility.
(iv)
Floating Rates and their Implications for Developing Countries : Currency Boards.
(v)
Trade Policy and Developing Countries.
(vi)
BOP, adjustments and Policy Coordination in open economy macromodel.
(vii)
Speculative attacks.
(viii)
Trade Blocks and Monetary Unions.
(ix)
WTO : TRIMS, TRIPS, Domestic Measures, Different Rounds of WTO talks.
5. Growth and Development. - (a) (i) Theories of growth : Harrod's model ;
(ii)
Lewis model of development with surplus labour ;
(iii)
Balanced Unbalanced Growth ;
(iv)
Human Capitals and Economic Growth ;
(v)
Research and Development and Economic Growth.
(b)
Process of Economic Development of less developed courtries : Myrdal and Kuzments on economic development and
structural change : Role of Agriculture in Economic Development of less developed countries.
(c)
Economic Development and International Trade and Investment, Role of Multinationals.
(d)
Planning and Economic Development : changing role of Markets and Planning, Private-Public Partnership.
(e)
Welfare indicators and measures of growth-Human Development Indices. The basic needs approach.
(f)
Development and Environmental Sustainability- Renewable and Non-renewable Resources, Environmental
Degradation, Intergenerational equity development.
Paper-II
Page 37/100
----- PAGE 38 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
Indian Economics in Post-Independence Era. - Land System and its changes, Commercialization of agriculture Drain
theory, Laissez faire theory and critique, Manufacture and Transport : Jute, Cotton, Railways, Money and Credit.
Indian Economy After Independence :
A. The Pre-Liberalization Era. - (i) Contribution of Vakil, Gadgil and V. K. R. V. Rao.
(ii)
Agriculture : Land Reforms and land tenure system, Green Revolution and capital formation in agriculture.
(iii)
Industry Trends in composition and growth, Role of public and private sector, small scale and cottage industries.
(iv)
National and per capita income : Patterns, trends, aggregate and sectoral composition and changes therein.
(v)
Broad factors determining National Income and distribution, Measures of poverty, Trends in poverty and inequality.
B. The Post-Liberalization Era. - (i) New Economic Reform and Agriculture : Agriculture and WTO, Food processing,
subsidies, Agricultural prices and public distribution system, Impact of public expenditure on agricultural growth.
(ii)
New Economic Policy and Industry : Strategy of Industrialization, Privatization, Disinvestments, Role of foreign direct
investment and multinationals.
(iii)
New Economic Policy and Trade : Intellectual property rights : Implications of TRIPS, TRIMS, GATS and new Exim
policy.
(iv)
New Exchange Rate Regime : Partial and full convertibility, Capital account convertibility.
(v)
New Economic Policy and Public Finance : Fiscal Responsibility Act, Twelfth Finance Commission and Fiscal
Federalism and Fiscal Consolidation.
(vi)
New Economic Policy and Monetary System. Role of RBI under the new regime.
(vii)
Planning : From Central Planning to indivative planning, Relation between planning and markets for growth and
decentralized planning : 73rd and 74th Constitutional amendments.
(viii)
New Economic Policy and Employment : Employment and poverty, Rural wages, Employment Generation, Poverty
alleviation schemes, New Rural, Employment Guarantee Scheme.
Electrical Engineering
Paper-I
1. Circuits-Theory. - Circuit components; network graphs; KCL, KVL; Circuit analysis methods : nodal analysis, mesh
analysis; basic network theorems and applications; transient analysis : RL, RC and RLC circuits; sinusoidal steady state
analysis; resonant circuits; coupled circuits; balanced 3-phase circuits. Two-port networks.
2. Signals and Systems. - Representation of continuous-time and discrete-time signals and systems; LTI systems;
convolution; impulse response; time-domain analysis of LTI systems based on convolution and differential/ difference
equations. Fourier transform, Laplace transform, Z-transform, Transfer function. Sampling and recovery of signals DFT,
FFT Processing of analog signals through discrete-time systems.
3. E. M. Theory. - Maxwell's equations, wave propagation in bounded media. Boundary conditions, reflection and
refraction of plane waves. Transmission lines : travelling and standing waves, impedance matching, Smith chart.
4. Analog Electronics. - Characteristics and equivalent circuits (large and small-signal) of Diode, BJT, JFET and
MOSFET. Diode circuits : Clipping, clamping, rectifier. Biasing and bias stability. FET amplifiers. Current mirror;
Amplifiers : single and multi-stage, differential, operational feedback and power. Analysis of amplifiers;
frequency-response of amplifiers. OPAMP circuits. Filters; sinusoidal oscillators : criterion for oscillation; single-transistor
and OPAMP configurations. Function generators and wave-shaping circuits. Linear and switching power supplies.
5. Digital Electronics. - Boolean algebra; minimisation of Boolean functions; logic gates; digital IC families (DTL, TTL,
ECL, MOS, CMOS). Combinational circuits : arithmetic circuits, code converters, multiplexers and decoders. Sequential
Page 38/100
----- PAGE 39 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
circuits: latches and flip-flops, counters and shiftregisters. Comparators, timers, multivibrators. Sample and hold circuits,
ADCs and DACs. Semiconductor memories. Logic implementation using programmable devices (ROM, PLA, FPGA).
6. Energy Conversion. - Principles of electromechanical energy conversion : Torque and emf in rotating machines. DC
machines : characteristics and performance analysis; starting and speed control of motors. Transformers : principles of
operation and analysis; regulation, efficiency; 3-phase transformers. 3-phase induction machines and synchronous
machines : characteristics and performance analysis; speed control.
7. Power Electronics and Electric Drives : Semi-conductor power devices : diode, transistor, thyristor, triac, GTO and
MOSFET-static characteristics and principles of operation; triggering circuits; phase control rectifiers; bridge converters :
fully-controlled and half-controlled; principles of thyristor choppers and inverters; DC-DC converters; Switch mode
inverter; basic concepts of speed control of dc and ac motor drives applications of variable-speed drives.
8. Analog Communication. - Random variables : continuous, discrete; probability, probability functions. Statistical
averages; probability models; Random signals and noise : white noise, noise equivalent bandwidth; signal transmission
with noise; signal to noise ratio. Linear CW modulation : Amplitude modulation : DSB, DSB-SC and SSB. Modulators
and Demodulators; Phase and Frequency modulation : PM & FM signals; narrows band FM; generation & detection of
FM and PM, Deemphasis, Preemphasis. CW modulation system : Superhetrodyne receivers, AM receivers,
communication receivers, FM receivers, phase locked loop, SSB receiver Signal to noise ratio calculation or AM and FM
receivers.
Paper-II
1. Control Systems. - Elements of control systems ; block-diagram representations ; open-loop & closed-loop systems;
principles and applications of feedback. Control system components. LTI systems : time-domain and transform-domain
analysis. Stability : Routh Hurwitz criterion, rootloci, Bode-plots and polor plots, Nyquist's criterion; Design of leadlad
compensators. Proportional, PI, PID controllers. State-variable representation and analysis of control systems.
2. Microprocessors and Microcomputers. - PC organisation; CPU, instruction set, register settiming diagram,
programming, interrupts, memory interfacing, I/O interfacing, programmable peripheral devices.
3. Measurement and Instrumentation. - Error analysis; measurement of current voltage, power, energy, power-factor,
resistance, inductance, capacitance and frequency; bridge measurements. Signal conditioning circuit; Electronic
measuring instruments : multimeter, CRO, digital voltmeter, frequency counter, Q-meter, spectrum-analyser,
distoration-meter. Transducers : thermocouple, thermistor, LVDT, strain-guage, piezo-electric crystal.
4. Power Systems : Analysis and Control. - Steady-state performance of overhead transmission lines and cables;
principles of active and reactive power transfer and distribution; perunit quantities; bus admittance and impedance
matrices; load flow; voltage control and power factor correction; economic operation; symmetrical components, analysis
of symmetrical and unsymmetrical faults. Concepts of system stability : swing curves and equal area criterion. Static
VAR system. Basic concepts of HVDC transmission.
5. Power System Protection. - Principles of overcurrent, differential and distance protection. Concept of solid state
relays. Circuit brakers. Computer aided protection : introduction; line, bus, generator, transformer protection; numeric
relays and application of DSP to protection.
6. Digital Communication. - Pulse code modulation (PCM), defferential pulse code modulation (DPCM), delta modulation
(DM), Digital modulation and demodulation schemes : amplitude, phase and frequency keying schemes (ASK, PSK,
FSK). Error control coding : error detection and correction, linear block codes, convolation codes. Information measure
and source coding. Data networks, 7-layer architecture.
Geography
Paper-I
Principles of Geography
Physical Geography :
1. Geomorphology. - Factors controlling landform development ; endogenetic and exogenetic forces ; Origin and
evolution of the earth's crusts ; Fundamentals of geomagnetism; Physical conditions of the earth's interior;
Geosynclines; Continental drift; Isostasy; Plate tectonics; Recent views on mountain building; Volcanicity; Earthquakes
and Tsunamis; Concepts of geomorphic cycles and Land scape development; Denudation chronology; Channel
morphology; Erosion surfaces; Slope development; Applied Geomorphology; Geomorphology, economic geology and
environment.
2. Climatology. - Temperature and pressure belts of the world; Heat budget of the earth; Atmospheric circulation ;
Page 39/100
----- PAGE 40 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
Atmospheric stability and instability. Planetary and local winds; Monsoons and jet streams ; Air masses and fronto ;
Temperate and tropical cyclones ; Types and distribution of precipitation ; Weather and Climate; Koppen's
Thornthwaite's and Trewar Tha's classification of world climate; Hydrological cycle ; Global climatic change, and role and
response of man in climatic changes Applied climatology and Urban climate.
3. Oceanography. - Bottom topography of the Atlantic, Indian and Pacific Oceans ; Temperature and salinity of the
oceans ; Heat and salt budgets, Ocean deposits; Waves, currents and tides ; Marine resources; biotic, mineral and
energy resources; Coral reefs coral bleaching; Sea-level changes; Law of the sea and marine pollution.
4. Biogeography. - Genesis of soils; Classification and distribution of soils; Soil profile ; Soil erosion, Degradation and
conservation ; Factors influencing world distribution of plants and animals; Problems of deforestation and conservation
measures ; Social forestry, agro-forestry; Wildlife ; Major gene pool centres.
5. Environmental Geography. - Principle ecology; Human ecological adaptations; Influence of man on ecology and
environment; Global and regional ecological changes and imbalances; Ecosystem their management and conservation;
Environmental degradation, management and conservation; Biodiversity and sustainable development; Environmental
policy; Environmental hazards and remedial measures; Environmental education and legislation.
Human Geography.
1. Perspectives in Human Geography. - Areal differentiation ; Regional synthesis ; Dichotomy and dualism ;
Environmentalism ; Quantitative revolution and locational analysis ; Radical, behavioural, human and welfare
approaches ; Languages, religions and secularisation ; Cultural regions of the world; Human development indix.
2. Economic Geography. - World economic development: measurement and problems ; World resources and their
distribution ; Energy crisis ; the limits to growth ; World agriculture: typology of agricultural regions ; Agricultural inputs
and productivity ; Food and nutritions problems ; Food security ; famine: causes, effects and remedies ; World industries
: location patterns and problems ; Patterns of world trade.
3. Population and Settlement Geography. - Growth and distribution of world population ; Demographic attributes;
Causes and consequences of migration; Concepts of over-underand optimum population; Population theories, world
population problems and policies, Social well-being and quality of life ; Population as social capital.
Types and patterns of rural settlements; Environmental issues in rural settlements ; Hierarchy of urban settlements ;
Urban morphology ; Concept of primate city and rank-size rule ; Functional classification of towns ; Sphere of urban
influence ; Rural-urban fringe ; Satellite towns; Problems and remedies of urbanization; Sustainable development of
cities.
4. Regional Planning. - Concept of a region ; Types of regions and methods of regionalisation ; Growth centres and
growth poles ; Regional imbalances ; Regional development strategies ; Environmental issues in regional planning ;
Planning for sustainable development.
5. Models, Theories and Laws in Human Geography. - System analysis in Human geography; Malthusian, Marxian and
demographic transition models; Central Place theories of Christaller and Losch; Perroux and Boudeville; Von Thunen's
model of agricultural location; Weber's model of industrial location; Ostov's model of stages of growth. Heart-land and
Rimland theories; Laws of international boundaries and frontiers.
Paper-II
Geography of India
1. Physical Setting. - Space relationship of India with neighbouring countries ; Structure and relief ; Drainage system and
watersheds; Physiographic regions; Mechanism of Indian monsoons and rainfall patterns ; Tropical cyclones and
western disturbances ; Floods and droughts ; Climatic regions ; Natural vegetation, Soil types and their distributions.
2. Resources. - Land, surface and ground water, energy, minerals, biotic and marine resources, Forest and wildlife
resources and their conservation; Energy crisis.
3. Agriculture. - Infrastructure: irrigation, seeds, fertilizers, power; Institutional factors ; land holdings, land tenure and
land reforms ; Cropping pattern, agricultural productivity, agricultural intensity, crop combination, land capability; Agro
and social-forestry; Green revolution and its socioNo. economic and ecological implications; Significance of dry farming;
Livestock resources and white revolution; Aqua-culture; Sericulture, Agriculture and poultry; Agricultural regionalisation;
Agro-climatic zones; Agro-ecological regions.
4. Industry : Evolution of Industries. - Locational factors of cotton, jute, textile, iron and steel, aluminium, fertiliser, paper,
chemical and pharmaceutical, automobile, cottage and ago-based industries; Industrial houses and complexes including
public sector underkings; Industrial regionalisation; New industrial policy ; Multinationals and liberalisation; Special
Page 40/100
----- PAGE 41 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
Economic Zones ; Tourism including ecotourism.
5. Transport, Communication and Trade. - Road, railway, waterway, airway and pipeline networks and their
complementary roles in regional development; Growing importance of ports on national and foreign trade ; Trade
balance; Trade Policy; Export processing zones ; Developments in communication and information technology and their
impacts on economy and society; Indian space programme.
6. Cultural Setting. - Historical Perspective of Indian Society; Racial linguistic and ethnic diversities; religious minorities;
Major tribes, tribal areas and their problems; Cultural regions; Growth, distribution and density of population;
Demographic attributes: sex-ratio, age structure, literacy rate, work-force, dependency ratio, longevity; migration
(interregional, interaregional and international) and associated problems; Population problems and policies; Health
indicators.
7. Settlements. - Types, patterns and morphology of rural settlements ; Urban developments ; Morphology of Indian
cities; Functional classification of Indian cities; Conurbations and metropolitan regions ; Urban sprawl; Slums and
asssociated problems; Town planning; Problems of urbanisation and remedies.
8. Regional Development and Planning. - Experience of regional planning in India; Five Year Plans; Integrated rural
development programmes; Panchayati Raj and decentralised planning; Command area development; Watershed
management; Planning for backward area, desert, drought-prone, hill tribal area development; Multi-level planning;
Regional planning and development of island territories.
9. Political Aspects. - Geographical basis of Indian federalism; State reorganisation; Emergence of new states; Regional
consciousness and inter-state issues; International boundary of India and related issues; Crossborder terrorism; India's
role in world affairs; Geopolitics of South Asia and Indian Ocean realm.
10. Contemporary Issues. - Ecological issues : Environmental hazards: landslides, earthquakes, Tsunamis, floods and
droughts, epidemics; Issues related to environmental pollution; Changes in patterns of land use ; Principles of
environmental impact assessment and environmental management; Population explosion and food security ;
Environmental degradation; Deforestation, desertification and soil erosion; Problems of agrarian and industrial unrest ;
Regional disparities in economic development; Concept of sustainable growth and development; Environmental
awareness; Linkage of rivers; Globalisation and Indian economy.
Note : - Candidates will be required to answer one compulsory map question pertinent to subjects covered by this paper.
Geology
Paper-I
1. General Geology. - The Solar System, meteorites, origin and interior of the earth and age of earth; Volcanoes-causes
and products, Volcanic belts. Earthquakes-causes, effects, seismic of zone of India; Island arcs, trenches and
mid-ocean ridges; Continental drift; Seafloor spreading, plate tectonics. Isostasy.
2. Geomorphology and Remote Sensing. - Basic concepts of geomorphology. Weathering and soil formations;
Landforms, slopes and drainage. Geomorphic cycles and their interpretation. Morphology and its relation to structures
and lithology; Coastal geomorphology; Applications of geomorphology in mineral prospecting, civil engineering;
hydrology and environmental studies; Geomorphology of Indian sub-continent.
Aerial photographs and their interpretation-merits and limitations; The Electromagnetic spectrum. Orbiting Satellites and
Sensor Systems. Indian Remote Sensing Satellites. Satellite data products; Applications of remote sensing in geology;
The Geographic Information System (GIS) and Global Positioning System (GPS)-its applications.
3. Structural Geology. - Principles of geologic mapping and map reading, projection diagrams, Stress and strain ellipsoid
and stress-strain relationships of elastic, plastic and viscous materials; Strain markers in deformed rocks. Behaviour of
minerals and rocks under deformation conditions. Folds and faults classification and mechanics; Structural analysis of
folds, foliations, lineations, joints and faults, unconformities; Time-relationship between crystallization and deformation.
4. Paleontology. - Species-definition and nomenclature; Megafossils and Microfossils. Modes of preservation of fossils ;
Different kinds of microfossils ; Application of microfossils in correlation, petroleum exploration, paleoclimatic and
paleoceanographic studies ; Evolutionary trend in Hominidae, Equidae and Proboscidae. Siwalik fauna.
Gondwana flora and fauna and its importance; Index fossils and their significance.
5. Indian Stratigraphy. - Classification of stratigraphic sequences: lithostrati-graphic, biostratigraphic,
chrono-stratigraphic and magnetostratigraphic and their interrelationships; Distribution and classification of Precambrian
rocks of India; Study of stratigraphic distribution and lithology of Phanerozoic rocks of India with reference to fauna, flora
and economic importance. Major boundary problems-Cambrian/ Precambrian, Permian/Triassic, Cretaceous/Tertiary
Page 41/100
----- PAGE 42 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
and Pliocene/ Pleistocene; Study of climatic conditions, paleogeography and igneous activity in the Indian sub-continent
in the geological past. Tectonic framework of India. Evolution of the Himalayas.
6. Hydrogeology and Engineering Geology. - Hydrologic cycle and genetic classification of water; Movement of
subsurface water; Springs; Porosity, permeability, hydraulic conductivity, transmissivity and storage coefficient,
classification of aquifers; Water-bearing characteristics of rocks; Groundwater chemistry. Salt water intrusion. Types of
wells. Drainage basin morphometry; Exploration for groundwater; Groundwater recharge; Problems and management of
groundwater; Rainwater harvesting; Engineering properties of rocks; Geological investigations for dams, tunnels
highways, railway and bridges; Rock as construction material; Landslides causes, prevention and rehabilitation;
Earthquake-resistant structures.
Paper-II
1. Mineralogy. - Classification of crystals into systems and classes of symmetry ; International system of crystallographic
notation ; Use of projection diagrams to represent crystal symmetry; Elements of X-ray crystallography.
Physical and chemical characters of rock forming silicate mineral groups; Structural classification of silicates ; Common
minerals of igneous and metamorphic rocks ; Minerals of the carbonate, phosphate, sulphide and halide groups; Clay
minerals. Optical properties of common rock forming minerals ; Pleochroism, extinction angle, double refraction,
birefringence, twinning and dispersion in minerals.
2. Igneous and Metamorphic Petrology. - Generation and crystallisation of magmas. Crystallisation of albiteanorthite,
diopside-anorthite and diopside- wollastonite-silica systems. Bowen's Reaction Principle; Magmatic differentiation and
assimilation. Petrogenetic significance of the textures and structures of igneous rocks. Petrography and petrogenesis of
granite, syenite, diorite, basic and ultrabasic groups, charnockite, anorthosite and alkaline rocks. Carbonatites. Deccan
volcanic province.
Types and agents of metamorphism. Metamorphic grades and zones; Phase rule. Facies of regional and contact
metamorphism; ACF and AKF diagrams; Textures and structures of metamorphic rocks. Metamorphism of arenaceous,
argillaceous and basic rocks; Minerals assemblages. Retrograde metamorphism; Metasomatism and granitisation,
migmatites. Granulite terrains of India.
3. Sedimenary Petrology. - Sedimentas and Sedimentary rocks: Processes of formation; digenesis and lithification;
Clastic and non-clastic rocks-their classification, petrography and depositional environment; Sedimentary facies and
provenance. Sedimentary structures and their significance. Heavy minerals and their significance. Sedimentary basins
of India.
4. Economic Geology. - Ore, ore mineral and gangue, tenor of ore. Classification of ore deposits; Processes of formation
of mineral deposits; Controls of ore localisation; Ore texures and structures; Metallogenic epochs and provinces;
Geology of the important Indian deposits of aluminium, chromium, copper, gold, iron, lead, zinc, manganese, titanium,
uranium and thorium and industrial minerals; Deposits of coal and petroleum in India, National Mineral Policy;
Conservation and utilization of mineral resources. Marine mineral resources and Law of Sea.
5. Mining Geology. - Methods of prospecting-geological, geophysical, geochemical and geobotanical; Techniques of
sampling. Estimation of reserves of ore; Methods of exploration and mining-metallic ores, industrial minerals, marine
mineral resources and building stones. Mineral beneficiation and ore dressing.
6. Geochemistry and Environmental Geology. - Cosmic abundance of elements. Composition of the planets and
meteorites. Structure and composition of earth and distribution of elements. Trace elements. Elements of crystal
chemistry-types of chemical bonds, coordination number. Isomorphism and polymorphism. Elementary thermodynamics.
Natural hazards-floods, mass wasting, costal hazards, earthquakes and volcanic activity and mitigation; Environmental
impact of urbanization, mining, industrial and radioactive waste disposal, use of fertilizers, dumping of mine waste and
fly-ash. Pollution of ground and surface water, marine pollution. Environment protection-legislative measures in India;
Sea level changes: causes and impact.
History
Paper-I
1. Sources.
Archaeological sources. - Exploration, excavation, epigraphy, numismatics, monuments.
Literary sources. - Indigenous : Primary and secondary ; poetry, scientific literature, literature, literature in regional
languages, religious literature.
Foreign account: Greek, Chinese and Arab writers.
Page 42/100
----- PAGE 43 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
2. Pre-history and Proto-history. - Geographical factors; hunting and gathering (paleolithic and mesolithic); Beginning of
agriculture (neolithic and chalcolithic).
3. Indus Valley Civilization. - Origin, date, extent, characteristics-decline, survival and significance, art and architecture.
4. Megalithic Cultures. - Distribution of pastoral and farming cultures outside the Indus, Development of community life,
Settlements, Development of agriculture, Crafts, Pottery, and Iron industry.
5. Aryans and Vedic Period. - Expansions of Aryans in India :
Vedic Period: Religious and philosophic literature; Transformation from Rig Vedic period to the later Vedic period;
Political, social and economical life; Significance of the Vedic Age; Evolution of Monarchy and Varna system.
6. Period of Mahajanapadas. - Formation of States (Mahajanapada) : Republics and monarchies ; Rise of urban centres
; Trade routes ; Economic growth ; Introduction of coinage ; Spread of Jainism and Buddhism; Rise of Magadha and
Nandas.
Iranian and Mecedonian invasions and their impact.
7. Mauryan Empire. - Foundation of the Mauryan Empire, Chandragupta, Kautilya and Arthashastra ; Ashoka ; Concept
of Dharma ; Edicts ; Polity, Administration, Economy ; Art, architecture and sculpture ; External contacts ; Religion ;
Spread of religion ; Literature.
Disintegration of the empire ; sungas and Kanvas.
8. Post-Mauryan Period (Indo-Greeks, Sakas, Kushanas, Western Kshatrapas). - Contact with outside world; growth of
urban centres, economy, coinage, development of religions, Mahayana, social conditions, art, architecture, culture,
literature and science.
9. Early State and Society in Eastern India, Deccan and South India. - Kharavela, The Satavahanas, Tamil States of the
Sangam Age; Administration, Economy, land grants, coinage, trade guilds and urban centres; Buddhist centres;
Sangam literature and culture; Art and architecture.
10. Guptas, Vakatakas and Vardhanas. - Polity and administration, Economic conditions, Coinage of the Guptas, Land
grants, Decline of urban centres, Indian feudalism, Caste system, Position of women, Education and educational
institutions; Nalanda, Vikramshila and Vallabhi, Literature, scientific literature, art and architecture.
11. Regional States during Gupta Era. - The Kadambas, Pallavas, Chalukyas of Badami; Polity and Administration,
Trade guilds, Literature; growth of Vaishnava and Saiva religions. Tamil Bhakit movement, Shankaracharya; Vedanta;
Institutions of temple and temple architecture; Palas, Senas, Rashtrakutas, Paramaras, Polity and administration;
Cultural aspects. Arab conquest of Sind; Alberuni, The Chalukyas of Kalyana, Cholas, Hoysalas, Pandyas; Polity and
Administration; Local Government; Growth of art and architecture, religious sects, Institution of temple and Mathas,
Agraharas, education and literature, economy and society.
12. Themes in Early Indian Cultural History. - Languages and texts, major stages in the evolution of art and architecture,
major philosophical thinkers and schools, ideas in Science and Mathematics.
13. Early Medieval India, 750-1200.
-Polity : Major political developments in Northern India and the peninsula, origin and the rise of Rajputs.
-The Cholas : administration, village economy and society "Indian Feudalism".
- Agrarian economy and urban settlements.
-Trade and commerce.
-Society: the status of the Brahman and the new social order.
- Condition of women.
-Indian science and technology.
14. Cultural Traditions in India, 750-1200 :
-Philosophy : Shankaracharya and Vedanta, Ramanuja and Vishishtadvaita, Madhva and Brahma-Mimansa.
-Religion : Forms and features of religion, Tamil devotional cult, growth of Bhakti, Islam and its arrival in India, Sufism.
-Literature : Literature in Sanskrit, growth of Tamil literature, literature in the newly developing languages, Kalhan's
Rajtarangini, Alberun's India .
-Art and Architecture : Temple architecture, sculpture, painting.
15. The Thirteenth Century :
-Establishment of the Delhi Sultanate : The Ghurian invasions-factors behind Ghurian success.
-Economic, Social and cultural consequences.
-Foundation of Delhi Sultanate and early Turkish Sultans.
Page 43/100
----- PAGE 44 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
-Consolidation : The rule of Iltutmish and Balban.
16. The Fourteenth Century :
-"The Khalji Revolution".
-Alauddin Khalji: Conquests and territorial expansion, agrarian and economic measure.
-Muhammad Tughluq: Major projects, agrarian measures, bureaucracy of Muhammad Tughluq.
-Firuz Tugluq: Agrarian measures, achievements in civil engineering and public works, decline of the Sultanate, foreign
contacts and Ibn Battuta's account.
17. Society, Culture and Economy in the Thirteenth and Fourteenth Centuries :
-Society : composition of rural society, ruling classes, town dwellers, women, religious classes, caste and slavery under
the Sultanate, Bhakti movement, Sufi movement.
-Culture : Persian literature, literature in the regional languages of North India, literature in the languages of South India,
Sultanate architecture and new structural forms, painting, evolution of a composite culture.
-Economy : Agricultural Production, rise of urban economy and non-agricultural production, trade and commerce.
18. The Fifteenth and Early Sixteenth Century-Political Developments and Economy :
-Rise of Provincial Dynasties : Bengal, Kashmir (Zainul Abedin), Gujarat.
-Malwa, Bahmanids.
-The Vijayanagara Empire.
-Lodis.
-Mughal Empire, first phase : Babur, Humayun.
-The Sur Empire : Sher Shah's administration.
-Portuguese colonial enterprise, Bhakti and Sufi Movements.
19. The Fifteenth and Early Sixteenth Century- Society and culture :
-Regional cultures specificities.
-Literary traditions.
-Provincial architectural.
-Society, culture, literature and the arts in Vijayanagara Empire.
20. Akbar :
-Conquests and consolidation of empire.
-Establishment of jagir and mansab systems.
-Rajput policy.
-Evolution of religious and social outlook. Theory of Sulh-i-kul and religious policy.
-Court patronage of art and technology.
21. Mughal Empire in the Seventeenth Century :
-Major administrative policies of Jahangir, Shahjahan and Aurangzeb.
-The Empire and the Zamindars.
-Religious policies of Jahangir, Shahjahan and Aurangzeb.
-Nature of the Mughal State.
-Late Seventeenth Century crisis and the revolts.
-The Ahom kingdom.
-Shivaji and the early Maratha Kingdom.
22. Economy and society, in the 16th and 17th Centuries :
-Population Agricultural and craft production.
-Towns, commerce with Europe through Dutch, English and French companies : a trade revolution.
-Indian mercantile classes. Banking, insurance and credit systems.
-Conditions of peasants, Condition of Women.
-Evolution of the Sikh community and the Khalsa Panth.
23. Culture during Mughal Empire :
-Persian histories and other literature
-Hindi and religious literatures.
-Mughal architecture.
-Mughal painting.
Page 44/100
----- PAGE 45 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
-Provincial architecture and painting.
-Classical music.
-Science and technology.
24. The Eighteenth Century :
-Factors for the decline of the Mughal Empire.
-The regional principalities: Nizam's Deccan, Bengal, Awadh.
-Maratha ascendancy under the Peshwas.
-The Maratha fiscal and financial system.
-Emergence of Afghan power Battle of Panipat, 1761.
-State of, political, cultural and economic, on eve of the British conquest.
Paper-II
1. European Penetration into India. - The Early European Settlements; The Portuguese and the Dutch; The English and
the French East India Companies; Their struggle for supremacy; Carnatic Wars; Bengal-The conflict between the
English and the Nawabs of Bengal; Siraj and the English; The Battle of Plassey; Significance of Plassey.
2. British Expansion in India. - Bengal-Mir Jafar and Mir Kasim; The Battle of Buxar; Mysore; The Marathas; The three
Anglo-Maratha Wars; The Punjab.
3. Early Structure of the British Raj. - The Early administrative structure; From diarchy to direct contol; The Regulating
Act (1773); The Pitt's India Act (1784); The Charter Act (1833); The Voice of free trade and the changing character of
British colonial rule; The English utilitarian and India.
4. Economic Impact of British Colonial Rule. - (a) Land revenue settlements in British India; The Permanent Settlement;
Ryotwari Settlement; Mahalwari Settlement; Economic impact of the revenue arrangements; Commercialization of
agriculture; Rise of landless agrarian labourers; Impoverishment of the rural society.
(b)
Dislocation of traditional trade and commerce ; De-industrialisation; Decline of traditional crafts; Drain of wealth;
Economic transformation of India; Railroad and communication network including telegraph and postal services; Famine
and poverty in the rural interior; European business enterprise and its limitations.
5. Social and Cultural Developments. - The state of indigenous education, its dislocation; Orientalist-Anglicist
controversy, The introduction of western education in India; The rise of press, literature and public opinion; The rise of
modern vernacular literature; Progress of Science; Christian missionary activities in India.
6. Social and Religious Reform Movements in Bengal and Other Areas. - Ram Mohan Roy, The Brahmo Movement;
Debendranath Tagore; Iswarchandra Vidyasagar; The Young Bengal Movement; Dayanada Saraswati; The social
reform movements in India including Sati, widow remarriage, child marriage etc.; The contribution of Indian renaissance
to the growth of modern India; Islamic revivalism-the Feraizi and Wahabi Movements.
7. Indian Response to British Rule. - Peasant movement and tribal uprisings in the 18th and 19th centuries including the
Rangpur Dhing (1783), the Kol Rebellion (1832), the Mopla Rebellion in Malabar (1841-1920), the Santal Hul (1855),
Indigo Rebellion (1859-60), Deccan Uprising (1875) and the Munda Ulgulan (1899-1900); The Great Revolt of 1857
-Origin, character, casuses of failure, the consequences; The shift in the character of peasant uprisings in the post-1857
period; the peasant movements of the 1920s and 1930s.
8. Factors leading to the birth of Indian Nationalism. - Politics of Association; The Foundation of the Indian National
Congress; The Safety-valve thesis relating to the birth of the Congress; Programme and objectives of Early Congress;
the social composition of early Congress leadership; the Moderates and Extremists; The Partition of Bengal (1905); The
Swadeshi Movement in Bengal; the economic and political aspects of Swadeshi Movement; The beginning of
revolutionary extremism in India.
9. Rise of Gandhi; Character of Gandhian nationalism. - Gandhi's popular appeal; Rowlatt Satyagraha; the Khilafat
Movement; the Non-cooperation Movement; National politics from the end of the Non-cooperation Movement to the
beginning of the Civil Disobedience Movement; the two phases of the Civil Disobedience Movement; Simon
Commission; The Nehru Report; the Round Table Conferences; Nationalism and the Peasant Movements; Nationalism
and Working class movements; Women and Indian youth and students in Indian politics (1885-1947); the election of
1937 and the formation of ministries; Cripps Mission; the Quit India Movement; the Wavell Plan; The Cabinet Mission.
10. Constitutional Developments in the Colonial India between 1858 and 1935.
11. Other strands in the National Movement. - The Revolutionaries: Bengal, the Punjab, Maharashtra, U.P. the Madras
Page 45/100
----- PAGE 46 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
Presidency, Outside India.
The Left ; The Left within the Congress: Jawaharlal Nehru, Subhas Chandra Bose, the Congress Socialist Party; the
Communist Party of India, other left parties.
12. Politics of Separatism; the Muslim League; the Hindu Mahasabha. - Communalism and the politics of partition;
Transfer of power; Independence.
13. Consolidation as a Nation; Nehru's Foreign Policy. - India and her neighbours (1947-1964); The linguistic
reorganisation of States (1935-1947) ; Regionalism and regional inequality; Integration of Princely States; Princes in
electoral politics; the Question of National Language.
14. Caste and Ethnicity after 1947. - Backward Castes and Tribes in post-colonial electoral politics; Dalit movements.
15. Economic development and political change. - Land reforms ; the politics of planning and rural reconstruction ;
Ecology and environmental policy in post-colonial India ; Progress of Science.
16. Enlightenment and Modern ideas. - (i) Major Ideas of Enlightenment : Kant, Rousseau.
(ii)
Spread of Enlightenment in the colonies.
(iii)
Rise of socialist ideas (up to Marx); spread of Marxian Socialism.
17. Origins of Modern Politics. - (i) European States System
(ii)
American Revolution and the Constitution
(iii)
French Revolution and Aftermath, 1789-1815
(iv)
American Civil War with reference to Abraham Lincoln and the abolition of slavery.
(v)
British Democratic politics, 1815-1850 : Parliamentary Reformers, Free Traders, Chartists.
18. Industrialization. - (i) English Industrial Revolution : Causes and Impact on Society.
(ii)
Industrialization in other countries : USA, Germany, Russia, Japan.
(iii)
Industrialization and Globalization.
19. Nation-State System. - (i) Rise of Nationalism in 19th century.
(ii)
Nationalism : State-building in Germany and Italy.
(iii)
Disintegration of Empires in the face of the emergence of nationalities across the World.
20. Imperialism and Colonialism. - (i) South and South-East Asia.
(ii)
Latin America and South Africa.
(iii)
Australia.
(iv)
Imperialism and free trade: Rise of neo-imperialism.
21. Revolution and Counter-Revolution. - (i) 19th Century European revolutions.
(ii)
The Russian Revolution of 1917-1921.
(iii)
Fascist Counter-Revolution, Italy and Germany.
(iv)
The Chinese Revolution of 1949.
22. World Wars. - (i) 1st and 2nd World Wars as Total Wars : Societal implications.
(ii)
Page 46/100
----- PAGE 47 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
World War I : Causes and Consequences.
(iii)
World War II : Causes and Consequences.
23. The World after World War II. - (i) Emergence of Two power blocs.
(ii)
Emergence of Third World and non-alignment
(iii)
UNO and the global disputes.
24. Liberation from Colonial Rule. - (i) Latin America-Bolivar.
(ii)
Arab World-Egypt.
(iii)
Africa-Apartheid to Democracy.
(iv)
South-East Asia-Vietnam.
25. Decolonization and Underdevelopment. - (i) Factors constraining Development ; Latin America, Africa.
26. Unification of Europe. - (i) Post War Foundations ; NATO and European Community.
(ii)
Consolidation and Expansion of European Community
(iii)
European Union.
27.
Disintegration of Soviet Union and the Rise of the Unipolar World. - (i) Factors leading to the collapse of Soviet
Communism and Soviet Union, 1985-1991.
(ii)
Political Changes in East Europe 1989-2001.
(iii)
End of the Cold War and US Ascendancy in the World as the lone superpower.
Law
Paper-I
Constitutional and administrative Law :
1. Constitution and Constitutionalism : The distinctive features of the Constitution.
2. Fundamental Rights-Public interest litigation; Legal Aid ; Legal services authority.
3. Relationship between Fundamental rights, Directive principles and Fundamental duties.
4. Constitutional Position of the President and relation with the Council of Ministers.
5. Governor and his powers :
6. Supreme Court and the High Courts :
(a)
Appointments and transfer.
(b)
Powers, functions and jurisdiction.
7. Centre, States and local bodies :
(a)
Distribution of legislative powers between the Union and the States.
(b)
Local Bodies.
(c)
Administrative relationship among Union, State and Local Bodies.
(d)
Eminent domain-State property-common propertycommunity property.
8. Legislative powers, privileges and immunities.
Page 47/100
----- PAGE 48 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
9. Services under the Union and the States :
(a)
Recruitment and conditions of services ; Constitutional safeguards ; Administrative tribunals.
(b)
Union Public Service Commission and State Public Service Commissions-Power and functions.
(c)
Election Commission-Power and functions.
10. Emergency provisions.
11. Amendment of the Constitution.
12. Principle of Natural Justice-Emerging trends and judicial approach.
13. Delegated legislation and its constitutionality.
14. Separation of powers and constitutional governance.
15. Judicial review of administrative action.
16. Ombudsman: Lokayukta, Lokpal etc.
International Law :
1. Nature and Definition of International Law.
2. Relationship between International Law and Municipal Law.
3. State Recognition and State Succession.
4. Law of the sea: Inland Waters, Territorial Sea, Contiguous Zone, Continental Shelf, Exclusive Economic Zone and
High Seas.
5. Individuals: Nationality, statelessness; Human Rights and procedures available for their enforcement.
6. Territorial jurisdiction of States, Extradition and Asylum.
7. Treaties : Formation, application, termination and reservation.
8. United Nations : Its principal organs, powers and functions and reform.
9. Peaceful settlement of disputes-different modes.
10. Lawful recourse to force : aggressions, self-defence, intervention.
11. Fundamental principles of international humanitarian law-International conventions and contemporary developments.
12. Legality of the use of nuclear weapons ; ban on testing of nuclear weapons ; Nuclear non-proliferation treaty, CTST.
13. International Terrorism, State sponsored terrorism, Hijacking, International Criminal Court.
14. New International Economic Order and Monetary Law : WTO, TRIPS, GATT, IMF, World Bank.
15. Protection and Improvement of the Human Environment : International Efforts.
Paper-II
Law of Crimes
1. General principles of Criminal liability : mens rea and actus reus, mens rea in statutory offences.
2. Kinds of punishment and emerging trends as to abolition of capital punishment.
3. Preparations and criminal attempt.
4. General exceptions.
5. Joint and constructive liability.
6. Abetment.
7. Criminal conspiracy.
8. Offences against the State.
9. Offences against public tranquility.
10. Offences against human body.
11. Offences against property.
12. Offences against women.
13. Defamation.
14. Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988.
15. Protection of Civil Rights Act, 1955 and subsequent legislative developments.
16. Plea bargaining.
Law of Torts
1. Nature and definition.
Page 48/100
----- PAGE 49 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
2. Liability based upon fault and strict liability ; Absolute liability.
3. Vicarious liability including State Liability.
4. General defences.
5. Joint tort fessors.
6. Remedies.
7. Negligence.
8. Defamation.
9. Nuisance.
10. Conspiracy.
11. False imprisonment.
12. Malicious prosecution.
13. Consumer Protection Act, 1986.
Law of Contracts and Mercantile Law
1. Nature and formation of contract/E-contract.
2. Factors vitiating free consent.
3. Void, voidable, illegal and unenforceable agreements.
4. Performance and discharge of contracts.
5. Quasi-contracts.
6. Consequences of breach of contract.
7. Contract of indemnity, guarantee and insurance.
8. Contract of agency.
9. Sale of goods and hire purchase.
10. Formation and dissolution of partnership.
11. Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881.
12. Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996.
13. Standard form contracts.
Contemporary Legal Developments
1. Public Interest Litigation.
2. Intellectual property rights-Concept, types/ prospects.
3. Information Technology Law including Cyber Laws-Concept, purpose/prospects.
4. Competition Law-Concept, purpose/prospects.
5. Alternate Dispute Resolution-Concept, types/ prospects.
6. Major statutes concerning environmental law.
7. Right to Information Act.
8. Trial by media.
Management
The candidate should make a study of the concept of development of Management as science and art drawing upon the
contributions of leading thinkers of management and apply the concepts to the real life of government and business
decision-making keeping in view the changes in the strategic and operative environment.
Paper-I
1. Managerial Function and Process. - Concept and foundations of management, Evolution of Management Thoughts ;
Managerial Functions-Planning, Organizing, Controlling ; Decision-making; Role of Manager, Managerial skills ;
Entrepreneurship ; Management of innovation; Managing in a global environment, Flexible Systems Management ;
Social responsibility and managerial ethics ; Process and customer orientation ; Managerial processes on direct and
indirect value chain.
2. Organisational Behaviour and Design. - Conceptual model of organization behaviour; The individual
processespersonality, values and attitude, perception, motivation, learning and reinforcement, work stress and stress
management; The dynamics of Organization behaviour-power and politics, conflict and negotiation, leadership process
and styles, communication; The Organizational Processes-decision-making, job design; Classical, Neoclassical and
Contingency approaches to organizational design; Organizational theory and design-Organizational culture, managing
cultural diversity, learning Organization; Organizational change and development; Knowledge Based Enterprise-systems
Page 49/100
----- PAGE 50 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
and processes; Networked and virtual organizations.
3. Human Resource Management. - HR challenges; HRM functions; The future challenges of HRM; Strategic
Management of human resources; Human resource planning; Job analysis; Job evaluation, Recruitment and selection;
Training and development; Promotion and transfer; Performance management; Compensation management and
benefits; Employee morale and productivity; Management of Organizational climate and Industrial relations; Human
resources accounting and audit; Human resource information system; International human resource management.
4. Accounting for Managers. - Financial accounting-concept, importance and scope, generally accepted accounting
principles, preparation of financial statements with special reference to analysis of a balance sheet and measurment of
business income, inventory valuation and depreciation, financial statement analysis, fund flow analysis, the statement of
cash flows; Management accounting concept, need, imporance and scope; Cost accounting-records and processes,
cost ledger and control accounts, reconciliation and integration between financial and cost accounts; Overhead cost and
control, Job and process costing, Budget and budgetary control, Performance budgeting, Zero-base budgeting, relevant
costing and costing for decision-making, standard costing and variance analysis, marginal costing and absorption
costing.
5. Financial Management. - Goal of Finance Function. Concepts of value and return. Valuation of bonds and Shares;
Management of working capital : Estimation and Financing; Management of cash, receivables, inventory and current
liabilities; Cost of capital ; Capital budgeting; Financial and operating leverage; Design of capital structure : theories and
practices ; Shareholder value creation: dividend policy, corporate financial policy and strategy, management of corporate
distress and restructuring strategy; Capital and money markets: institutions and instruments; Leasing hire purchase and
venture capital; Regulation of capital market; Risk and return: portfolio theory; CAPM; APT; Financial derivatives: option,
futures, swap; Recent reforms in financial sector.
6. Marketing Management. - Concept, evolution and scope; Marketing strategy formulation and components of
marketing plan; Segmenting and targeting the market; Positioning and differentiating the market offering; Analyzing
competition; Analyzing consumer markets; Industrial buyer behaviour; Market research; Product strategy; Pricing
strategies; Designing and managing Marketing channels; Integrated marketing communications; Building customer
satisfaction, Value and retention; Services and non-profit marketing; Ethics in marketing; Consumer protection; Internet
marketing; Retail management; Customer relationship management; Concept of holistic marketing.
Paper-II
1. Quantitative Techniques in Decision-making. - Descriptive statistics-tabular, graphical and numerical methods,
introduction to probability, discrete and continuous probability distributions, inferential statistics-sampling distributions,
central limit theorem, hypothesis testing for differences between means and proportions, inference about population
variances, Chisquare and ANOVA, simple correlation and regression, time series and forecasting, decision theory, index
numbers; Linear programmingproblem formulation, simplex method and graphical solution, sensitivity analysis.
2. Production and Operations Management. - Fundamentals of operations management; Organizing for production;
Aggregate production planning, capacity planning, plant design: process planning, plant size and scale of operations,
Management of facilities; Line balancing; Equipment replacement and maintenance; Production control; Supply, chain
management-vendor evaluation and audit; Quality management; Statistical process control, Six Sigma; Flexibility and
agility in manufacturing systems; World class manufaturing; Project management concepts, R&D management,
Management of service operations; Role and importance of materials management, value analysis, make or buy
decision; Inventory control, MRP; Waste management.
3. Management Information System. - Conceptual foundations of information systems ; Information theory; Information
resource management ; Types of information Systems ; Systems Development-Overview of Systems and Design ;
System Development management life-cycle, Designing online and distributed environments; Implementation and
control of project; Trends in information technology; Managing data resources-Organising data. DSS and RDBMS;
Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP), Expert systems, e-Business architecture, e-Governance; Information systems
planning, Flexibility in information systems; User involvement; Evaluation of information systems.
4. Government Business Interface. - State participation in business, Interaction between Government, Business and
different Chambers of Commerce and Industry in India; Government's Policy with regard to Small Scale Industries;
Government clearances for establishing a new enterprise; Public Distribution System; Government control over price
and distribution; Consumer Protection Act (CPA) and The Role of Voluntary Organizations in protecting consumers'
rights; New Industrial Policy of the Government : liberalization, deregulation and privatisation; Indian planning system;
Page 50/100
----- PAGE 51 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
Government policy concerning development of Backward areas/regions; The Responsibilities of the business as well as
the Government to protect the environment; Corporate Governance; Cyber Laws.
5. Strategic Cost Management. - Business policy as a field of study; Nature and scope of strategic management,
Strategic intent, vision, objectives and policies; Process of strategic planning and implementation; Environmental
analysis and internal analysis; SWOT analysis; Tools and techniques for strategic analysis-Impact matrix: The
experience curve, BCG matrix, GEC mode, Industry analysis, Concept of value chain; Strategic profile of a firm;
Framework for analysing competition; Competitive advantage of a firm; Generic competitive strategies; Growth
strategiesexpansion, integration and diversification; Concept of core competence, Strategic flexibility; Reinventing
strategy; Strategy and structure; chief Executive and Board; turnaround management; Management of strategic change;
Strategic alliances, Mergers and Acquisitions; Strategy and corporate evolution in the Indian context.
6. International Business. - International Business Environment : Changing composition of trade in goods and services;
India's Foreign Trade: Policy and trends; Financing of International trade; Regional Economic Cooperation; FTAs;
Internationalisation of service firms; International production; Operation Management in International companies;
International Taxation; Global competitiveness and technological developments; Global E-Business; Designing global
organisational structure and control; Multicultural management; Global business strategy; Global marketing strategies;
Export Management; Export-Import procedures; Joint Ventures; Foreign Investment: Foreign direct investment and
foreign portfolio investment; Cross-border Mergers and Acquisitions; Foreign Exchange Risk Exposure Management;
World Financial Markets and International Banking; External Debt Management; Country Risk Analysis.
Mathematics
Paper-I
(1)
Linear Algebra. - Vector spaces over R and C, linear dependence and independence, subspaces, bases, dimensions,
Linear transformations, rank and nullity, matrix of a linear transformation.
Algebra of Matrices; Row and column reduction, Echelon form, congruence's and similarity; Rank of a matrix; Inverse of
a matrix; Solution of system of linear equations; Eigenvalues and eigenvectors, characteristic polynomial,
Cayley-Hamilton theorem, Symmetric, skew-symmetric, Hermitian, skew-Hermitian, orthogonal and unitary matrices and
their eigenvalues.
(2)
Calculus. - Real numbers, functions of a real variable, limits, continuity, differentiability, mean-value theorem, Taylor's
theorem with remainders, indeterminate forms, maxima and minima, asymptotes; Curve tracing; Functions of two or
three variables; Limits, continuity, partial derivatives, maxima and minima, Lagrange's method of multipliers, Jacobian.
Riemann's definition of definite integrals; Indefinite integrals; Infinite and improper integral; Double and triple integrals
(evaluation techniques only); Areas, surface and volumes.
(3)
Analytic Geometry. - Cartesian and polar coordinates in three dimensions, second degree equations in three variables,
reduction to Canonical forms; straight lines, shortest distance between two skew lines, Plane, sphere, cone, cylinder,
paraboloid, ellipsoid, hyperboloid of one and two sheets and their properties.
(4)
Ordinary Differential Equations. - Formulation of differential equations; Equations of first order and first degree,
integrating factor; Orthogonal trajectory; Equations of first order but not of first degree, Clairaut's equation, singular
solution.
Second and higher order linear equations with constant coefficients, complementary function, particular integral and
general solution.
Section order linear equations with variable coefficients, Euler-Cauchy equation; Determination of complete solution
when one solution is known using method of variation of parameters.
Laplace and Inverse Laplace transforms and their properties, Laplace transforms of elementary functions. Application to
initial value problems for 2nd order linear equations with constant coefficients.
(5)
Dynamics and Statics. - Rectilinear motion, simple harmonic motion, motion in a plane, projectiles; Constrained motion;
Work and energy, conservation of energy; Kepler's laws, orbits under central forces.
Equilibrium of a system of particles; Work and potential energy, friction, Common catenary; Principle of virtual work;
Page 51/100
----- PAGE 52 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
Stability of equilibrium, equilibrium of forces in three dimensions.
(6)
Vector Analysis. - Scalar and vector fields, differentiation of vector field of a scalar variable; Gradient, divergence and
curl in cartesian and cylindrical coordinates; Higher order derivatives; Vector identities and vector equation.
Application to geometry : Curves in space, curvature and torsion; Serret-Furenet's formulae.
Gauss and Stokes' theorems, Green's indentities.
Paper-II
(1)
Algebra. - Groups, subgroups, cyclic groups, cosets, Lagrange's Theorem, normal subgroups, quotient groups,
homomorphism of groups, basic isomorphism theorems, permutation groups, Cayley's theorem.
Rings, subrings and ideals, homomorphisms of rings; Integral domains, principal ideal domains, Euclidean domains and
unique factorization domains; Fields, quotient fields.
(2)
Real Analysis. - Real number system as an ordered field with least upper bound property; Sequences, limit of a
sequence, Cauchy sequence, completeness of real line; Series and its convergence, absolute and conditional
convergence of series of real and complex terms, rearrangement of series. Continuity and uniform continuity of
functions, properties of continuous functions on compact sets.
Riemann integral, improper integrals; Fundamental theorems of integral calculus.
Uniform convergence, continuity, differentiability and integrability for sequences and series of functions; Partial
derivatives of functions of several (two or three) variables, maxima and minima.
(3)
Complex Analysis. - Analytic function, Cauchy-Riemann equations, Cauchy's theorem, Cauchy's integral formula, power
series, representation of an analytic function, Taylor's series; Singularities; Laurent's series; Cauchy's residue theorem;
Contour integration.
(4)
Linear Programming. - Linear programming problems, basic solution, basic feasible solution and optimal solution;
Graphical method and simplex method of solutions; Duality.
Transportation and assignment problems.
(5)
Partial Differential Equations. - Family of surfaces in three dimensions and formulation of partial differential equations;
Solution of quasilinear partial differential equations of the first order, Cauchy's method of characteristics ; Linear partial
differential equations of the second order with constant coefficients, canonical form; Equation of a vibrating string, heat
equation, Laplace equation and their solutions.
(6)
Numerical Analysis and Computer Programming. - Numerical methods: Solution of algebric and transcendental
equations of one variable by bisection, Regula-Falsi and Newton-Raphson methods, solution of system of linear
equations by Gaussian
Elimination and Gauss-Jorden (direct), Gauss-Seidel (iterative) methods. Newton's (forward and backward) and
interpolation, Lagrange's interpolation.
Numerical integration: Trapezoidal rule, Simpson's rule, Gaussian quadrature formula.
Numerical solution of ordinary differential equations : Eular and Runga Kutta methods.
Computer Programming : Binary system; Arithmetic and logical operations on numbers; Octal and Hexadecimal
Systems; Conversion to and from decimal Systems; Algebra of binary numbers.
Elements of computer systems and concept of memory; Basic logic gates and truth tables, Boolean algebra, normal
forms.
Representation of unsigned integers, signed integers and reals, double precision reals and long integers.
Algorithms and flow charts for solving numerical analysis problems.
(7)
Mechanics and Fluid Dynamics. - Generalised coordinates; D'Alembert's principle and Lagrange's equations; Hamilton
equations; Moment of inertia; Motion of rigid bodies in two dimensions.
Equation of continuity; Euler's equation of motion for inviscid flow; Stream-lines, path of a particle; Potential flow;
Page 52/100
----- PAGE 53 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
Two-dimensional and axisymmetric motion; Sources and sinks, vortex motion; Navier- Stokes equation for a viscous
fluid.
Mechanical Engineering
Paper-I
1. Mechanics :
1.1
Mechanics of Rigid Bodies. - Equations of equilibrium in space and its application; first and second moments of area;
simple problems on friction; kinematics of particles for plane motion; elementary particle dynamics.
1.2
Mechanics of Deformable Bodies. - Generalized Hooke's law and its application; design problems on axial stress, shear
stress and bearing stress; material properties for dynamic loading; bending shear and stresses in beams ; determination
of principle stresses and strains-analytical and graphical; compound and combined stresses ; bi-axial stresses-thin
walled pressure vessel ; material behaviour and design factors for dynamic load ; design of circular shafts for bending
and torsional load only ; deflection of beam for statically determinate problems ; theories of failure.
2. Engineering Materials. - Basic concepts on structure of solids, common ferrous and nonferrous materials and their
applications ; heat-treatment of steels ; non-metalsplastics, cermics, composite materials and nano-materials.
3. Theory of Machines. - Kinematic and dynamic analysis of plane mechanisms. Cams, Gears and empicyclie gear
trains, flywheels, governors, balancing of rigid rotors, balancing of single and multicy-linder engines, linear vibration
analysis of mechanical systems (single degree of freedom), Critical speeds and whirling of shafts.
4. Manufacturing Science :
4.1
Manufacturing Process. - Machine tool engineering - Merhant's force analysis: Taylor's tool life equation; conventional
machining; NC and CNC machining process; jigs and fixtures.
Non-conventional machining-EDM, ECM, ultrasonic, water jet machining etc.; application of lasers and plasmas; energy
rate calculations.
Forming and welding processes-standard processes.
Metrology-concept of fits and tolerances ; tools and guages ; comparators ; inspection of length ; position ; profile and
surface finish.
4.2
Manufacturing Management. - System design : factory location-simple OR models; plant layout-methods based ;
applications of engineering economic analysis and break-even analysis for product selection, process selection and
capacity planning ; predetermined time standards.
System planning ; forecasting methods based on regression and decomposition, design and blancing of multi model and
stochastic assembly lines ; inventory managementprobablistic inventory models for order time and order quanitity
determination ; JIT systems ; strategic sourcing ; managing inter plant logistics.
System operations and control : Scheduling algorithms for job shops ; applications of statistical methods for product and
process quality control applications of control charts for mean, range, percent defective, number of defectives and
defects per unit ; quality cost systems ; management of resources, organizations and risks in projects.
System improvement: Implementation of systems, such as total quality management, developing and managing flexible,
lean and agile Organizations.
Paper-II
1. Thermodynamics, Gas Dynamics Turbine. - 1.1 Basic concept of First-law and Second law of Thermodynamics;
concept of entropy and reversibility; availability and unavailability and irreversibility.
1.2
Classification and properties of fluids; incompressible and compressible fluids flows ; effect of Mach number and
compressibility; continuity momentum and energy equations; normal and oblique shocks; one dimensional isentropic
flow ; flow or fluids in duct with frictions that transfer.
1.3
Flow through fans, blowers and compressors ; axial and centrifugal flow configuration; design of fans and compressors ;
single problems compresses and turbine cascade; open and closed cycle gas turbines ; work done in the gas turbine;
reheat and regenerators.
Page 53/100
----- PAGE 54 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
2. Heat Transfer. - 2.1 Conduction heat transfer-general conduction equation- Laplace, Poisson and Fourier equations ;
Fourier law of conduction; one dimensional steady state heat conduction applied to simple wall, solid and hollow cylinder
and spheres.
2.2
Convection heat transfer-Newton's law of convection; free and forces convection ; heat transfer during laminar and
turbulent flow of an incompressible fluid over a flat plate; concepts of Nusselt number, hydrodynamic and thermal
boundary layer their thickness ; Prandtl number ; analogy between heat and momentum transfer-Reynolds, Colbum,
Prandtl analogies; heat transfer during laminar and turbulent flow through horizontal tubes; free convection from
horizontal and vertical plates.
2.3
Black body radiation-basic radiation laws such as Stefanboltzman, Planck distribution, Wein's displacement etc.
2.4
Basic heat exchanger analysis; classification of heat exchangers.
3. Engines. - 3.1 Classification, themodynamic cycles of operation; determination of break power, indicated power,
mechanical efficiency, heat balance sheet, interpretation of performance characteristics, petrol, gas and diesel engines.
3.2
Combustion in SI and CI engines, normal and abnormal combustion; effect of working parameters on knocking,
reduction of knocking; Forms of combustion chamber for SI and CI engines; rating of fuels; additives; emission.
3.3
Different systems of IC engines-fuels; lubricating; cooling and transmission systems. Alternate fuels in IC engines.
4. Steam Engineering. - 4.1 Steam generation-modified Ranking cycle analysis ; Modern steam boilers; steam at critical
and supercritical pressures; draught equipment; natural and artificial draught; boiler fuels solid, liquid and gaseous fuels.
Steam turbines- Principle; types; compounding; impulse and reaction turbines; axial thrust.
4.2
Steam nozzles-flow of steam in convergent and divergent nozzle pressure at throat for maximum discharge with
different initial steam conditions such as wet, saturated and superheated, effect of variation of back pressure ;
supersaturated flow of steam in nozzles, Wilson line.
4.3
Rankine cycle with internal and external irreversibility ; reheat factor ; reheating and regeneration, methods of governing
; back pressure and pass out turbines.
4.4
Steam power plants-combined cycle power generation ; heat recovery steam generators (HRSG) fired and unfired,
co-generation plants.
5. Refrigeration and Air-conditioning. - 5.1 Vapour compression refrigeration cycle-cycle on p-H & T-s diagrams ;
ecofriendly refrigerants-R 134a. 123 ; Systems like evaporators, condensers, compressor, expansion devices. Simple
vapour absorption systems.
5.2
Psychrometry-properties; processes; charts; sensible heating and cooling; humidification and dehumidification effective
temperature; air-conditioning load calculation; simple duct design.
Medical Science
Paper-I
1. Human Anatomy. - Applied anatomy including blood and nerve supply of upper and lower limbs and joints of shoulder,
hip and knee.
Gross anatomy, blood supply and lymphatic drainage of tongue, thyroid, mammary gland, stomach, liver, prostate,
gonads and uterus.
Applied anatomy of diaphragm, perineum and inguinal region.
Clinical anatomy of kidney, urinary bladder, uterine tubes, vas deferens.
Embryology : Placenta and placental barrier. Development of heart, gut, kidney. uterus, ovary, testis and their common
congenital abnormalities.
Central and Peripheral Autonomic Nervous System :
Gross and clinical anatomy of ventricles of brain, circulation of cerebrospinal fluid; Neural pathways and lesions of
Page 54/100
----- PAGE 55 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
cutaneous sensations, hearing and vision; Cranial nerves distribution and clinical significance; Components of
autonomic nervous system.
2. Human Physiology. - Conduction and transmission of impulse, mechanism of contraction, neuromuscular
transmission, reflexes, control of equilibrium, posture and muscle tone, descending pathways, functions of cerebellum,
basal ganglia, Physiology of sleep and consciousness.
Endocrine System : Mechanism of action of hormones; formation, secretion, transport, metabolism, function and
regulation of secretion of pancreas and pituitary gland.
Physiology of Reproductive System : Pregnancy menstrual cycle, lactation, pregnancy.
Blood : Development, regulation and fate of blood cells.
Cardio-vascular, cardiac output, blood pressure, regulation of cardiovascular functions.
3. Biochemistry :
Organ function tests-liver, kidney, thyroid Protein synthesis.
Vitamins and minerals. Restriction fragment length. polymorphism (RFLP). Polymerase chain reaction (PCR).
Radio-immunoassays (RIA).
4. Pathology. - Inflammation and repair, disturbances of growth and cancer, Pathogenesis and histopathology of
rheumatic and ischaemic heart disease and diabetes mellitus. Differentiation between benign, malignant, primary and
metastatic malignancies, Pathogenesis and histopathology of bronchogenic carcinoma, carcinoma breast, oral cancer,
cancer cervix, leukemia, Etiology, pathogenesis and histopathology of-cirrhosis liver, glomerulonephritis, tuberculosis,
acute osteomyelitis.
5. Microbiology. - Humoral and cell mediated immunity.
Diseases caused by and laboratory diagnosis of-
* Meningococcus, Saimonella
* Shigella, Herpes, Dengue, Polio
* HIV/AIDS, Malaria, E. Histolytica, Giardia
* Candida, Cryptococcus, Aspergillus.
6. Pharmacology. - Mechanism of action and side effects of the following drugs :
* Antipyretics and analgesics, Antibiotics,
* Antimalaria, Antikala-azar, Antidiabetics,
* Antihypertensive, Antidiuretics, General and cardiac vasodilators, Antiviral, Antiparasitic, Antifungal,
Immunosuppressants,
* Anticancer.
7. Forensic Medicine and Toxicology. - Forensic examination of injuries and wounds; Examination of blood and seminal
stains; Poisoning, sedative overdose, hanging, drowning, burns, DNA and finger print study.
Paper-II
1. General Medicine. - Etiology, clinical features, diagnosis and principles of management (including prevention)
of-Typhoid, Rabies, AIDS, Dengue, Kala-azar, Japanese Encephalitis.
Etiology, clinical features, diagnosis and principles of management of :
Ischaemic heart disease, pulmonary embolism. Bronchial asthma.
Pleural effusion, tuberculosis, Malabsorption syndromes; acid peptic diseases, Viral hepatitis and cirrhosis of liver.
Glomerulonephritis and pyelonephritis, renal failure, nephrotic syndrome, renovascular hypertension, complications of
diabetes mellitus, coagulation disorders, leukaemia, Hypo and hyper thyrodism, meningitis and encephalitis.
Imaging in medical problems, ultrasound, echo-cardiogram, CT scan, MRI.
Anxiety and Depressive Psychosis and schizophrenia and ECT.
2. Paediatrics. - Immunization, Baby friendly hospital, congenital cyanotic heart disease, respiratory distress syndrome,
broncho- pneumonias, kernicterus. IMNCI classification and management, PEM grading and management. ARI and
Diarrhea of under five and their management.
3. Dermatology. - Psoriasis, Allergic dermatitis, scabies, eczema, vitiligo, Stevan Johnson's syndrome, Lichen Planus.
4. General Surgery. - Clinical features, causes, diagnosis and principles of management of cleft palate, harelip.
Laryngeal tumour, oral and esophageal tumours.
Peripheral arterial diseases, varicose veins, coarctation of aorta.
Tumours of Thyroid, Adrenal, Glands.
Page 55/100
----- PAGE 56 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
Abscess cancer, fibroadenoma and adenosis of breast.
Bleeding peptic ulcer, tuberculosis of bowel, ulcerative colitis, cancer stomach.
Renal mass, cancer prostatie.
Haemothorax, stones of Gall bladder, Kidney, Ureter and Urinary Bladder.
Management of surgical conditions of Rectum, Anus and Anal canal, Gall bladder and Bile ducts.
Splenomegaly, cholecystitis, portal hypertension, liver abscess, peritonitis, carcinoma head of pancreas.
Fractures of spine, Colles' fracture and bone tumors. Endoscopy.
Laprascopic Surgery.
5. Obstetrics and Gynaecology including Family Planning. - Diagnosis of pregnancy.
Labour management, complications of 3rd stage, Antepartum and postpartum hemorrhage, resuscitation of the
newborn, Management of abnormal life and difficult labour. Management of small for date or premature newborn.
Diagnosis and management of anemia. Preeclampsia and Toxaemias of pregnancy, Management of Post-menopausal
Syndrome.
Intra-uterine devices, pills, tubectomy and vasectomy. Medical termination of pregnancy including legal aspects.
Cancer cervix.
Leucorrhoea, pelvic pain; infertility, dysfunctional uterine bleeding (DUB), amenorrhoea, Fibroid and prolapse of uterus.
6. Community Medicine (Preventive and Social Medicine). - Principles, methods approach and measurements of
Epidemiology.
Nutrition, nutritional diseases/diorders and Nutrition Programmes.
Health information Collection, Analysis and Presentation.
Objectives, components and critical analysis of National programmes for control/eradication of :
Malaria, Kala-azar, Filaria and Tuberculosis, HIV/AIDS, STDs and Dengue.
Critical appraisal of Health care delivery system.
Health management and administration; Techniques, Tools, Programme Implementation and Evaluation.
Objectives, Components, Goals and Status of Reproductive and Child Health, National Rural Health Mission and
Millennium Development Goals.
Management of hospital and industrial waste.
Philosophy
Paper-I
History and Problems of Philosophy
1. Plato and Aristotle : Ideas ; Substance; Form and Matter; Causation; Actuality and Potentiality.
2. Rationalism (Descartes, Spinoza, Leibniz) ; Cartesian Method and Certain Knowledge; Substance ; God; Mind-Body
Dualism; Determinism and Freedom.
3. Empiricism (Locke, Berkeley, Hume) : Theory of Knowledge; Substance and Qualities; Self and God; Scepticism.
4. Kant: Possibility of Synthetic a priori Judgments ; Space and Time; Categories; Ideas of Reason ; Antinomies ;
Critique of Proofs for the Existence of God.
5. Hegel : Dialectical Method; Absolute Idealism.
6. Moore, Russell and Early Wittgenstein : Defence of Commonsense; Refutation of Idealism; Logical Atomism; Logical
Constructions; Incomplete Symbols; Picture Theory of Meaning; Sying and Showing.
7. Logical Positivism : Verification Theory of Meaning; Rejection of Metaphysics; Linguistic Theory of Necessary
Propositions.
8. Later Wittgenstein : Meaning and Use; Language-games; Critique of Private Language.
9. Phenomenology (Husserl): Method; Theory of Essences; Avoidance of Psychologism.
10. Existentialism (Kierkegaard, Sarte, Heidegger): Existence and Essence; Choice, Responsibility and Authentic
Existence; Being-inthe- world and Temporality.
11. Quine and Strawson : Critique of Empiricism; Theory of Basic Particulars and Persons.
12. Carvaka : Theory of Knowlegde; Rejection of Transcendent Entities.
13. Jainism : Theory of Reality; Saptabhanginaya; Bondage and Liberation.
14. Schools of Buddhism : Prat Ityasamutpada; Ksanikavada, Nairatmyavada.
15. Nyaya-Vaiesesika : Theory of Categories; Theory of Appearance; Theory of Pramana; Self, Liberation; God; Proofs
for the Existence of God; Theory of Causation; Atomistic Theory of Creation.
Page 56/100
----- PAGE 57 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
16. Samkhya ; Prakrit ; Purusa ; Causation; Liberation.
17. Yoga ; Citta ; Cittavrtti; Klesas ; Samadhi; Kaivalya.
18. Mimamsa: Theory of Knowlegde.
19. Schools of Vedanta : Brahman; Isvara; Atman; Jiva; Jagat; Maya; Avida; Adhyasa; Moksa; Aprthaksiddhi;
Pancavidhabheda.
20. Aurobindo: Evolution, Involution; Integral Yoga.
Paper-II
Socio-Political Philosophy
1. Social and Political ldeals : Equality, Justice, Liberty.
2. Sovereignty : Austin, Bodin, Laski, Kautilya.
3. Individual and State : Rights; Duties and Accountability.
4. Forms of Government : Monarchy; Theocracy and Democracy.
5. Political Ideologies: Anarchism; Marxism and Socialism.
6. Humanism; Secularism; Multi-culturalism.
7. Crime and Punishment : Corruption, Mass Violence, Genocide, Capital Punishment.
8. Development and Social Progress.
9. Gender Discrimination : Female Foeticide, Land and Property Rights; Empowerment.
10. Caste Discrimination : Gandhi and Ambedkar.
Philosophy of Religion :
1. Notions of God : Attributes; Relation to Man and the World. (Indian and Western).
2. Proofs for the Existence of God and their Critique (Indian and Western).
3. Problem of Evil.
4. Soul : Immortality; Rebirth and Liberation.
5. Reason, Revelation and Faith.
6. Religious Experience : Nature and Object (Indian and Western).
7. Religion without God.
8. Religion and Morality.
9. Religious Pluralism and the Problem of Absolute Truth.
10. Nature of Religious Language : Analogical and Symbolic; Cognitivist and Non-cognitive.
Physics
Paper-I
1. (a) Mechanics of Particles. - Laws of motion; conservation of energy and momentum, applications to rotating frames,
centripetal and Coriolis accelerations; Motion under a central force; Conservation of angular momentum, Kepler's laws;
Fields and potentials; Gravitational field and potential due to spherical bodies, Gauss and Poisson equations,
gravitational self-energy; Twobody problem; Reduced mass; Rutherford scattering; Centre of mass and laboratory
reference frames.
(b)
Mechanics of Rigid Bodies. - System of particles; Centre of mass, angular momentum, equations of motion;
Conservation theorems for energy, momentum and angular momentum; Elastic and inelastic collisions; Rigid Body;
Degrees of freedom, Euler's theorem, angular velocity, angular momentum, moments of inertia, theorems of parallel and
perpendicular axes, equation of motion for rotation ; Molecular rotations (as rigid bodies); Di and tri-atomic molecules;
Precessional motion; top, gyroscope.
(c)
Mechanics of Continuous Media. - Elasticity, Hooke's law and elastic constants of isotropic solids and their inter-relation;
Streamline (Laminar) flow, viscosity, Poiseuille's equation, Bernoulli's equation, Stokes' law and applications.
(d)
Special Relativity. - Michelson-Morely experiment and its implications; Lorentz transformations length contraction, time
dilation, addition of relativistic velocities, aberration and Doppler effect, mass-energy relation, simple applications to a
decay process. Four dimensional momentum vector; Covariance of equations of physics.
2. Waves and Optics. - (a) Waves. - Simple harmonic motion, damped oscillation, forced oscillation and resonance;
Beats; Stationary waves in a string; Pulses and wave packets; Phase and group velocities; Reflection and refraction
Page 57/100
----- PAGE 58 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
from Huygens' principle.
(b)
Geometrial Optics. - Laws of reflection and refraction from Fermat's principle; Matrix method in paraxial optic-thin lens
formula, nodal planes, system of two thin lenses, chromatic and spherical aberrations.
(c)
Interference. - Interference of light -Young's experiment, Newton's rings, interference by thin films, Michelson
interferometer; Multiple beam interference and Fabry Perot interferometer.
(d)
Diffraction. - Fraunhofer diffraction - single slit, double slit, diffraction grating, resolving power; Diffraction by a circular
aperture and the Airy pattern; Fresnel diffraction: half-period zones and zone plates, circular aperture.
(e)
Polarisation and Modern Optics. - Production and detection of linearly and circularly polarized light; Double refraction,
quarter wave plate; Optical activity; Principles of fibre optics, attenuation; Pulse dispersion in step index and parabolic
index fibres; Material dispersion, single mode fibers; Lasers-Einstein A and B coefficients. Ruby and He-Ne lasers.
Characteristics of laser light-spatial and temporal coherence; Focusing of laser beams. Three-level scheme for laser
operation; Holography and simple applications.
3. Electricity and Magnetism :
(a)
Electrostatics and Magnetostatics. - Laplace and Poisson equations in electrostatics and their applications; Energy of a
system of charges, multipole expansion of scalar potential; Method of images and its applications. Potential and field
due to a dipole, force and torque on a dipole in an external field; Dielectrics, polarisation. Solutions to boundary-value
problems-conducting and dielectric spheres in a uniform electric field; Magnetic shell, uniformly magnetised sphere;
Ferromagnetic materials, hysteresis, energy loss.
(b)
Current Electricity. - Kirchhoff's laws and their applications. Biot-Savart law, Ampere's law, Faraday's law, Lenz' law.
Self-and mutual-inductances; Mean and rms values in AC circuits; DC and AC circuits with R, L and C components;
Series and parallel resonance; Quality factor; Principle of transformer.
4. Electromagnetic Waves and Blackbody Radiation. - Displacement current and Maxwell's equations; Wave equations
in vacuum, Poynting theorem; Vector and scalar potentials; Electromagnetic field tensor, covariance of Maxwell's
equations; Wave equations in isotropic dielectrics, reflection and refraction at the boundary of two dielectrics; Fresnel's
relations; Total internal reflection; Normal and anomalous dispersion; Rayleigh scattering; Blackbody radiation and
Planck 's radiation law- Stefan-Boltzmann law, Wien's displacement law and Rayleigh-Jeans law.
5. Thermal and Statistical Physics. - (a) Thermodynamics. - Laws of thermodynamics, reversible and irreversible
processes, entropy; Isothermal, adiabatic, isobaric, isochoric processes and entropy changes; Otto and Diesel engines,
Gibbs' phase rule and chemical potential; Van der Waals equation of state of a real gas, critical constants;
Maxwell-Boltzmann distribution of molecular velocities, transport phenomena, equipartition and virial theorems;
Dulong-Petit, Einstein, and Debye's theories of specific heat of solids; Maxwell relations and application;
Clausius-Clapeyron equation. Adiabatic demagnetisation, Joule-Kelvin effect and liquefaction of gases.
(b)
Statistical Physics. - Macro and micro states, statistical distributions, Maxwell-Boltzmann, Bose-Einstein and Fermi-Dirac
Distributions, applications to specific heat of gases and blackbody radiation; Concept of negative temperatures.
Paper-II
1. Quantum Mechanics. - Wave-particle duality; Schroedinger equation and expectation values; Uncertainty principle;
Solutions of the one-dimensional Schroedinger equation for free particle (Gaussian wave-packet), particle in a box,
particle in a finite well, linear harmonic oscillator; Reflection and transmission by a step potential and by a rectangular
barrier; Particle in a three dimensional box, density of states, free electron theory of metals; Angular momentum;
Hydrogen atom ; Spin half particles, properties of Pauli spin matrices.
2. Atomic and Molecular Physics. - Stern-Gerlach experiment, electron spin, fine structure of hydrozen atom; L-S
coupling, J-J coupling; Spectroscopic notation of atomic states; Zeeman effect; Franck-Condon principle and
applications; Elementary theory of rotational, vibrational and electronic spectra of diatomic molecules; Raman effect and
molecular structure; Laser Raman spectroscopy; Importance of neutral hydrogen atom, molecular hydrogen and
Page 58/100
----- PAGE 59 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
molecular hydrogen ion in astronomy. Fluorescence and Phosphorescence; Elementary theory and applications of NMR
and EPR; Elementary ideas about Lamb shift and its significance.
3. Nuclear and Particle Physics. - Basic nuclear properties-size, binding energy, angular momentum, parity, magnetic
moment; Semi-empirical mass formula and applications. Mass parabolas; Ground state of a deuteron, magnetic moment
and non-central forces; Meson theory of nuclear forces; Salient features of nuclear forces; Shell model of the nucleus -
success and limitations; Violation of parity in beta decay; Gamma decay and internal conversion; Elementary ideas
about Mossbauer spectroscopy; Q-value of nuclear reactions; Nuclear fission and fusion, energy production in stars.
Nuclear reactors.
Classification of elementary particles and their interactions; Conservation laws; Quark structure of hadrons : Field
quanta of electroweak and strong interactions; Elementary ideas about unification of forces; Physics of neutrinos.
4. Solid State Physics, Devices and Electronics. - Crystalline and amorphous structure of matter; Different crystal
systems, space groups; Methods of determination of crystal structure; X-ray diffraction, scanning and transmission
electron microscopies; Band theory of solids-conductors, insulators and semi-conductors; Thermal properties of solids,
specific heat, Debye theory; Magnetism: dia, para and ferromagnetism; Elements of super-conductivity, Meissner effect,
Josephson junctions and applications; Elementary ideas about high temperature super-conductivity.
Intrinsic and extrinsic semi-conductors- p-n-p and n-p-n transistors ; Amplifiers and oscillators. Op-amps; FET, JFET and
MOSFET; Digital electronics-Boolean identities, De Morgan's laws, Logic gates and truth tables. Simple logic circuits;
Thermistors, solar cells; Fundamentals of microprocessors and digital computers.
Political Science and International Relations
Paper-I
Political Theory and Indian Politics :
1. Political Theory: meaning and approaches.
2. Theories of state : Liberal, Neo-liberal, Marxist, Pluiralist, post-colonial and Feminist.
3. Justice : Conceptions of justice with special reference to Rawl's theory of justice and its communitarian critiques.
4. Equality : Social, political and economic; relationship between equality and freedom; Affirmative action.
5. Rights : Meaning and theories; different kinds of rights; Concept of Human Rights.
6. Democracy : Classical and contemporary theories; different models of democracy-representative, participatory and
deliberative.
7. Concept of power : hegemony, ideology and legitimacy.
8. Political Ideologies : Liberalism, Socialism, Marxism, Fascism, Gandhism and Feminism.
9. Indian Political Thought: Dharamshastra, Arthashastra and Buddhist Traditions; Sir Syed Ahmed Khan, Sri Aurobindo,
M. K. Gandhi, B. R. Ambedkar, M. N. Roy.
10. Western Political Thought : Plato, Aristotle, Machiavelli, Hobbes, Locke, John S. Mill, Marx, Gramsci, Hannah
Arendt.
Indian Government and Politics :
1. Indian Nationalism. - (a) Political Strategies of India's Freedom Struggle : Constitutionalism to mass Satyagraha,
Non-cooperation, Civil Disobedience; Militant and Revolutionary Movements, Peasant and Workers Movements.
(b)
Perspectives on Indian National Movement; Liberal, Socialist and Marxist; Radical Humanist and Dalit.
2. Making of the Indian Constitution. - Legacies of the British rule; different social and political perspectives.
3. Salient Features of the Indian Constitution. - The Preamble, Fundamental Rights and Duties, Directive Principles;
Parliamentary System and Amendment Procedures; Judicial Review and Basic Structure doctrine :
(a)
Principal Organs of the Union Government : Envisaged role and actual working of the Executive, Legislature and
Supreme Court.
(b)
Principal Organs of the State Government : Envisaged role and actual working of the Executive, Legislature and High
Courts.
4. Grassroots Democracy. - Panchayati Raj and Municipal Government; Significance of 73rd and 74th Amendments;
Grassroot movements.
5. Statutory Institutions/Commissions. - Election Commission, Comptroller and Auditor General, Finance Commission,
Page 59/100
----- PAGE 60 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
Union Public Service Commission, National Commission for Scheduled Castes, National Commission for Scheduled
Tribes, National Commission for Women; National Human Rights Commission, National Commission for Minorities,
National Backward Classes Commission.
6. Federalism. - Constitutional provisions; changing nature of centre-state relations; integrationist tendencies and
regional aspirations; inter-state disputes.
7. Planning and Economic development. - Nehruvian and Gandhian perspectives; Role of planning and public sector;
Green Revolution, land reforms and agrarian relations; liberalization and economic reforms.
8. Caste, Religion and Ethnicity in Indian Politics:
9. Party System. - National and regional political parties, ideological and social bases of parties; Patterns of coalition
politics; Pressure groups, trends in electoral behaviour; changing socio-economic profile of Legislators.
10. Social Movement. - Civil liberties and human rights movements; women's movements; environmentalist movements.
Paper-II
Comparative Politics and International Relations-
Comparative Political Analysis and International Politics :
1. Comparative Politics. - Nature and major approaches; Political economy and political sociology perspectives;
Limitations of the comparative method.
2. State in Comparative Perspective. - Characteristics and changing nature of the State in capitalist and socialist
economies and advanced industrial and developing societies.
3. Politics of Representation and Participation - Political parties, pressure groups and social movements in advanced
industrial and developing societies.
4. Globalisation. - Responses from developed and developing societies.
5. Approaches to the Study of International Relations - Idealist, Realist, Marxist, Functionalist and Systems theory.
6. Key Concepts in International Relations - National interest, security and power; Balance of power and deterrence;
Transational actors and collective security; World capitalist economy and globalisation.
7. Changing International Political Order. - (a) Rise of super powers; Strategic and ideological Bipolarity, arms race and
cold war ; Nuclear threat ;
(b)
Non-aligned Movement : Aims and achievements.
(c)
Collapse of the Soviet Union; Unipolarity and American hegemony; Relevance of non-alignment in the contemporary
world.
8. Evolution of the International Economic System. - From Brettonwoods to WTO; Socialist economies and the CMEA
(Council for Mutual Economic Assistance); Third World demand for new international economic order; Globalisation of
the world economy.
9. United Nations. - Envisaged role and actual record; Specialized UN agencies-aims and functioning; need for UN
reforms.
10. Regionalisation of World Politics. - EU, ASEAN, APEC, AARC, NAFTA.
11. Contemporary Global Concerns. - Democracy, human rights, environment, gender justice terrorism, nuclear
proliferation.
India and the World-
1. Indian Foreign Policy. - Determinants of foreign policy; the institutions of policy-making; Continuity and change.
2. India's Contribution to the Non-Alignment Movement Different phases; Current role.
3. India and South Asia. - (a) Regional Co-operation : SAARC-past performance and future prospects.
(b)
South Asia as a Free Trade Area.
(c)
India's "Look East" policy.
(d)
Impediments to regional co-operation : River water disputes; illegal cross border migration; Ethnic conflicts and
insurgencies; Border disputes.
4. India and the Global South : Relations with Africa and Latin America. - Leadership role in the demand for NIEO and
Page 60/100
----- PAGE 61 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
WTO negotiations.
5. India and the Global Centres of Power. - USA, EU, Japan, China and Russia.
6. India and the UN System: Role in UN Peace-keeping. - Demand for Permanent Seat in the Security Council.
7. India and the Nuclear Question. - Changing perceptions and policy.
8. Recent developments in Indian Foreign Policy. - India's position on the recent crises in Afghanistan, Iraq and West
Asia, growing relations with US and Isreal; Vision of a new world order.
Psychology
Paper-I
Foundations of Psychology -
1. Introduction. - Definition of Psychology; Historical antecedents of Psychology and trends in the 21st centrury;
Psychology and scientific methods; Psychology in relation to other social sciences and natural sciences; Application of
Psychology to societal problems.
2. Methods of Psychology. - Types of research : Descriptive, evaluative, diagnostic and prognostic; Methods of
Research : Survey, observation, case-study and experiments; Characteristics of experimental design and
nonexperimental designs; quasi-experimental designs; Focussed group discussions, brain storming, grounded theory
approach.
3. Research methods. - Major steps in psychological research (problem statement, hypothesis formulation, research
design, sampling, tools of data collection, analysis and interpretation and report writing) ; Fundamental versus applied
research ; Methods of data collection (interview, observation, questionnaire and case study). Research Designs (Ex-post
facto and experimental). Application of statistical techniques (t-test, two-way ANOVA, correlation and regression and
factor analysis) item response theory.
4. Development of Human Behaviour. - Growth and development; Principles of development, Role of genetic and
environmental factors in determining human behaviour; Influence of cultural factors in socialization; Life span
development- Characteristics, development tasks, promoting psychological wellbeing across major stages of the life
span.
5. Sensation, Attention and Perception. - Sensation: concepts of threshold, absolute and difference thresholds,
signal-detection and vigilance; Factors influencing attention including set and characteristics of stimulus; Definition and
concept of perception, biological factors in perception; Perceptual organizationinfluence of past experiences, perceptual
defence-factor influencing space and depth perception, size estimation and perceptual readiness; The plasticity of
perception; Extrasensory perception; Culture and perception, Subliminal perception.
6. Learning. - Concepts and theories of learning (Behaviourists, Gestaltalist and Information processing models). The
processes of extinction, discrimination and generalisation. Programmed learning, probability learning, self instructional
learning, concepts, types and the schedules of reinforcement, escape, avoidance and punishment, modelling and social
learning.
7. Memory. - Encoding and remembering; Shot-term memory, Long-term memory, Sensory memory, Iconic memory,
Echoic memory: The Multistore model, levels of processing; Organization and Mnemonic techniques to improve
memory; Theories of forgetting: decay, interference and retrieval failure: Metamemory; Amnesia: Anterograde and
retrograde.
8. Thinking and Problem Solving. - Piaget's theory of cognitive development; Concept formation processes; Information
processing, Reasoning and problem solving, Facilitating and hindering factors in problem solving, Methods of problem
solving: Creative thinking and fostering creativity; Factors influencing decision making and judgement; Recent trends.
9. Motivation and Emotion. - Psychological and physiological basis of motivation and emotion; Measurement of
motivation and emotion; Effects of motivation and emotion on behaviour; Extrinsic and intrinsic motivation; Factors
influencing intrinsic motivation; Emotional competence and the related issues.
10. Intelligence and Aptitude. - Concept of intelligence and aptitude, Nature and theories of intelligence-Spearman,
Thurstone, Gulford Vernon, Sternberg and J.P. Das; Emotional Intelligence, Social intelligence, measurement of
intelligence and aptitudes, concept of I Q deviation I Q, constancy of I Q; Measurement of multiple intelligence; Fluid
intelligence and crystallized intelligence.
11. Personality. - Definition and concept of personality; Theories of personality (psychoanalytical, socio-cultural,
interpersonal, developmental, humanistic, behaviouristic, trait and type approaches); Measurement of personality
(projective tests, pencil-paper test); The Indian approach to personality; Training for personality development; Latest
Page 61/100
----- PAGE 62 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
approaches like big 5 factor theory; The notion of self in different traditions.
12. Attitudes, Values and Interests. - Definitions of attitudes, values and interests; Components of attitudes; Formation
and maintenance of attitudes. Measurement of attitudes, values and interests. Theories of attitude changes, strategies
for fostering values. Formation of stereotypes and prejudices; Changing other's behaviour, Theories of attribution;
Recent trends.
13. Language and Communication. - Human language- Properties, structure and linguistic hierarchy, Language
acquisition-predispotion, critical period hypothesis; Theories of Language development-Skinner and Chomsky; Process
and types of communication-effective communication training.
14. Issues and Perspectives in Modern Contemporary Psychology. - Computer application in the psychological
laboratory and psychological testing; Artificial intelligence; Psychocybernetics; Study of consciousnessleep-wak
schedules; dreams, stimulus deprivation, meditation, hypnotic drug induced states; Extrasensory perception;
Intersensory perception; Simulation studies.
Paper-II
Psychology : Issues and applications-
1. Psychological Measurement of Individual Differences. - The nature of individual differences. Characteristics and
construction of standardized psychological tests. Types of psychological tests. Use, misuse and limitation of
psychological tests. Ethical issues in the use of psychological tests.
2. Psychological well being and Mental Disorders. - Concept of health-ill health positive health, well being casual
factores in Mental disorders (Anxiety disorders, mood disorders; schizophrenia and delusional disorders; personality
disorders, substance abuse disorders). Factors influencing positive health, well being; lifestyle and quality of life;
Happiness disposition
3. Therapeutic Approaches. - Psychodynamic therapies. Behaviour therapies. Client centered therapy. Cognitive
therapies. Indigenous therapies (Yoga, Meditation). Biofeedback therapy. Prevention and rehabilitation of the mentally
ill; Fostering mental health.
4. Work Psychology and Organisational Behaviour. - Personnel selection and training. Use of Psychological tests in the
industry. Training and human resource development. Theories of work motivation. Herzberg, Maslow, Adam Equity
theory, Porter and Lawler, Vroom; Leadership and participatory management; Advertising and marketing; Stress and its
management; Ergonomics; consumer psychology; Managerial effectiveness; Transformational leadersip; Senitivity
training; Power and politics in organizations.
5. Application of Psychology to Educational Field. - Psychological principles underlying effective teaching-learning
process. Learning styles. Gifted, retarded, learning disabled and their training. Training for improving memory and better
academic achievement. Personality development and value education. Educational, vocational guidance and Career
counselling. Use of Psychological tests in educational institutions; Effective strategies in guidance programmes.
6. Community Psychology. - Definition and concept of Community Psychology. Use of small groups in social action.
Arousing Community consciousness and action for handling social problems. Group decision making and leadership for
social change. Effective strategies for social change.
7. Rehabilitation Psychology. - Primary, secondary and tertiary prevention programmes-role of psychologists. Organising
of services for rehabilitation of physically, mentally and socially challenged persons including old persons. Rehabilitation
of persons suffering from substance abuse, juvenile delinquency, criminal behaviours. Rehabilitation of victims of
violence. Rehabilitation of HIV/AIDS victims, the role of social agencies.
8. Application of Psychology to disadvantaged groups. - The concepts of disadvantaged, deprivation social, physical,
cultural and economic consequences of disadvantaged and deprived groups. Educating and motivating the
disadvantaged towards development; Relative and prolonged deprivation.
9. Psychological problem of social integration. - The concept of social integration. The problem of caste, class, religion
and language conflicts and prejudice. Nature and manifestation of prejudice between the ingroup and outgroup. Casual
factors of such conflicts and prejudices. Psychological strategies for handling the conflicts and prejudices. Measures to
achieve social integration.
10. Application of Psychology in Information Technology and Mass Media. - The present scenario of information
technology and the mass media boom and the role of psychologists. Selection and training of Psychology professionals
to work in the field of IT and mass media. Distance learning through IT and mass media. Entrepreneurship through
e-commerce. Multilevel marketing. Impact of TV and fostering value through IT and mass media. Psychological
Page 62/100
----- PAGE 63 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
consequences of recent developments in Information Technology.
11. Psychology and Economic development. - Achievement motivation and economic development. Characteristics of
entrepreneurial behaviour. Motivating and Training people for entrepreneurship and economic development; Consumer
rights and consumer awareness, Government policies for promotion of entrepreneurship among youth including women
entreprenures.
12. Application of Psychology to environment and related fields. - Environmental Psychology effects of noise, pollution
and crowding. Population Psychology : Psychological consequence of population explosion and high population density.
Motivating for small family norms. Impact of rapid scientific and technological growth on degradation of environment
13. Application of psychology in other fields. - (a) Military Psychology
Devising psycological tests for defence personnel for use in selection, Training, counseling; training psychologists to
work , with defence personnel in promoting positive health; Human engineering in defence.
(b)
Sports Psychology
Psychological interventions in improving performance of athletes and sports. Persons participating in Individual and
Team Games.
(c)
Media influences on pro and anti-social behaviour.
(d)
Psychology of Terrorism.
14. Psychology of Gender. - Issues of discrimination, Management of diversity; Glass ceiling effect, Self-fulfilling
prophesy, Women and Indian society.
Public Administration
Paper-I
Administration Theory-
1. Introduction. - Meaning, scope and significance of Public Administration, Wilson's vision of Public Administration,
Evolution of the discipline and its present status. New Public Administration, Public Choice approach; Challenges of
liberalization, Privatisation, Globalisation; Good Governance: concept and application; New Public Management.
2. Administrative Thought. - Scientific Management and Scientific Management movement; Classical Theory; Weber's
bureaucratic model its critique and post- Weberian Developments; Dynamic Administration (Mary Parker Follett); Human
Relations School (Elton Mayo and others); Functions of the Executive (C.I. Barnard); Simon's decision-making theory;
Participative Man-agement (R. Likert, C. Argyris, D. Mc Gregor.)
3. Administrative Behaviour. - Process and techniques of decision-making; Communication; Morale; Motivation Theories
content, process and contemporary; Theories of Leadership: Traditional and Mo-dem:
4. Organisations. - Theories systems, contingency; Structure and forms: Ministries and Departments, Corporations,
Companies; Boards and Commissions; Ad hoc and advisory bodies; Headquarters and Field relationships; Regulatory
Authorities; Public-Private Partnerships.
5. Accountability and Control. - Concepts of accountability and control; Legislative, Executive and judicial control over
administration; Citizen and Administration; Role of media, interest groups, voluntary organizations; Civil society; Citizen's
Charters; Right to Information; Social audit.
6. Administrative Law. - Meaning, scope and significance ; Dicey on Administrative law; Delegated legislation;
Administrative Tribunals.
7. Comparative Public Administration. - Historical and sociological factors affecting administrative systems;
Administration and politics in different countries; Current status of Comparative Public Administration; Ecology and
administration; Riggsian models and their critique.
8. Development Dynamics. - Concept of development; Changing profile of development administration;
'Anti-development thesis'; Bureaucracy and development; Strong state versus the market debate; Impact of liberalisation
on administration in developing countries; Women and development the self-help group movement.
9. Personnel Administration. - Importance of human resource development; Recruitment, training, career advancement,
position classification, discipline, performance appraisal, promotion, pray and service conditions; employer-employee
relations, grievance redressal mechanism; Code of conduct; Administrative ethics.
10. Public Policy. - Models of policy-making and their critique; Processes of conceptualisation, planning, implementation,
Page 63/100
----- PAGE 64 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
monitoring, evaluation and review and their limitations; State theories and public policy formulation.
11. Techniques of Adminstrative Improvement. - Organisation and methods, Work study and work management;
e-governance and information technology; Man-agement aid tools like network analysis, MIS, PERT, CPM.
12. Financial Administration. - Monetary and fiscal policies: Public borrowings and public debt Budgets types and forms;
Budgetary process; Financial accountability; Accounts and audit.
Paper-II
Indian Administration-
1. Evolution of Indian Administration. - Kautilya Arthashastra; Mughal administration; Legacy of British rule in politics and
administration, Indianization of Public services, revenue administration, district Administration, local self Government. .
2. Philosophical and Constitutional framework of Government. - Salient features and value premises; Constitutionalism;
Political culture; Bureaucracy and democracy; Bureaucracy and development.
3. Public Sector Undertakings. - Public sector in modern India; Forms of Public Sector Undertakings; Problems of
autonomy, accountability and control; Impact of liberalization and privatization.
4. Union Government and Administration. - Executive, Parliament, Judiciary-structure, functions, work processes;
Recent trends; Intra-governmental relations; Cabinet Secretariat; Prime Minister's Office; Central Secretariat; Ministries
and Departments; Boards; Commissions; Attached offices; Field organizations.
5. Plans and Priorities. - Machinery of planning; Role, composition and functions of the Planning Commission and the
National Development Council; 'Indicative' planning; Process of plan formulation at Union and State levels;
Constitutional Amendments (1992) and decentralized planning for economic development and social justice.
6. State Government and Administration. - Union-State administrative, legislative and financial relations; Role of the
Finance Commission; Governor; Chief Minister; Council of Ministers; Chief Secretary; State Secretariat; Directorates.
7. District Administration since Independence. - Changing role of the Collector; Union-State-local relations; Imperatives
of development management and law and order administration; District administration and democratic decentralization.
8. Civil Services. - Constitutional position; Structure, recruitment, training and capacity building; Good governance
initiatives; Code of conduct and discipline; Staff associations; Political rights; Grievance redressal mechanism; Civil
service neutrality; Civil service activism.
9. Financial Management. - Budget as a political instrument; Parliamentary control of public expenditure; Role of finance
ministry in monetary and fiscal area; Accounting techniques; Audit; Role of Controller General of Accounts and
Comptroller and Auditor General of India.
10. Administrative Reforms since Independence. - Major concerns; Important Committees and Commissions; Reforms in
financial management and human resource development; Problems of implementation.
11. Rural Development. - Institutions and agencies since Independence; Rural development programmes: foci and
strategies; Decentralization and Panchayati Raj; 73rd Constitutional amendment.
12. Urban Local Government. - Municipal governance: main features, structures, finance and problem areas; 74th
Constitutional Amendment; Global-local debate; New localism; Development dynamics, politics and administration with
special reference to city management.
13. Law and Order Administration. - British legacy; National Police Commission; Investigative agencies; Role of Central
and State Agencies including paramilitary forces in maintenance of law and order and countering insurgency and
terrorism; Criminalisation of politics and administration; Police-public relations; Reforms in Police.
14. Significant issues in Indian Administration. - Values in public service; Regulatory Commissions; National Human
Rights Commission; Problems of administration in coalition regimes; Citizen administration interface; Corruption and
administration; Disaster management.
Sociology
Paper-I
Fundamentals of Sociology
1. Sociology - The Discipline. - (a) Modernity and social changes in Europe and emergence of Sociology.
(b)
Scope of the subject and comparison with other social sciences.
(c)
Sociology and common sense.
2. Sociology as Science. - (a) Science, scientific method and critique.
Page 64/100
----- PAGE 65 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
(b)
Major theoretical strands of research methodology.
(c)
Positivism and its critique.
(d)
Fact value and objectivity.
(e)
Non-positivist methodologies.
3. Research Methods and Analysis. - (a) Qualitative and quantitative methods.
(b)
Techniques of data collection.
(c)
Variables, sampling, hypothesis, reliability and validity.
4. Sociological Thinkers. - (a) Karl Marx - Historical materialism, mode of production, alienation, class struggle.
(b)
Emile Durkhteim - Division of labour, social fact, suicide, religion and society.
(c)
Max Weber - Social action, ideal types, authority, bureaucracy, protestant ethic and the spirit of capitalism.
(d)
Talcolt Parsons - Social system, pattern variables.
(e)
Robert K. Merton - Latent and manifest functions, conformity and deviance, reference groups.
(f)
Mead - Self and identity.
5. Stratification and Mobility. - (a) Concepts - equality, inequality, hierarchy, exclusion, poverty and deprivation.
(b)
Theories of social stratification-Structural functionalist theory, Marxist theory, Weberian theory.
(c)
Dimensions - Social stratification of class, status groups, gender, ethnicity and race.
(d)
Social mobility - open and closed systems, types of mobility, sources and causes of mobility.
6. Works and Economic Life. - (a) Social organization of work in different types of society - slave society, feudal society,
industrial capitalist society.
(b)
Formal and informal organization of work.
(c)
Labour and society.
7. Politics and Society. - (a) Sociological theories of power.
(b)
Power elite, bureaucracy, pressure groups and political parties.
(c)
Nation, state, citizenship, democracy, civil society, ideology.
(d)
Protest, agitation, social movements, collective action, revolution.
8. Religion and Society. - (a) Sociological theories of religion.
(b)
Types of religious practices: animism, monism, pluralism, sects, cults.
(c)
Religion in modern society: religion and science, secularization, religious revivalism, fundamentalism.
9. Systems of Kinship. - (a) Family, household, marriage.
(b)
Page 65/100
----- PAGE 66 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
Types and forms of family.
(c)
Lineage and descent.
(d)
Patriarchy and sexual division of labour.
(e)
Contemporary trends.
10. Social Change in Modern Society. - (a) Sociological theories of social change.
(b)
Development and dependency.
(c)
Agents of social change.
(d)
Education and social change.
(e)
Science, technology and social change.
Paper-II
Indian Society : Structure and Change
A. Introducing Indian Society :
(i)
Perspectives on the Study of Indian Society :
(a)
Indology (G.S. Ghure).
(b)
Structural functionalism (M. N. Srinivas).
(c)
Marxist sociology (A. R. Desai).
(ii)
Impact of colonial rule on Indian society :
(a)
Social background of Indian nationalism.
(b)
Modernization of Indian tradition.
(c)
Protests and movements during the colonial period.
(d)
Social reforms.
B. Social Structure :
(i)
Rural and Agrarian Social Structure :
(a)
The idea of Indian village and village studies.
(b)
Agrarian social structure- evolution of land tenure system, land reforms.
(ii)
Caste System :
(a)
Perspectives on the study of caste systems: G. S. Ghurye, M. N. Srinivas, Louis Dumont, Andre Beteille.
(b)
Features of caste system.
(c)
Page 66/100
----- PAGE 67 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
Untouchability-forms and perspectives
(iii)
Tribal Communities in India :
(a)
Definitional problems.
(b)
Geographical spread.
(c)
Colonial policies and tribes.
(d)
Issues of integration and autonomy.
(iv)
Social Classes in India :
(a)
Agrarian class structure.
(b)
Industrial class structure.
(c)
Middle classes in India.
(v)
Systems of Kinship in India :
(a)
Lineage and descent in India.
(b)
Types of kinship systems.
(c)
Family and marriage in India.
(d)
Household dimensions of the family.
(e)
Patriarchy, entitlements and sexual division of labour.
(vi)
Religion and Society :
(a)
Religious communities in India.
(b)
Problems of religious minorities.
C. Social Changes in India :
(i)
Visions of Social Change in India :
(a)
Idea of development planning and mixed economy.
(b)
Constitution, law and social change.
(c)
Education and social change.
(ii)
Rural and Agrarian Transformation in India :
(a)
Programmes of Rural Development, Community Development Programme, cooperatives, poverty alleviation schemes.
(b)
Page 67/100
----- PAGE 68 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
Green revolution and social change.
(c)
Changing modes of production in Indian agriculture.
(d)
Problems of rural labour, bondage, migration.
(iii)
Industrialization and Urbanisation in India :
(a)
Evolution of modern industry in India.
(b)
Growth of urban settlements in India.
(c)
Working class : structure, growth, class mobilization.
(d)
Informal sector, child labour.
(e)
Slums and deprivation in urban areas.
(iv)
Politics and Society :
(a)
Nation, democracy and citizenship.
(b)
Political parties, pressure groups, social and political elite.
(c)
Regionalism and decentralization of power.
(d)
Secularization.
(v)
Social Movements in Modern India :
(a)
Peasants and farmers movements.
(b)
Women's movement.
(c)
Backward classes & Dalit movements.
(d)
Environmental movements.
(e)
Ethnicity and Identity movements.
(vi)
Population Dynamics :
(a)
Population size, growth, composition and distribution.
(b)
Components of population growth : birth, death, migration.
(c)
Population Policy and family planning.
(d)
Emerging issues : ageing, sex ratios, child and infant mortality, reproductive health.
(vii)
Challenges of Social Transformation :
Page 68/100
----- PAGE 69 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
(a)
Crisis of development : displacement, environmental problems and sustainability.
(b)
Poverty, deprivation and inequalities.
(c)
Violence against women.
(d)
Caste conflicts.
(e)
Ethnic conflicts, communalism, religious revivalism.
(f)
Illiteracy and disparities in education.
Statistics
Paper-I
1. Probability. - Sample space and events, probability measure and probability space, random variable as a measurable
function, distribution function of a random variable, discrete and continuous-type random variable, probability mass
function, probability density function, vector-valued random variable, marginal and conditional distributions, stochastic
independence of events and of random variables, expectation and moments of a random variable, conditional
expectation, convergence of a sequence of random variable in distribution, in probability, in path mean and almost
everywhere, their criteria and inter-relations, Chebyshev's inequality and Khintchine's weak law of large numbers, strong
law of large numbers and Kolmogoroffs theorems, probability generating function, moment generating function,
characteristic function, inversion theorem, Linderberg and Levy forms of central limit theo-rem, standard discrete and
continuous probability distributions.
2. Statistical Inference. - Consistency, unbiasedness, efficiency, sufficiency, completeness, ancillary statistics,
factorization theorem, exponen-tial family of distribution and its properties, uniformly minimum variance unbiased
(UMVU) estimation, Rao Blackwell and Lehmann-Scheffe theorems, Cramer-Rao inequality for single Parameter.
Estimation by methods of moments, maximum likelihood, least squares, minimum chisquare and modified minimum
chisquare, properties of maximum likelihood and other estimators, asymptotic efficiency, prior and posterior distributions,
loss function, risk function, and minimax estimator. Bayes estimators.
Non-randomised and randomised tests, critical function, MP tests, Neyman-Pearson lemma, UMP tests, monotone
like-lihood ratio: similar and unbiased tests, UMPU tests for single paramet likelihood ratio test and its asymptotic
distribution. Confidence bounds and its relation with tests.
Kolmogorov's test for goodness of fit and its consistency, sign test and its optimality. Wilcoxon signedranks test and its
consistency, Kolmogorov-Smirnov two sampletest, run test, Wilcoxon-Mann- Whitney test and median test, their
consistency and asymptotic normality.
Wald's SPRT and its properties, Oc and ASN functions for tests regarding parameters for Bernoulli, Poisson, normal and
exponential distributions. Wald's fundamental identity.
3. Linear Inference and Multivariate Analysis. - Linear statistical models, theory of least squares and analysis of
variance, Gauss-Markoff theory, normal equations, least squares estimates and their precision, test of significance and
interval estimates based on least squares theory in oneway, two-way and three-way classified data, regression analysis,
linear regression, curvilinear regression and orthogo-nal polynomials, multiple regression, multiple and partial
correlations, estimation of variance and covariance components, multivariate normal distribution, Mahalanobis's D2 and
Hotelling's T2 statistics and their applications and properties, discriminant analysis, canonical correlations, principal
component analysis.
4. Sampling Theory and Design of Experiments. - An outline of fixed-population and super-population approaches,
distinctive features of finite population sampling, propability sampling designs, simple random sampling with and without
replacement, stratified random sampling, sys-tematic sampling and its efficacy, cluster sampling, twostage and
multi-stage sampling, ratio and regression methods of estimation involving one or more auxiliary variables, two-phase
sampling, probability proportional to size sampling with and without replacement, the Hansen-Hurwitz and the Horvitz-
Thompson estimators, non-negative variance estimation with reference to the Horvitz-Thompson estimator,
non-sampling errors.
Page 69/100
----- PAGE 70 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
Fixed effects model (two-way classification) random and mixed effects models (two-way classification with equal
observation per cell), CRD, RBD, LSD and their analyses, incom-plete block designs, concepts of orthogonality and
balance, BIBD, missing plot technique, factorial experiments and 24 and 32, confounding in factorial experiments,
split-plot and simple lattice designs, transformation of data Duncan's multiple range test.
Paper-II
1. Industrial Statistics. - Process and product control, general theory of control charts, different types of control charts for
variables and attributes, X, R, s, p, np and charts, cumulative sum chart. Single, double, multiple and sequential
sampling plans for attributes, OC, ASN, AOQ and ATI curves, concepts of producer's and consumer's risks, AQL, LTPD
and AOQL, Sampling plans for variables, Use of Dodge-Romin tables. Concept of reliability, failure rate and reliability
functions, reliability of series and parallel systems and other simple configurations, renewal density and renewal
function, Failure models: exponential, Weibull, normal, lognormal. Problems in life testing, censored and truncated
experiments for exponential models.
2. Optimization Techniques. - Different types of models in Operations Research, their construction and general methods
of solution, simulation and Monte-Carlo methods formulation of Linear Programming (LP) problem, simple LP model and
its graphical solution, the simplex procedure, the two-phase method and the M-technique with artificial variables, the
duality theory of LP and its economic interpretation, sensitivity analysis, transpotation and assignment problems,
rectangular games, two-person zerosum games, methods of solution (graphical and algebric).
Replacement of failing or deteriorating items, group and individual replacement policies, concept of scientific inventory
management and analytical structure of inventory problems, simple models with deterministic and stochastic demand
with and without lead time, storage models with particular reference to dam type.
Homogeneous discrete-time Markov chains, transition probability matrix, classification of states and ergodic theorems,
homogeneous continuous-time Markov chains, Pois-son process, elements of queuing theory, M/MI, M/M/K, G/ M/l and
M/G/1 queues.
Solution of statistical problems on computers using well-known statistical software packages like SPSS.
3. Quantitative Economics and Official Statistics. - Determination of trend, seasonal and cyclical components, Box-
Jenkins method, tests for stationary series, ARIMA models and determination of orders of autoregressive and moving
average components, fore-casting.
Commonly used index numbers - Laspeyre's, Paasche's and Fisher's ideal index numbers, cham-base index number,
uses and limitations of index numbers, index number of wholesale prices, consumer price, agricultural production and
industrial production, test fot index numbers -proportionality, time-reversal, factor-reversal and circular.
General linear model, ordinary least square and generalized least squares methods of estimation, problem of
multi-collinearity, consequences and solutions of multi-collinearity, autocorrelation and its consequences,
heteroscedasticity of disturbances and its testing, test for independence of disturbances concept of structure and model
for simultaneous equations, problem of identification-rank and order conditions of identifiability, two-stage least square
method of estimation.
Present official statistical system in India relating to population, agriculture, industrial production, trade and prices,
methods of collection of official statistics, their reliability and limitations, principal publications containing such statistics,
various official agencies responsible for data collection and their main functions.
4. Demography and Psychometry. - Demographic data from census, registration, NSS other surveys, their limitations
and uses, definition, construction and uses of vital rates and ratios, measures of fertility, reproduction rates, morbidity
rate, standardized death rate, complete and abridged life tables, construction of life tables from vital statistics and
census returns, uses of life tables, logistic and other population growth curves, fitting a logistic curve, population
projection, stable population, quasi-stable population, techniques in estimation of demographic parameters, standard
classification by cause of death, health surveys and use of hospital statistics.
Methods of standardisation of scales and tests, Z-scores, standard scores, T-scores, percentile scores, intelligence
quotient and its measurement and uses, validity and reliability of test scores and its determination, use of factor analysis
and path analysis in psychometry.
Zoology
Paper-I
1. Non-chordata and Chordata. - (a) Classification and relationship of various phyla up to subclasses: Acoelomate and
Coelomate, Protostomes and Deuterostomes, Bilateria and Radiata; Status of Protista, Parazoa, Onychophora and
Page 70/100
----- PAGE 71 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
Hemichordata; Symmetry.
(b)
Protozoa : Locomotion, nutrition, reproduction, sex; General features and life history of Paramaecium, Monocystis.
Plasmodium and Leishmania.
(c)
Porifera: Skeleton, canal system and reproduction.
(d)
Cnidaria : Polymorphism, defensive structures and their mechanism; coral reefs and their formation; metagenesis;
general features and life history of Obelia and Aurelia.
(e)
Platyhelminthes: Parasitic adaptation; general features and life history of Fasciola and Taenia and their-Pathogenic
symptoms.
(f)
Nemathelminthes : General features, life history, parasitic adaptation of Ascaris and Wuchereria.
(g)
Annelida : Coelom and metamerism; modes of life in polychaetes; general features and life history of Nereis, earthworm
and leach.
(h)
Arthropoda : Larval forms and parasitism in Crustacea; vision and respiration in arthropods (Prawn, cockroach and
scorpion); modification of mouth, parts in insects (cockroach, mosquito, housefly, honey bee and butterfly), metapmor
phosis in insect and its hormonal regulation, social behaviour of Apis and termites.
(i)
Molluscs : Feeding, respiration, locomotion, general features and life history of Lamellidens, Pila and Sepia. Torsion and
detorsion in gastropods.
(j)
Echinodermata : Feeding, respiration, locomotion, larval forms, general features and life history of Asterias.
(k)
Protochordata : Origin of chordates; general features and life history of Branchiostoma and Herdmania.
(l)
Pisces: Respiration, locomotion and migration.
(m)
Amphibia : Origin of tetrapods, parental care, paedomorphosis.
(n)
Reptilia : Origin of reptiles, skull types, status of Sphenodon and crocodiles.
(o)
Aves : Origin of birds, flight adaptation, migration.
(p)
Mammalia : Origin of mammals, dentition, general features of egg laying mammals, pouchedmammals, aquatic
mammals and primates, endocrine glands (pituitary, thyroid, parathyroid, adrenal, pancreas, gonads) and their
interrelationships.
(q)
Comparative functional anatomy of various systems of vertebrates. (integument and its derivatives, endoskeleton,
locomotory organs, digestive system, respiratory system, circulatory system including heart and aortic arches,
urinogenital system, brain and sense organs (eye and ear).
2. Ecology. - (a) Biosphere: concept of biosphere; biomes, Biogeochemical cycles, Human induced changes in
atmosphere including green house effect, ecological succession, biomes and ecotones, community ecology.
(b)
Concept of ecosystem; structure and function of ecosystem, types of ecosystem, ecological succession, ecological
adaptation.
(c)
Population; characteristics, population dynamics, population stabilization.
Page 71/100
----- PAGE 72 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
(d)
Biodiversity and diversity conservation of natural resources.
(e)
Wildlife of India.
(f)
Remote sensing for sustainable development.
(g)
Environmental biodegradation; pollution and its impact on biosphere and its prevention.
3. Ethology. - (a) Behaviour : Sensory filtering, responsiveness, sign stimuli, learning, and memory, instinct, habituation,
conditioning, imprinting.
(b)
Role of hormones in drive; role of pheromones in alarm spreading; crypsis, predator detection, predator tactics, social
hierarchies in primates, social organization in insects;
(c)
Orientation, navigation, homing; biological rhythms: biological clock, tidal, seasonal and circadian rhythms.
(d)
Methods of studying animal behaviour including sexual conflict, selfishness, kinship and altruism.
4. Economic Zoology. - (a) Apiculture, sericulture, lac culture, carp culture, pearl culture, prawn culture, vermiculture.
(b)
Major infectious and communicable diseases (malaria, filaria, tuberculosis, cholera and AIDS) their vectors, pathogens
and prevention.
(c)
Cattle and livestock diseases, their pathogen (helminths) and vectors (ticks, mites, Tabanus, Stomoxys).
(d)
Pests of sugar cane (Pyrilla perpusiella), oil seed (Achaeajanata) and rice (Sitophilus oryzae).
(i)
Transgenic animals.
(e)
Medical biotechnology, human genetic disease and genetic counselling, gene therapy.
(f)
Forensic biotechnology.
5. Biostatistics. - Designing of experiments; null hypothesis; correlation, regression, distribution and measure of central
tendency, chi square, studenttest, F-test (one-way & two-way F-test).
6. Instrumentation methods. - (a) Spectrophotometer, phase contrast and fluorescence microscopy, radioactive tracer,
ultra centrifuge, gel . electrophoresis, PCR, ELISA, FISH and chromosome painting.
(b)
Electron microscopy (TEM, SEM).
Paper-II
1. Cell Biology. - (a) Structure and function of cell and its organelles (nucleus, plasma membrane, mitochondria, Golgi
bodies, endoplasmic reticulum, ribosomes and lysosomes), cell division (mitosis and meiosis), mitotic spindle and mitotic
apparatus, chromosome movement chromosome type ploytene and lambrush, organization of chromatin,
heterochromatin, Cell cycle regulation.
(b)
Nucleic acid topology, DNA motif, DNA replication, transcription, RNA processing, translation, protein foldings and
transport.
2. Genetics. - (a) Modern concept of gene, split gene, genetic regulation, genetic, code.
(b)
Sex chromosomes and their evolution, sex determination in Drosophila and man.
(c)
Mendel's laws of inheritance, recombination, linkage, multiple alleles, genetics of blood groups, pedigree analysis,
hereditary diseases in man.
Page 72/100
----- PAGE 73 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
(d)
Mutations and mutagenesis.
(e)
Recombinant DNA technology, plasmid, cosmid, artificial chromosomes as vectors, transgenics, DNA cloning and whole
animal cloning (principles and methods).
(f)
Gene regulation and expression in prokaryotes and eukaryotes.
(g)
Signal molecules, cell death, defects in signaling pathway and consequences.
(h)
RFLP, RAPD and AFLF and application of RFLP in DNA finger-printing, ribozyme technologies, human genome project,
genomics and protomics.
3. Evolution. - (a) Theories of origin of life.
(b)
Theories of evolution ; Natural selection, role of mutation in evolution, evolutionary patterns, molecular drive, mimicry,
variation, isolation and speciation.
(c)
Evolution of horse, elephant and man using fossil data.
(d)
Hardy-Weinberg Law.
(e)
Continental drift and distribution of animals.
4. Systematics. - Zoological nomenclature, international code, cladistics, molecular taxonomy and biodiversity.
5. Biochemistry. - (a) Structure and role of carbohydrates, fats, fatty acids, cholesterol, proteins and amino-acids, nucleic
acids. Bioenergetics.
(b)
Glycolysis and Krebs cycle, oxidation and reduction, oxidative phosphorylation; energy conservation and release, ATP,
cycl cyclic AMP-its structure and role.
(c)
Hormone classification (steroid and peptide hormones), biosynthesis and functions.
(d)
Enzymes: types and mechanisms of action.
(e)
Vitamins and co-enzymes.
(f)
Immunoglobulin and immunity.
6. Physiology (with special reference to mammals). - (a) Composition and constituents of blood; blood groups and Rh
factor in man ; factors and mechanism of coagulation; iron metabolism, acid-base balance, thermo regulation,
anticoagulants.
(b)
Haemoglobin: Composition, types and role in transport of oxygen and carbon dioxide.
(c)
Digestion and absorption : Role of salivary glands, liver, pancreas and intestinal glands.
(d)
Excretion : nephron and regulation of urine formation; osmoregulation and excretory product.
(e)
Muscles: Types, mechanism of contraction of skel-etal muscles, effects of exercise on muscles.
(f)
Neuron: nerve impulse-its conduction and synaptic transmission ; neurotransmitters.
(g)
Vision, hearing and olfaction in man.
Page 73/100
----- PAGE 74 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
(h)
Physiology of reproduction puberty and menopause in human.
7. Developmental Biology. - (a) Gametogenesis ; spermatogenesis, composition of semen, in vitro and in vivo
capacitation of mammalian sperm, Oogenesis, totipotency; fertilization, morphogenesis and morphogen; blastogeneis,
establishment of body axes formation, fate map, gestulation in frog and chick; genes in development in chick homeotic
genes, development of eye and heart, placenta in mammals.
(b)
Cell lineage, cell to cell interaction, Genetic and induced teratogenesis, role of thyroxine in control of metamorphosisin
amphibia, paedogenesis and neo-teny, cell death, aging.
(c)
Developmental genes in man, in vitro fertilization ; and embryo transfer ; cloning.
(d)
Stem cells: Sources, types and their use in human welfare.
(e)
Biogenetic law.
Languages :
Arabic
Paper-I
1. (a) Origin and Development of the language in outline.
(b)
Significant features of the grammar of the language, Rhetoric's, Prosody.
2. Literary History and Literary criticism-Literary movements, classical background ; Socio-Cultural influences, and
modern trends, Origin and development of modern literary geners including drama, novel, short story, essay.
3. Short Essay-in Arabic.
Paper-II
This paper will require first-hand reading of the texts prescribed and will be designed to test the candidate's critical
ability.
Poets
1. Imraul Qais : His Maullaqah : "Qifaa Nabki mim Zikraa Hawibin Wa Manzil" (Complete).
2. Zohair Bin Abi Sulma : His maullaqah :- "A min Aufaa dimnatun lam takaleami" (Complete).
3. Hassan Bin Thabit : The following live Qasaid from his Diwan : From Qasidah No.1 to Qasidah IV and the Qasidah:
"Lillahi, Darru isaabatin Nadamtuhum + Yauman bijlilaqa."
4. Umar Bin Abi Rabiah: 5 Ghazals from his Diwan :
(i)
Falanma to waqafna was sallantu oshwaqat + Wujudhum Zahahal Husnu and tataquanna, (Complete)
(ii)
Lalta Hindan anjazanta ma taidu + Washaft anfusona mimma tajidu (Complete)
(iii)
Katabtuilaiki min baladi + Kitaba muwallahin Kamadi (Complete).
(iv)
Amin aali Numin anta qhaadin famubkiru ghadata ghadia amraaihum famuhajjaru (Complete).
(v)
Qaalaii Feeha Attequn Maqaalan + FajaratMimma Yaqooluddumoou. (Complete)
5. Farazdaq : The following 4 Qasaid from his Diwan :
(i)
"Haazallazi taariful Bathaau watatahu" in praise of Zainul Abideen Ali Bin Hussain.
(ii)
"Zarrat Sakeenatu atlaahan anakha bihim in praise of Umar Bin A. Aziz.
(iii)
"Wa Koomin tanamul adhyal ainan" in praise of Saeed Bin al- aas. (Complete).
(iv)
Page 74/100
----- PAGE 75 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
"Wa atlasa assaalinwa maakano sahiban" in praise of "the Wolfs"
6. Bashhar Bin Murd. The following two Qasaid from his Diwan :
(i)
"Izaa balaghar raaiul mashwarata fastain + Biraai naseehinaw naseehate haazimi (Complete)
Khaliaiya min Kaabin aeenaa akhookumma - Allaa darahi innal Kareem muinu. (Complete).
7. Abu Nawas. First three Qasaid from his Diwan.
8. Shaqui : The following five Qasaid from his Diwan "Al- Shauqiyal".
(i)
"Ghaaba Boloum" (Complete).
(ii)
"Kaneesaturn saarat ilia masjidi" (Complete).
(iii)
"Ashloo hawaki liman yaloomu fayaozaru" (Complete).
(iv)
"Salaamummin sabaa Baradaa araqqu" (Nakbatu Dimashk). (Complete).
"Salaamun Neel yaa Gandhi - Wa hazaz Zahru min indi" (Complete)
Authors :
1. Ibnul Muqalf: "Kaliala Wa Dimna" excluding Muqaddamah :-
Chapter 1
Complete "AI Asad wa-al thaus".
2. Al-Jahiz: AI-Bayan Wat Tab'in : VII Edited by Abdul Salam Mohd.
Haroon. Cairo, Egypt from pp. 31 to 85.
3. Ibn Khaldun : his Muqaddamah : 39 pages; part six from the first chapter :
From "Affaslul saadis minal kitaabil awal" to "wa min Furooihi al Jabruwal muqabla"
4. Mohmud Timur: Story "Amml Mutawallji" from his book "Qaalar Raavi".
5. Taufiq Al-Hakim : Drama : "Sinnul muntahiraa" from his book "Masrahiyatu Tahtiqal Hakim".
Note : - Candidates will be required to answer some questions carrying not less than 25 percent marks in Arabic also.
Dogri
Paper-I
History of Dogri Language and Literature
(Answers must be written in Dogri)
Section-A
History of Dogri Language :
1. Dogri Language: Origin and development through different stages.
2. Linguistic boundaries of Dogri and its dialects.
3. Characteristic features of Dogri Language.
4. Structure of Dogri Language :
(a)
Sound Structure:
Segmental: Vowels and Consonants
Non-segmental : Length, Stress, Nasalization, Tone and Junture.
(b)
Morphology of Dogri :
(i)
. Inflection Categories: Gender, Number, Case, Person, Tenser and Voice.
(ii)
. Word Formation: use of prefixes, infixes and suffixes.
(iii)
. Vocabulary: tatsam, tadbhav, foreign and regional.
(c)
Sentence Structure ; Major Sentence-types and their constituents, agreement and concord in Dogri syntax.
Page 75/100
----- PAGE 76 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
5. Dogri Language and Scripts : Dogre/Dogra Akkhar, Devanagari and Persia.
Section-B
History of Dogri Language :
1. A brief account of Pre-independence Dogri Literature : Poetry and Prose.
2. Development of modern Dogri Poetry and main trends in Dogri Poetry.
3. Development of Dogri short-story, main trends and prominent shortstorywriters.
4. Development of Dogri Novel, main trends and contribution of Dogri Novelists.
5. Development of Dogri Drama and contribution of prominent playwrights.
6. Development of Dogri Prose: essays, Memoirs and travelogues.
7. An introduction to Dogri Folk Literature-Folk songs, folk tales 7 ballads.
Paper-II
Textual Criticism of Dogri Literature.
(Answers must be written in Dogri)
Section-A
Poetry :
1. Azadi Paihle Di Dogri Kavita
The following poets :
Devi Ditta, Lakkhu, Ganga Ram, Ramdhan, Hardutt, Pahari Gandhi Babak Kanshi Ram and Permanand Almast.
2. Modern Dogri Poetry.
Azadi Bad Di Dogri Kavita-
The following poets :
Kishan Smailpuri, Tara Smailpuri Mohan Lal Sapolia, Yash Sharma, K.S.Madhukar,, Padma Sachdev, Jitendra
Udhampuri, Charan Singh and Prakash Premi
3. Sheeraza Dogri Number 102, Ghazal Ank-
The following poets :
Ram Lal Sharma, Ved Pal Deep, N.D. Jamwal, Shiv Ram Deep, Ashwini Magotra and Virendra Kesar
4. Sheeraza Dogri Number 147, Ghazal Ank-
The following poets :
R. N. Shastri, Jitendra Udhampuri, Champa Sharma and Darsha Darshi.
5. Ramayan (Epic) by Shambhu Nath Sharma (up to Ayodhya Kand)
6. Veer Gulab (Khand Kavya) by Dinoo Bhai Pant.
SECTION-B
Prose :
1. Ajakani Dogri Kahani
The following Short Story Writers :
Madan Mohan Sharma, Narendra Khajuria and B. P. Sathe.
2. Ajakani Dogri Kahani Part-II
The following Short Story Writers :
Ved Rahi, Narsingh Dev Jamwal, Om Goswami, Chahttrapal, Lalit Magotra, Chaman Arora and Ratan Kesar
3. Khatha Kunj Bhag-II
The following Story Writers :
Om Vidyarthi, Champa Sharma and Krishan Sharma.
4. Meel Patthar (collection of short stories) by Bandhu Sharma.
5. Kaiddi (Novel) by Desh Bandhu Dogra Nutan.
6. Nanga Rukkh (Novel) by O.P. Sharma Sarathi.
7. Nayaan (Drama) by Mohan Singh.
8. Satrang (A collection of one-act plays). The following playwrights :
Vishwa Nath Khajuria, Ram Nath Shastri, Jitendra Sharma, Lalit Magotra and Madan Mohan Sharma
9. Dogri Lalit Nibandh
The following authors :
Vishwa Nath Khajuria, Narayan Mishra, Balkrishan Shastri, Shiv Nath, Shyam Lal Sharma, Lakshmi Narayan, D.C.
Page 76/100
----- PAGE 77 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
Prashant, Ved Ghai, Kunwar Viyogi.
English
The syllabus consists of two papers, designed to test a first hand and critical reading of texts prescribed from the
following periods in English Literature: Paper I: 1600-1900 and Paper II: 1900-1990.
(There will be two compulsory questions in each paper: (a) A shortnotes question related to the topics for general study,
and (b) A critical analysis of UNSEEN passages both in prose and verse.)
Paper-I
(Answers must be written in English)
Texts for detailed study are listed below. Candidates will also be required to show adequate knowledge of the following
topics and movements :
The Renaissance ; Elizabethan and Jacobean Drama ; Metaphysical Poetry ; The Epic and the Mockepic ;
Neoclassicism ; Satire ; The Romantic Movement ; The Rise of the Novel ; The Victorian Age.
Section-A
1. William Shakespeare : King Lear and The Tempest.
2. John Donne. The following poems :
-Canonization ;
-Death be not proud ;
-The Good Morrow ;
-On his Mistress going to bed ;
-The Relic ;
3. John Milton: Paradise Lost, I, II, IV, IX.
4. Alexander Pope. The Rape of the Lock.
5. William Wordsworth. The following poems :
-Ode on Intimations of Immortality.
-Tintern Abbey.
-Three years she grew.
-She dwelt among untrodden ways.
-Michael.
-Resolution and Independence.
-The World is too much with us.
-Milton, thou shouldst be living at this hour.
-Upon Westminster Bridge.
6. Alfred Tennyson: In Memoriam.
7. Henrik Ibsen: A Doll's House.
Section-B
1. Jonathan Swift, Gulliver's Travels.
2. Jane Austen. Pride and Prejudice.
3. Henry Fielding. Tom Jones.
4. Charles Dickens. Hard Times.
5. George Eliot. The Mill on the Floss.
6. Thomas Hardy. Tess of the d'Urbervilles.
7. Mark Twain. The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn.
Paper-II
(Answers must be written in English)
Texts for detailed study are listed below. Candidates will also be required to show adequate knowledge of the following
topics and movements :
Modernism ; Poets of the Thirties ; The stream of consciousness Novel ; Absurd Drama ; Colonialism and
Post-Colonialism; Indian Writing in English; Marxist, Psychoanalytical and Feminist approaches to literature;
Post-Modernism.
Section-A
1. William Butler Yeats. The following poems :
Page 77/100
----- PAGE 78 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
-Easter 1916.
-The Second Coming.
-A Prayer for my daughter.
-Sailing to Byzantium.
-The Tower.
-Among School Children.
-Leda and the Swan.
-Meru.
-Lapis Lazuli.
-The Second Coming.
-Byzantium.
2. T. S. Eliot. The following poems :
-The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock.
-Journey of the Magi.
-Burnt Norton.
3. W. H. Auden. The following poems :
-Partition.
-Musee des Beaux Arts.
-In Memory of W. B. Yeats.
-Lay your sleeping head, my love.
-The Unknown Citizen.
-Consider.
-Mundus Et Infans.
-The Shield of Achilles.
-September 1, 1939.
-Petition.
4. John Osborne: Look Back in Anger.
5. Samuel Beckett. Waiting for Godot.
6. Philip Larkin. The following poems :
-Next.
-Please.
- Deceptions.
- Afternoons.
- Days.
- Mr. Bleaney.
7. A.K. Ramanujan. The following poems :
-Looking for a Cousin on a Swing.
-A River.
-Of Mothers, among other Things.
-Love Poem for a Wife 1.
-Small-Scale Reflections on a Great House.
-Obituary.
(All these poems are available in the anthology Ten Twentieth Century Indian Poets, edited by R. Parthasarthy,
published by Oxford University Press, New Delhi).
Section-B
1. Joseph Conrad. Lord Jim.
2. James Joyce. Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man.
3. D.H. Lawrence. Sons and Lovers.
4. E.M. Forster. A Passage to India.
5. Virginia Woolf. Mrs. Dalloway.
6. Raja Rao. Kanthapura.
Page 78/100
----- PAGE 79 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
7. V.S. Naipaul. A House for Mr. Biswa.
Hindi
Paper-I
(Answers must be written in Hindi)
Section-A
1. History of Hindi Language and Nagari Lipi :
I. Grammatical and applied forms of Apbhransh, Awahatta & Arambhik Hindi.
II. Development of Braj and Awadhi as Literary language during medieval period.
III. Early form of Khari-boli in Siddha-Nath Sahitya, Khusero, Sant Sahitaya, Rahim etc. and Dakhni Hindi.
IV. Development of Khari-boli and Nagari Lipi during 19th Century.
V. Standardisation of Hindi Bhasha & Nagari Lipi.
VI. Development of Hindi as a National Language during freedom movement.
VII. The development of Hindi as a National Language of Union of India.
VIII. Scientific & Technical Development of Hindi Language.
IX. Prominent dialects of Hindi and their inter-relationship.
X. Salient features of Nagari Lipi and the efforts for its reform & Standard form of Hindi.
XI. Grammatical structure of Standard Hindi.
Section-B
2. History of Hindi Literature :
I. The relevance and importance of Hindi literature and tradition of writing History of Hindi Literature.
II. Literary trends of the following four periods of history of Hindi Literature.
A. Adikal-Sidh, Nath and Raso Sahitya. Prominent poets- Chandvardai, Khusaro,Hemchandra, Vidyapati.
B. Bhaktikal-Sant Kavyadhara, Sufi Kavyadhara, Krishna Bhaktidhara and Ram Bhaktidhara.
Prominent Poets-Kabir, Jayasi, Sur & Tulsi.
C. Ritikal-Ritikavya, Ritibaddhkavya & Riti Mukta Kavya. Prominent Poets-Keshav, Bihari, Padmakar and Ghananand.
D. Adhunik Kal-
a. Renaissance, the development of Prose, Bharatendu Mandal.
b. Prominent Writers-Bharatendu, Bal Krishna Bhatt & Pratap Narain Mishra.
c. Prominent trends of modern Hindi Poetry: Chhayavad, Pragativad, Prayogvad, Nai Kavita, Navgeet and
Contemporary poetry and Janvadi Kavita.
Prominent Poets-Maithili Sharan Gupta, Prasad, Nirala, Mahadevi, Dinkar, Agyeya, Muktibodh, Nagarjun.
3. Katha Sahitya :
A. Upanyas & Realism
B. The origin and development of Hindi Novels.
C. Prominent Novelists-Premchand, Jainendra, Yashpal, Renu and Bhism Sahani.
D. The origin and development of Hindi short story.
E. Prominent Short Story Writers-Premchand, Prasad, Agyeya, Mohan Rakesh & Krishna Sobti.
4. Drama & Theatre :
A. The Origin & Development of Hindi Drama.
B. Prominent Dramatists-Bharatendu, Prasad, Jagdish Chandra Mathur, Ram Kumar Verma, Mohan Rakesh.
C. The development of Hindi Theatre.
5. Criticism :
A. The origin and development of Hindi criticism : Saiddhantik, Vyavharik, Pragativadi. Manovishleshanvadi & Nai
Alochana.
B. Prominent critics-Ramchandra Shukla, Hajari Prasad Dwivedi, Ram Vilas Sharma & Nagendra.
6. The other form of Hindi prose-Lalit Nibandh,Rekhachitra, Sansmaran, Yatra-vrittant.
Paper-II
(Answers must be written in Hindi)
The paper will require first-hand reading of the prescribed texts and will test the critical ability of the candidates.
Section-A
1.
Page 79/100
----- PAGE 80 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
Kabir
Kabir Granthawali, Ed. Shyam Sundar Das (First
hundred Sakhis)
2.
Surdas
Bhramar Gitsar, Ed. Ramchandra Shukla (First
hundred Padas)
3.
Tulsidas
Ramcharit Manas (Sundar Kand) Kavitawali
(Uttarkand)
4.
Jayasi
Padmawat Ed. Shyam Sundar Das (Sinhal Dwip Khand
and Nagmativiyog Khan)
5.
Bihari
Bihari Ratnakar Ed. Jagnnath Prasad Ratnakar
(First 100 Dohas)
6.
Maithili Sharan Gupta
Bharat Bharati
7.
Prasad
Kamayani (Chinta and Shraddha Sarg)
8.
Nirala
Rag-Virag, Ed. Ram Vilas Sharma (Ram Ki Shakti
Puja & Kukurmutta)
9.
Dinkar
Kurukshetra
10.
Agyeya
Angan Ke Par Dwar (Asadhya Vina)
11.
Mukiboth
Brahm Rakhashas
12.
Nagarjun
Badal Ko Ghirte Dekha Hai, Akal Ke Bad, Harijan
Gatha.
Section-B
1.
Bharatendu
Bharat Durdasha
2.
Mohan Rakesh
Ashad Ka Ek Din
3.
Ramchandra Shukla
Page 80/100
----- PAGE 81 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
Chintamani (Part I) (Kavita Kya Hai, Shraddha
Aur Bhakti)
4.
Dr. Satyendra
Nibandh Nilaya-Bal Krishna Bhatt, Premchand,
Gulab Rai, Hajari Prasad Dwivedi, Ram Vilas Sharma, Agyeya, Kuber
Nath Rai.
5.
Premchand
Godan, Premchand ki Sarvashreshtha Kahaniyan,
Ed. Amirt Rai, Manjusha-Prem Chand ki Sarvashreshtha Kahaniyan.
Ed. Amrit Rai.
6.
Prasad
Skandgupta.
7.
Yashpal
Divya.
8.
Phaniswar Nath Renu
Maila Anchal.
9.
Mannu Bhandari
Mahabhoj.
10.
Rajendra Yadav
Ed. Dunia Sammantar (All Stories)
Kashmiri
Paper-I
(Answers must be written in Kashmiri)
Section-A
1. Genealogical relationship of the Kashmiri language: various theories.
2. Areas of occurrence and dialects (geographical/social).
3. Phonology and grammar.
i. Vowel and consonant system ;
ii. Nouns and pronouns with various case inflections ;
iii. Verbs : various types and tenses ;
4. Syntactic structure :
i. Simple, active and declarative statements ;
ii. Coordination ;
iii. Relativisation.
Section-B
1. Kashmiri literature in the 14th century (Socio-cultural and intellectual background with special reference to Lal Dyad
and Sheikhul Alam).
2. Nineteenth century Kashmiri literature (development of various genres : vatsun; ghazal and mathnavi.
3. Kashmiri literature in the first half of the twentieth century (with special reference to Mahjoor and Azad; various literary
influences).
4. Modern Kashmiri literature (with special reference to the development of the short story, drama, novel and nazm).
Paper-II
(Answers must be written in Kashmiri)
Section-A
Page 81/100
----- PAGE 82 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
1. Intensive study of Kashmiri poetry upto the nineteenth century :
(i)
Lal Dyad ;
(ii)
Sheikhul Aalam ;
(iii)
Habba Khatoon.
2. Kashmiri poetry: 19th Century :
(iv)
Mahmood Gami (Vatsans)
(v)
Maqbool shah (Gulrez)
(vi)
Rasool Mir (Ghazals)
(vii)
Abdul Ahad Nadim (N'at)
(viii)
Krishanjoo Razdan (Shiv Lagun)
(ix)
Sufi Poets (Test in Sanglaab, published by the Department of Kashmiri, University of Kashmir) .
3. Twentieth Century Kashmiri poetry (text in Azich Kashir Shairi, published by the Deptt. of Kashmiri, University of
Kashmir).
4. Literary criticism and research work : development and various trends.
Section-B
1. An analytical study of the short story in Kashmiri :
(i)
Afsana Majmu'a, published by the Deptt. of Kashmiri, University of Kashmir.
(ii)
Kashur Afsana Az, published by the Sahitya Akademi.
(iii)
Hamasar Kashur Afsana, published by the Sahitya Akademi.
The following short story writers only: Akhtar Mohi-ud Din, Kamil, Hari Krishan Kaul, Hraday Kaul Bharti, Bansi Nirdosh,
Gulshan Majid.
2. Novels in Kashmiri: :
(i)
Mujrim by G. N. Gowhar
(ii)
Marun-Ivan Ilyichun, (Kashmiri version of Tolstoy's) The Death of Ivan Ilyich (published by Kashmiri Deptt.)
3. Drama in Kashmiri :
(i)
Natuk Kariv Band by Hari Krishan Kaul
(ii)
Qk Angy Natuk, Ed. Motilal Keemu, published by the Sahitya Akademi.
(iii)
Razi Oedipus, Tr. Naji Munawar, published by the Sahitya Akademi.
4. Kashmiri Folk Literature :
(i)
Kashur Luki Theatre by Mohammad Subhan Bhagat, published by the Deptt. of Kashmiri, University of Kashmir.
(ii)
Kashiry Luki Beeth (all volumes) published by the J&K Cultural Akademy.
Persian
Page 82/100
----- PAGE 83 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
Paper-I
1. (a) Origin and development of the language (in outline)
(b)
Significant features of the grammar of the language Rhetorics Prosody
2. Literary History and Literary criticism-Literary movements, classical backgrounds, Socio Cultural influences and
Modern trends; Origin and development of modern literary genres, including drama, novel, short story, essay.
3. Short Essay in Persian.
Paper-II
This paper will require first-hand reading of the texts prescribed and will be designed to test the candidate's critical
ability.
1. Firdausi, Shah Nama :
(i)
Dastan Rustam wa Suhrab ;
(ii)
Dastan Vizanba Maniza.
2. Nizammi Aruzi Samarquadi Chahar Maqala.
3. Khayyam, Rabaiyat (Radif Alif, Be, Dal).
4. Minucheheri - Qasaid (Racif Lam and Mim).
5. Maulana Rum Masunawi (1st Vol. 1st Half).
6. Sadi Shirazi Gulistan.
7. Amir Khusrau Majma-i-Dawawin Khusrau (Radif Alif and Te)
8. Hafiz,. Diwan -i-Hafiz (1st half)
9. Abdul Fazi. Ain-i-Akbari
10. Bahar Mashhadi Diwan-i-Bahar (I Vol.) (1st half)
11. Jawal Zadesh Yake Bud Yake Na Bud.
Note : - Candidates will be required to answer in Persian questions carrying not less than 25 per cent marks.
Punjabi
Paper-A
(Answers must be written in Punjabi in Gurumukhi script)
Section-A
(a)
Origin of Punjabi Language; different stages of development and recent development in Punjabi Language;
characteristics of Punjabi phonology and the study of its tones; classification of vowels and consonants.
(b)
Punjabi morphology; the number-gender system (animate and inanimate), prefixes, affixes and different categories of
Post positions; Punjabi word formation; Tatsam. Tad Bhav forms; Sentence structure, the notion of subject and object in
Punjabi; Noun and verb phrases.
(c)
Language and dialect : the notions of dialect and idiolect: major dialects of Punjabi : Pothohari, Majhi, Doabi, Malwai,
Paudhi; the validity of speech variation on the basis of social stratification, the distinctive features of various dialects with
special reference to tones language and script; origin and development of Gurumukhi; Suitability of Gurumukhi for
Punjabi.
(d)
Classical background : Nath Jogi Sahit. Medieval Literature : Gurmat, Suti, Kissa and Var : janamsakhis.
Section-B
a.
Modern Trends
Mystic, romantic, progressive and neomystic (Vir
Singh, Puran Singh, Mohan Singh, Amrita Pritam, Bawa Balwant,
Pritam Singh Safeer, J. S.Neki).
Experimentalist (Jasbir Singh Ahluwalia, Avinder
Page 83/100
----- PAGE 84 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
Ravi, Ajaib Kamal). Aesthetes (Harbhajan Singh, Tara Singh).
Neo-progressive (Pash, Jagtar, Patar).
b.
Folk Literature
Folk songs, Folk tales, Riddles, Proverbs.
Epic
(Vir Singh, Avtar Singh Azad, Mohan Singh).
Lyric
(Gurus, Sufis and Modern Lyricists- Mohan Singh,
Amrita Pritam, Shiv Kumar, Harbhajan Singh).
c.
Drama
(I.C. Nanda, Harcharan Singh,Balwant Gargi, S.S.
Sekhon,Charan Das Sidhu).
Novel
(Vir Singh, Nanak Singh, Jaswant Singh Kanwal,
K.S. Duggal,Sukhbir, Gurdial Singh, Dalip Kaur Tiwana, Swaran
Chandan).
Short Story
(Sujan Singh, K. S. Virk, Prem Parkash, Waryam
Sandhu).
d.
Socio-cultural Literary influences ;
Sanskrit, Persian and Western
Essay
(Puran Singh, Teja Singh, Gurbaksh Singh).
Literary Criticism
(S.S. Sekhon, Attar Singh, Kishan Singh,
Harbhajan Singh, Najam Hussain Sayyad).
Paper-II
(Answers must be written in Punjabi in Gurumukhi script)
This paper will require first-hand reading of the texts prescribed and will be designed to test the candidate's critical
ability.
Section-A
Sheikh Farid
The complete Bani as included in the Adi Granth.
Guru Nanak
Japu Ji. Baramah. Asa di Var.
Bulleh Shah
Kafian.
Waris Shah
Heer.
Section B
Shah Mohammad
Jangnama (Jang Singhante Firangian)
Dhani Ram Chatrik
Chandan Vari
(Poet) Sufi Khana
Nawan Jahan
Nanak Singh (Novelist)
Chitta Lahu Pavittar Papi Ek Mian Do Talwaran
Page 84/100
----- PAGE 85 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
Gurbaksh Singh
Zindagi-di-Ras
(Essayist)
Nawan Shivala Merian Abhul Yadaan.
Balraj Sahni (Travelogu)
Mera Roosi Safarnama Mera Pakistani Safarnama
Balwant Gargi (Dramatist)
Loha Kutt Dhuni-di-Agg Sultan Razia
Sant Singh Sekhon (Critic)
Sahityarth  Parsidh Punjabi Kavi Punjabi Kav
Shiromani.
Sanskrit
Paper-I
(There will be three questions as indicated in the Question Paper which must be answered in Sanskrit. The remaining
questions must be answered either in Sanskrit or in English.)
Section-A
1. Significant features of the grammar, with particular stress on Sanjna, Sandhi, Karaka, Samasa, Kartari and Karmani
vacyas (voice usages) (to be answered in Sanskrit).
2. (a) Main characteristics of Vedic Sanskrit language
(b)
Prominent feature of classical Sanskrit language
(c)
Contribution of Sanskrit to linguistic studies
3. General knowledge of:-
(a)
Literary history of Sanskrit
(b)
Principal trends of literary criticism
(c)
Ramayana
(d)
Mahabharata
(e)
The origin and development of literary geners of :
Mahakavya
Rupaka (drama)
Katha
Akhyayika
Campu
Khandakavya
Muktaka Kavya.
Section-B
4. Essentials of Indian Culture with stress on :
(a)
Purusãrthas
(b)
Samskãras
(c)
Varnãsramavyavasthã
(d)
Arts and fine arts
Page 85/100
----- PAGE 86 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
(e)
Technical Sciences.
5. Trends of Indian Philosophy :
(a)
Mïmansã
(b)
Vedãnta
(c)
Nyaya
(d)
Vaisesika
(e)
Sãnkhya
(f)
Yoga
(g)
Bauddha
(h)
Jaina
(i)
Carvãka.
6. Short Essay (in Sanskrit).
7. Unseen passage with the questions (to be answered in Sanskrit).
Paper-II
(Question from Group 4 is to be answered in Sanskrit only. Questions from Groups 1, 2 and 3 are to be answered either
in Sanskrit or in English.)
Section-A
General study of the following groups :-
Group 1
(a) Raghuvamsam-Kalidasa
(b) Kumarasambhavam-Kalidasa
(c) Kiratarjuniyam-Bharavi
(d) Sisupalavadham-Magha
(e) Naisadhiyacaritam-Sriharsa
(f) Kadambari-Banabhatta
(g) Dasakumaracaritam-Dandin
(h) Sivarajyodayam-S.B. Varnekar
Group 2
(a) Isãvãsyopanisad
(b) Bhagavadgitã
(c) Sundarakanda of Valmiki's Ramayana
(d) Arthasastra of Kautilya
Group 3
(a) Svapanavasavadattam-Bhasa
(b) Abhijnanasakuntalam-Kalidasa
(c) Mricchakatikam-Sudraka
(d) Mudraraksasam-Visakhadatta
(e) Uttararamacaritam-Bhavbhuti
(f) Ratnavali-Sriharshavardhana
(g) Venisamharam-Bhattanarayan
Group 4
Page 86/100
----- PAGE 87 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
Short notes in Sanskrit on the following :-
(a) Meghadutam-Kalidasa
(b) Nitisatakam-Bhartrhari
(c) Pancatantra-
(d) Rajatarangini-Kalhana
(e) Harsacaritam-Banabhatta
(f) Amarukasatakam-Amaruka
(g) Gitagovindam-Jayadeva.
Section-B
This section will require first hand reading of the following selected texts:- (Questions from Groups 1 & 2 are to be
answered in Sanskrit only) Questions from Groups 3 and 4 are to be answered either in Sanskrit or English.
Group 1
(a) Raghuvamsam-Canto I, Verses 1 to 10
(b) Kumarasambhavam-Canto I, Verses 1 to 10
(c) Kiratarjuniyaue-Canto I, Verses 1 to 10
Group 2
(a) Isavasyopanisad-Verses-1, 2, 4, 6, 7, 15 and 18
(b) Bhagavatgita II Chapter Verses 13 to 25
(c) Sundarakandam of Valmiki Canto 15, Verses 15 to 30 (Geeta
Press Edition)
Group 3
(a) Meghadutam-Verses 1 to 10
(b) Nitisatakam-Verses 1 to 10 (Edited by D.D. Kosambi
Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan Publication)
(c) Kadambari-Sukanasopadesa (only)
Group 4
(a) Svapnavasavadattam Act VI
(b) Abhijnansakuntalam Act IV Verses 15 to 30 (M.R. Kale
Edition)
(c) Uttararamacaritam Act I Verses 31 to 47 (M.R. Kale
Edition).
Urdu
Paper-I
(Answers must be written in Urdu)
Section-A
Development of Urdu Language :-
(a)
Development of Indo-Aryan :-
(i)
Old Indo-Aryan
(ii)
Middle Indo-Aryan
(iii)
New Indo-Aryan
(b)
Western Hindi and its dialects-Brij Bhasha, Khadi Boli, Haryanavi, Kannauji, Bundeli-
Theories about the origin of Urdu language.
(c)
Dakhani Urdu-origin and development, its significant linguistic features.
(d)
Social and Cultural roots of Urdu language- and its distinctive features.
Page 87/100
----- PAGE 88 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
Script, Phonology, Morphology, Vocabulary.
Section-B
(a)
Genres and their development :
(i)
Poetry : Ghazal, Masnavi, Qasida, Marsia, Rubai Jadid Nazm.
(ii)
Prose : Novel, Short Story, Dastan, Drama, Inshaiya, Khutoot, Biography.
(b)
Significant features of : (i) Deccani, Delhi and Lucknow schools, (ii) Sir Syed movement, Romantic movement,
Progressive movement, Modernism.
(c)
Literary Criticism and its development with reference to Hali, Shibli, Kaleemuddin Ahmad, Ehtisham Hussain,
Ale-Ahmad Suroor.
(d)
Essay writing (covering literary and imaginative topics).
Paper-II
(Answers must be written in Urdu)
(This paper will require first hand reading of the texts prescribed and will be designed to test the candidate's critical
ability.)
Section-A
Mir Amman Ghalib
Bagho-Babar Intikhab-e-Khutoot-e Ghalib
Mohd. Husain Azad
Nairang-e-Khayal
Prem Chand
Godan
Rajendra Singh Bedi
Apne Dukh Mujhe Dedo
Abul Kalam Azad
Ghubar-e-Khatir
Section-B
Mir
Intikhab-e-Kalam-e-Mir (Ed. Abdul Haq.)
Mir Hasan
Sahrul Bayan
Ghalib
Diwan-e-Ghalib
Iqbal
Bal-e-Jibrail
Firaq
Gul-e-Naghma
Faiz
Dast-e-Saba
Akhtruliman
Bint-e-Lamhat
Appendix--III
Regulations for the Medical Examination of candidates for admission to the Jammu and Kashmir Police (Gazetted)
Service.
These regulations are intended merely for the guidance of the Medical Examiners and are not meant to restrict their
discretion in any manner.
Page 88/100
----- PAGE 89 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
1. To be passed as medically fit for admission to the J&K Police (Gazetted) Service, a candidate must be in good mental
and bodily health and free from any physical defect likely to interfere with the efficient performance of the duties of his
appointment.
2. The candidate's height will be measured as follows :-
He will remove his shoes and be placed against the standard with his feet together, and the weight thrown on the heels
and not on the toes of outer sides of the feet. He will stand erect without rigidity and with the heel calves, buttocks and
shoulders touching the standard; the chin will be depressed to bring the vertex of the heel level under the horizontal bar,
and the height will be recorded in centimetres and millimeters.
3. The candidate's chest will be measured as follows :-
He will be made to stand erect with his feet together and to raise his arms over his head. The tape will be so adjusted
round the chest that its upper edge touches the interior angles of the shoulder blades behind and its lower edge the
upper part of the nipple in front. The arms will then be lowered to hand loosely by the side, and care be taken that
shoulders are not thrown upwards or backwards so as to displace the tape.
The candidate will then be directed to take deep inspiration several times, and the maximum expansion of the chest will
be carefully noted. The range of the expansion should not be less than 5 cm. The minimum and maximum will then be
recorded in cms-84-89, 86-91 etc.
In recording the measurement, the following table is given for the guidance of Medical Officer :-
Chest
Age last Birthday
Height without Shoes in cms
Girth when fullyexpanded (cm)
Range of expansionnot less that (cm)
21 and upwards
159 and under 165
88
5
165 and under 173
89
5
173 and under 178
90
5
178 and under 183
91
5
183 and upwards
93
5
4. The candidate will also be weighed, and his weight recorded in Kilograms. Fractions of Kilograms should not be
noted.
5. The following conditions should be observed in connection with the test for acuteness of vision :-
Vision of Candidates :
(a) No candidate will be accepted whose vision
is less than :
Better eye
Worse eye
V-5/6 Reads 6.
V-6/12 Reads 1.
Spectacles will be allowed for either eye up to
plus 5.0 or minus 5.0 D, provided that there are no morbid
changes in the fundus.
Page 89/100
----- PAGE 90 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
(b)
In myopia, if there is a posterior staphyloma, the spectacles must not exceed 2.5 D in either eye.
(c)
In case of astigmatism, the combined lenses must not exceed 5 Diopters and there should be no fundus changes.
(d)
Squint or any other morbid condition of the eyes of the lids of either eye liable to the risk of aggravation or recurrence
will cause the rejection of the candidate.
(e)
Each eye must have a full field of vision as tested by hand movements.
(f)
Any defect in colour vision will be noted, but will not cause rejection of the candidate.
(g)
In case of doubt or of serious abnormality, the opinion of the Ophthalmic Specialist will be obtained.
(h)
No candidate will be accepted whose standard of vision does not come up to the specified requirements without the use
of the contact glasses.
6. The Urine (passed in presence of the Examiner) should be examined and the result recorded.
7. The following additional points should be observed :-
(a)
That the candidate's hearing in each ear is good, and that there is no sign of disease of the ear ;
(b)
that his speech is without impediment ;
(c)
that his teeth are in good order and that he is provided with dentures where necessary for effective mastication (well
filled teeth will be considered as sound) ;
(d)
that his chest is well formed and his chest expansion sufficient, and that his heart and lungs are sound ;
(e)
that there is no evidence of abdominal disease ;
(f)
that he is not raptured ;
(g)
that he does not suffer from hydrocelea severe degree of varicose, varico sevens or piles ;
(h)
that his limbs, hands and feet are well formed and developed and that there is free and perfect motion of all his joints ;
(i)
that he does not suffer from any inveterate etc. skin disease ;
(j)
that there is no congenital malformation or defect ;
(k)
that he does not bear traces of acute or chronic disease pointing to an impaired constitution ;
(l)
that he bears marks of efficient vaccination and evidence of re-vaccination within the last 12 months.
When any defect is found, it must be noted in the certificate and the Medical Examiner should state his opinion whether
or not it is likely to interfere with the efficient performance of the duties which will be required of the candidate. If the
condition is remediable by operation, it should be stated.
The following intimation is made for the guidance of the Medical Examiner :-
1. In the medical examination of candidates, Medical Officers are specially required to use tact and judgment and to take
proper precaution to secure privacy with the object of removing any objection which may be made by individuals to
stripping.
2. Should a candidate object to the exposure of his person for the detection of haemorrhoide, venereal diseases, hernia
Page 90/100
----- PAGE 91 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
and disease of the testicles, scrotum and rectum, the candidate must, if this examination in his case is in the opinion of
the Board necessary, be rejected.
3. The opinion of the Board accepting or rejecting a candidate is final and cannot be questioned on this ground. The
Board is debarred from disclosing to any candidate, permanently unfit, the reasons for his rejection. In these cases, their
opinion and report is to be treated as strictly confidential and for the information of Government only. Where, however
the Board detects a temporary defect amendable to treatment, the candidate may be so informed in order that he may
have the defect remedied and present himself for re-examination.
4. No person will be deemed qualified for admission to the service who shall not satisfy the Government that he has no
disease, constitutional affection or bodily infirmity unfitting him or likely to unfit him, for that service.
5. It should be understood that the question of fitness involves the future as well as the present, and the main object of
medical examination is to secure continuous effective service, and in the case of candidates for permanent appointment
to prevent early pension or payment in case of premature death. It is, at the same time, to be noted that the question is
one of the likelihood of continuous effective service and that the rejection of a candidate need not be advised on account
of the presence of a defect which only in a small proportion of cases is found to interfere with continuous effectively
service.
The candidate must make the statement required below prior to his medical examination and must sign the declaration
appended thereto. His attention is specially directed to the warning contained in the note below :-
1. State your name in full.
2. State your age and birth place.
3. (a) have you ever had small pox intermittent or any other fever, enlargement of suppuration of glands, spitting of
blood, asthama, inflammation of lungs, heart disease, fainting attacks, rheumatism, or appendicitis.
(b)
any other disease or accident requiring confinement to bed, and medical or surgical treatment.
Or
(c)
have you ever been rejected by a Medical Board or a duly constituted Medical Authority ?
4. When were you last vaccinated ?
5. Have you or any of your nearer relations been affected with consumption, scrofula, asthama, fits, epilepsy, or insanity
?
6. Have you suffered from any form of nervousness due to overwork or any other cause ?
7. Furnish the following particulars concerning your family:-
I
II
III
IV
Father's age if livingand state of health
Father's age at deathand cause of death
Number of brothers living,their age and state
of health
Number of brothers dead,their age and cause of
death
V
VI
VII
VIII
Mother's age if livingand state of health
Mother's age at deathand cause of death
Number of sisters living,their age and and
state of health
Number of sisters dead,their age and cause of
death
Page 91/100
----- PAGE 92 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
I. declare all the above answers to be, to the best of my belief, true and correct and accept the findings of the Board as
final.
Candidate's Signature.
Medical Examiner's Report :
Question
Answers
Remarks
1. Has the declaration of the preceding page
been signed by the candidate ?
2. Are there any evidences of malformation
congenital or acquired ?
3. Is he free from scars and has he the full
use of all limbs ?
4. Are there any indications of a decided
cashetic or diathetic state of constitution ?
5. Are there any signs of disease of the
nervous system ?
6. Is the hearing good ? Is there any sign of
any ear disease ?
7. Has the candidate been vaccinated within the
last 12 months ?
8. What is the candidate's vision ? R. E. V.
with glass. Reads. L. E. V. with glasses. Spectacles if any R.
E. L. E.
9. Is the candidate free from stamer or other
serious defect in speech ?
10. Are there any signs of disease of the
bones, joints or parts connected therewith ?
11. Is there any serious infection of the skin
?
12. (a) Is the heart and arteries healthy ? (b)
Blood pressure- Systolic/Diastolic ?
13. Has the candidate haemorrhoide, vericoele
or other affection of veins ?
14. Is there any sign of disease of the
digestive organs ?
15. Are there any signs of disease of the
respiratory organs ?
16 Is the candidate free from rapture ?
17. Is there any indication of disease of the
genital organs ?
18. (A) Is the urine free from :- (1) Albumen
(2) Sugar (B) Is the urine otherwise normal ?
19. Is there anything in the health of the
candidate likely to render him/her unfit for the efficient
discharge of his/her duties in the service for which he is a
candidate ?
20. Do you consider the candidate in all
respects qualified for the efficient and continuous discharge of
his/her duties in the service for which he/she is a candidate ?
(I) Height without shoes,
Page 92/100
----- PAGE 93 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
(II) Girth of Chest (full inspiration)
(III) Weight
President.
Member.
Member.
Dated:..................
Note : - 1. The candidate will be held responsible for the accuracy of the above statement. By willfully suppressing any
information, he will incur the risk of losing the appointment and, if appointed of forfeiting all claims to superannuation
allowance or gratuity.
Note : -2. A candidate for direct recruitment should attach with the prescribed application a treasury receipt for an
amount of Rs.100 on account of Medical Examination fee which shall not be refundable in the event of the candidates
failing to be selected by the Medical Board.
Appendix-IV
Regulations relating to the Physical Examination of Candidates.
These regulations are notified for the convenience of candidates and in order to enable them to ascertain the probability
of their coming up to the required physical standard. But it must be clearly understood that the Government reserves an
absolute discretion to reject as unfit any candidate whom it may consider on the report of the Medical Board, to be
physically disqualified and that its discretion, is in no respect limited by these regulations. These regulations are
intended merely for the guidance of Medical Examiners and are not meant to restrict the discretion of the Government in
any way.
(1)
To be passed as fit for appointment, a candidate must be in good mental and bodily health and free from any physical
defect likely to interfere with the efficient performance of the duties of his appointment :
Provided that the Medical Board shall intimate the nature and degree of disability of physically challenged candidate in
terms of Government Order No. 147-SW of 2014 dated 17-06-2014 with specific recommendations, if any, in respect of
each of such candidate(s) for appointment to various posts through the Combined Competitive Examination.
(2)
In the matter of correlation of age, height and chest girth of candidate, it is left to the Medical Board to use whatever
correlation figures are considered most suitable as a guide in the examination of the candidates. If there be any
disproportion with regard to height, weight and chest girth, the candidate should be hospitalized for investigation and
X-Ray of the chest taken before the candidate is declared fit or not fit by the Board.
(3)
The candidate will be weighed and his weight recorded in kilograms; fractions of a half a kilogram should not be noted.
(4)
The candidate's eye sight will be tested in accordance with the following rules. The result of each test will be recorded :-
(i)
General : - The candidate's eyes will be subjected to a general examination directed to the detection of any disease or
abnormality. The candidate will be rejected if he suffers from any squint or morbid conditions of eyes, eye-lids or
contiguous structures of such a sort as to render or likely at a future date to render him unfit for service ;
(ii)
Visual Acuity : - The examination for determining the acuteness of vision includes two tests, one for distant, the other for
near vision. Each eye will be examined separately.
There shall be no limit for minimum naked-eye vision but the naked-eye vision of the candidates shall, however, be
recorded by the Medical Board or Medical Authority in every case, as it will furnish the basic information in regard to the
condition of the eye.
The standards for distant and near vision with or without glasses shall be as follows :-
Distant vision
Near vision
Better eye
Worse eye
Better eye
Page 93/100
----- PAGE 94 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
Worse eye
6/9
6/9
Sn. 0 6
Sn. 0
or
6/6
6/12
Note : - (1) Total amount of Myopia (including the cylinder) shall not exceed 8.00 D in each eye. Total Hypermetropia
shall not exceed + 6.00 D in each eye.
(2)
Fundus Examination :-Wherever possible, fundus examination will be carried out at the discretion of the Medical Board
and results recorded.
(3)
Colour Vision :- Colour perception should be graded into a higher and a lower grade depending upon the size of the
aperture in the lantern as described in the table below :-
Grade
Higher Grade of Colour perception
Lower Grade of Colour perception
_____________
_______________
________
1. Distance between the Lamp and Candidate
4.9 meters
4.9 meters
2. Size of Aperture
1.8 mm
1.8 mm
3. Time of Exposure
5 sec.
5 sec.
(iii)
Satisfactory colour vision constitutes recognition with ease and without hesitation of signal red, signal green and white
colours. The use of Ishihara's Plates, shown in good light and suitable lantern like Edrige green's shall be considered
quite dependable for testing colour vision. In doubtful cases, where a candidate fails to qualify when tested by only one
of the two tests, both the tests should be employed.
(4)
Field of Vision :-The field of vision shall be tested in respect of all services by the confrontation method. Where such test
gives unsatisfactory or doubtful results, the field of vision should be determined on the perimeter.
(5)
Night Blindness : Night blindness need not be tested as a routine but only in special cases. No standard test for the
testing of night blindness or dark adaptation is prescribed. The medical board should be given the discretion to
improvise such rough tests, e. g. recording the visual acuity with reduced illumination or by making the candidate
recognize various objects in a darkened room after he/she has been there for 20 to 30 minutes. Candidate's own
statements should not always be relied upon but they should be given due consideration.
(6)
Ocular conditions other than visual acuity :-
(a)
Any organic disease or a progressive refractive error which is likely to result in lowering the visual activity should be
considered as a disqualification.
(b)
Page 94/100
----- PAGE 95 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
Trachoma : - Trachoma unless complicated shall not ordinarily be a cause for disqualification.
(c)
If a person has one eye or if he has one eye which has normal vision and the other eye is ambylopic or has subnormal
vision the usual effect is that the person is lacking stereoscopic vision for perception of depth. Such vision is not
necessary for many civil posts. The medical board may recommend as fit, such persons provided the normal eye has-
(a)
6/6 distant vision J1 near vision with or without correction with glasses / contact lens/efractive surgery like Lasik, ICL,
IOL etc.
(b)
Has full field of vision.
(c)
Normal colour vision wherever required : - Provided the board is satisfied that the candidate can perform all the
functions for the particular job in question. The above relaxed standard of visual acuity will NOT apply to J&K Police (G)
Service .
(7)
Blood pressure : - The Board will use its discretion regarding Blood Pressure. A rough method of calculating normal
maximum systolic pressure is as follows :-
(i)
With young subjects, 15-25 years of age, the average is about 100 plus the age.
(ii)
With subjects over 25 years of age, the general rule of 110 plus half the age seems quite satisfactory.
N.B. : - As a rule any systolic pressure over 140 mm. and diastolic over 90 mm. should be regarded as suspicious and
the candidate should be hospitalized by the Board before giving their final opinion regarding the candidate's fitness or
otherwise. The hospitalization report should indicate whether the rise in Blood Pressure is of a transient nature due to
excitement etc. or whether it is due to any organic disease. In all such cases, X-Ray and electrocardiographic
examinations of heart and blood urea clearance test should also be done as a routine. The final decision as to the
fitness or otherwise of a candidate will, however, rest with the medical board only.
Method of taking Blood Pressure : - The mercury manometer type of instrument should be used as a rule. The
measurement should not be taken within fifteen minutes of any exercise of excitement ; Provided the patient and
particularly his arm is relaxed, he may be either lying or sitting. The arm is supported comfortably at the patient's side in
a more or less horizontal position. The arm should be free from the clothes to the shoulder. The cuff completely deflated
should be applied with the middle of the rubber over the inner side of the arm, and its lower edge an inch or two above
the bend of the elbow. The following turns of cloth bandage should spread evenly over the bag to avoid bulging during
inflation.
The brachial artery is located by palpitation at the bend of the elbow and the stethoscope is then applied lightly and
centrally over it below, but not in contact with the cuff. The cuff is inflated to above 200 mm. Hg. and then slowly
deflated. The level at which the column stands when soft successive sounds are heard represents the Systolic Pressure.
When more air is allowed to escape the sounds will be heard to increase in intensity. The level at which the well-heard
clear sound change to soft muffled fading sounds represents the diastolic pressure. The measurements should be taken
in a fairly brief period of time as prolonged pressure of the cuff is irritating to the patient and will vitiate the readings.
Rechecking, if necessary, should be done only a few minutes after complete deflation of the cuff. Sometime as the cuff
is deflated, sounds are heard at a certain level; they may disappear as pressure falls and re-appears at a still lower
level. This "Silent gap" may cause error in reading.
8. The urine (passed in presence of the examiner) should be examined and the results recorded. Where a Medical
Board finds sugar present in a candidate's urine by the usual chemical tests, the Board will proceed with the examination
with all its other aspects and will also specially note any signs or symptoms suggestive of diabetes. If except for the
glycosauria the Board finds the candidate conforms to the standard of medical fitness required, they may pass the
candidate. "fit subject to the glycosauria being non-diabetic" and the Board will refer the case to a specified specialist in
Medicine who has hospital and laboratory facilities at his disposal. The Medical Specialist will carry out whatever
examinations clinical and laboratory he considers necessary including a standard blood sugar tolerance test and will
submit his opinion to the Medical Board upon which the Medical Board will base its final opinion "fit" or "unfit". The
Page 95/100
----- PAGE 96 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
candidate will not be required to appear in person before the Board on the second occasion. To exclude the effects of
medication it may be necessary to retain, a candidate for several days in hospital under strict supervision.
9. The following additional points should be observed :-
(a)
that the candidate's hearing in each ear is good and that there is no sign of disease of the ear. In case it is defective, the
candidate should be examined by the ear specialist ; Provided that if the defect in hearing is remediable by operation or
by use of a hearing aid, a candidate cannot be declared unfit on that account provided he/she has no progressive
disease in the ear ;
(b)
that his/her speech is without impediment ;
(c)
that his/her teeth, are in good order and that he/she is provided with denture where necessary for effective mastication
(well filled teeth will be considered as sound) ;
(d)
that the chest is well formed and his/her chest expansion sufficient; and that his heart and lungs are sound ;
(e)
that there is no evidence of any abdominal disease ;
(f)
that he/she is not raptured ;
(g)
that he/she does not suffer from hydrocele, a severe degree of varicocele, varicose veins or piles ;
(h)
that his/her limbs, hands and feet are well formed and developed and that there is free and perfect motion of all his joints
;
(i)
that he/she does not suffer from any inveterate skin disease ;
(j)
that there is no congenital malformation or defect ;
(k)
that he/she does not bear traces of acute or chronic disease pointing to an impaired constitution ;
(l)
That he/she bears-marks/proof of efficient vaccination ; and
(m)
that he/she is free from communicable disease.
10. Radiographic examination of the chest should be done as a routine in all cases for detecting any abnormality of the
heart and lungs, which may not be apparent by ordinary physical examination.
11. When any defect is found it must be noted in the certificate and the medical examiner should state his opinion
whether or not it is likely to interfere with the efficient performance of the duties which will be required of the candidate.
Note : - Candidates are warned that there is no right of appeal from a Medical Board, special or standing, appointed to
determine their fitness for the above service. If however, the Government is satisfied on the evidence produced before it
of the possibility of an error of judgment in the decision of the First Board, it is open to the Government to allow an
appeal to a Second Board. Such evidence should be submitted within one month of the date of the communication in
which the decision of the First Medical Board is communicated to the candidate, otherwise no request for an appeal to a
second Medical Board, will be considered.
If any medical certificate is produced by a candidate as a piece of evidence about the possibility of an error of judgment
in the decision of the First Board, the certificate will not be taken into consideration unless it contains a note by the
medical practitioner concerned to the effect that it has been given in full knowledge of the fact that the candidate has
already been rejected as unfit for service by the Medical Board.
Medical Board's Report. - The following intimation is made for the guidance of the Medical Examiner :-
1. The standard of physical fitness to be adopted should make on due allowance for the age and length of service, if
any, of the candidate concerned. No person will be deemed qualified for admission to the Public Service who shall not
Page 96/100
----- PAGE 97 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
satisfy the appointing authority, as the case may be, that he/she has no disease, constitutional infection, or bodily
infirmity unfitting him, or likely to unfit him/her for that service.
It should be understood that the question of fitness involves the future as well as the present and that one of the main
objects of medical examination is to secure continuous effective service. It is at the same time to be noted that the
question is one of the likelihood of continuous effective service, and that rejection of a candidate need not be advised on
account of the presence of a defect which only in a small proportion of cases is found to interfere with continuous
effective service.
A lady doctor will be co-opted as a member of the Medical Board whenever a woman candidate is to be examined.
The report of the Medical Board should be treated as confidential.
In case where a candidate is declared unfit for appointment in the Government Service the grounds for rejection may be
communicated to the candidate in broad terms without giving minute details regarding the defect pointed out by the
Medical Board.
In case where a Medical Board considers that a minor disability disqualifying a candidate for Government Service can
be cured by treatment (medical or surgical), a statement to that effect should be recorded by the Medical Board. There is
no objection to a candidate being informed of the Board's opinion to this effect by the appointing authority and when a
cure has been effected it will be open to the authority concerned to ask for another Medical Board.
In the case of candidates who are to be declared "Temporarily Unfit" the period specified for re-examination should not
ordinarily exceed six months at the maximum. On re-examination after the specified period these candidates should not
be declared temporarily unfit for a further period but a final decision with regard to their fitness for appointment or
otherwise should be given.
(a)
Candidate's statement and declaration. - The candidate must take the statement required below prior to his Medical
Examination and must sign the Declaration appended thereto. His/her attention is specially directed to the warning
contained in the Note below : -
1.
State your name in full (in block letters)
.....................
2.
State your age and birth place
......................
3.
(a) have you ever had
small-pox, intermittent or any other fever, enlargement or
suppuration of glands, spitting of blood, asthma heart disease,
lung disease, fainting attacks, rheumatism, appendicitis ?
(b) any other disease or accident requiring
confinement to bed and medical or surgical treatment ?
.........................
.........................
4.
When were you last vaccinated ?
.........................
5.
Have you or any of your near relations been
affected with consumption, scrofula, gout, asthma, fits,
epilepsy, or insanity ?
.....................
6.
Have you suffered from any form of nervousness
due to over-work or any other cause ?
.........................
Page 97/100
----- PAGE 98 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
7. Furnish the following particulars concerning
your family :-
I
II
III
IV
Father's age if livingand state of health
Father's age at deathand cause of death
Number of brothers living,their age and state
of health
Number of brothers dead,their age and cause of
death
V
VI
VII
VIII
Mother's age if livingand state of health
Mother's age at deathand cause of death
Numbers of sisters living,their age and state
of health
Number of sisters dead,their age and cause of
death
8.
Have you been examined by a Medical Board
before ?
......................
9.
If answer to the above is yes, please state
what service/services you were examined for ?
.......................
10.
Who was the examining authority ?
........................
11.
When and where was the Medical Board held ?
......................
12.
Result of the Medical Board's Examination if
communicated to you or if known ?
......................
I declare all the above answers to be, to the
best of my belief, true and correct.
Candidate's Signature........................
Signed in my presence.
Signature of the Chairman of the Board.
Note : - The candidate will be held responsible for the accuracy of the above statement. By willfully suppressing any
information, he/ she will incur the risk of losing the appointment and, if appointed, of forfeiting all claims to
Superannuation Allowance or Gratuity.
(b)
Report of Medical Board on (name of candidate) physical examination.
1. General development :- Good..........Fair................ Poor........................... Nutrition :
Page 98/100
----- PAGE 99 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
Thin..............Average...............Obese........... Height (Without shoes)...............Weight................ Best
Weight.................................... Any recent change in weight.......................................Temperature.............
Girth of Chest :-
(1) (After full inspiration)
(2) (After full expiration)
2.
Skin : Any obvious disease
......................
3.
Eyes :-
(1) Any disease
.......................
(2) Night blindness
.......................
(3) Defect in colour vision
......................
(4) Field of vision
......................
(5) Visual acuity
.....................
Acuity of vision
Naked-eye
With Sph.
glasses Strength of glassCyl. Axix
Distant Vision
RE
LE
Near Vision
RE
LE
Hypermetropia (Manifest) RE/LE
4. Ears Inspection..............Hearing Right Ear.................... Left Ear....................
5. Glands........................Thyroid.....................
6. Condition of teeth..................
7. Respiratory System:- Does physical examination reveal anything abnormality in the respiratory organs ? If yes,
explain fully.............................
8. Circulatory System : -
(a)
Heart : Any organic lesions ? ................ Rate Standing..................
(After hopping 25 times...............................
2. minutes after hopping...............................)
(b)
Blood Pressure: Systolic...................Diastolic...............
9. Abdomen: Girth......................Tenderness.......... Hernia......................................
(a)
Palpable : Liver...............Spleen............... Kidneys........................Tumours..............
(b)
Hemorrhoids...................Fistula................
10. Nervous system: Indication of nervous or mental disabilities.
11. Loco-Motor System: Any abnormality......................
12. Genito Urinary System : Any evidence of Hyderocele, Variocele etc.
Page 99/100
----- PAGE 100 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Combined Competitive Examination Rules, 2018
Urine Analysis :-
(a)
Physical appearance.
(b)
Sp. Gr...............
(c)
Albumen.............
(d)
Sugar..................
(e)
Castes....................
(f)
Cells....................
13. Report of X-Ray Examination of Chest.
14. Is there anything in the health of the candidate likely to render him/ her unfit for the efficient discharge of his/her
duties in the service for which he/she is a candidate........................
Note : - The Board should record their findings under one of the following three categories :-
(i)
Fit.
(ii)
Unfit on account of ......................
(iii)
Temporary unfit on account of ..................
Chairman.....................
Member.......................
Member.......................
Place.......................
Dated.......................
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 100/100