
----- PAGE 1 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Drugs and Magic Remedies (Objectionable Advertisements) Act, 2018
Jammu and Kashmir Drugs and Magic Remedies (Objectionable
Advertisements) Act, 2018
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/29643100/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Jammu-Kashmir - Act
Jammu and Kashmir Drugs and Magic Remedies (Objectionable Advertisements) Act, 2018
JAMMU & KASHMIR
India
Jammu and Kashmir Drugs and Magic Remedies (Objectionable Advertisements) Act, 2018
Act 8 of 2018
Published on 10 August 2018
Commenced on 10 August 2018
[This is the version of this document from 10 August 2018.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Jammu and Kashmir Drugs and Magic Remedies (Objectionable Advertisements) Act, 2018
(Act
No. 8 of 2018
)
[Dated 10th August, 2018.]
An Act to control the advertisement of drugs in certain cases, to prohibit the advertisement for certain purposes of
remedies alleged to possess magic qualities and to provide for matters connected therewith.
In exercise of the powers vested under Proclamation No. P-1/18 of 2018 dated 20th June, 2018, the Governor is
pleased to enact as follows :-
Page 1/5
----- PAGE 2 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Drugs and Magic Remedies (Objectionable Advertisements) Act, 2018
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
This Act may be called the Jammu and Kashmir Drugs and Magic Remedies (Objectionable Advertisements) Act, 2018.
(2)
It shall come into force on such date as the Government may, by notification in the Government Gazette, appoint.
2.
Definitions.
- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Act" means the Jammu and Kashmir Drugs and Magic Remedies (Objectionable Advertisements) Act, 2018 ;
(b)
"advertisement" includes any notice, circular, label, wrapper, or other document, and any announcement made orally or
by any means of producing or transmitting light, sound or smoke ;
(c)
"drug" includes -
(i)
a medicine for the internal or external use of human beings or animals ;
(ii)
any substance intended to be used for or in the diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment or prevention of disease in human
beings or animals ;
(iii)
any article, other than food intended to effect or influence in any way the structure or any organic function of the body of
human beings or animals ;
(iv)
any article intended for use as a component of any medicine, substance or article, referred to in sub-clauses (i), (ii) and
(iii) ;
(d)
"Government" means the Government of Jammu and Kashmir ;
(e)
"magic remedy" includes a talisman, mantra and any other charm of any kind which is alleged to possess miraculous
powers for or in the diagnosis, cure, mitigation treatment or prevention of any disease in human beings or animals or for
affecting or influencing in any way the structure or any organic function of the body of human beings or animals ;
(f)
"registered medical practitioner" means any person, -
i. who holds a qualification granted by an authority specified in, or notified under, section 3 of the Indian Medical
Degrees Act, 1916 (Central Act) , specified in the Schedules to the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 (Central Act) or
specified in the Schedule to the Jammu and Kashmir Medical Registration Act, Samvat 1988 ; or
ii. who is entitled to be registered as a medical practitioner under any law for the time being in force in the State ;
(g)
"taking any part in the publication of any advertisement" includes -
i. the printing of the advertisement ; and
ii. the publication of any advertisement outside the State at the instance of a person residing in the State.
3.
Prohibition of advertisement of certain drugs for treatment of certain diseases and disorders.
- Subject to the provisions of the Act, no person shall take any part in the publication of any advertisement referring to
any drug in terms, which suggest or are calculated to lead to the use of that drug for, -
(a)
the procurement of miscarriage in women or prevention of conception in woman ; or
(b)
the maintenance or improvements of the capacity of human beings for sexual pleasure ; or
Page 2/5
----- PAGE 3 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Drugs and Magic Remedies (Objectionable Advertisements) Act, 2018
(c)
the correction of menstrual disorder in women ; or
(d)
the diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment or prevention of any diseases, disorder or condition specified in the Schedule,
or any other disease, disorder or condition (by whatsoever name called) which may be specified in the rules made by
the State Government under this Act.
4.
Prohibition of misleading advertisements relating to drugs.
- Subject to the provisions of this Act, no person shall take any part in the publication of any advertisement relating to a
drug if the advertisement contains any matter which -
(a)
directly or indirectly gives a false impression regarding the true character of the drug ; or
(b)
makes a false claim for the drug ; or
(c)
is otherwise false or misleading in any material particular.
5.
Prohibition of advertisement of magic remedies for treatment of certain diseases and disorders.
- No person carrying on or purporting to carry on the profession of administering magic remedies shall take any part in
the publication of any advertisement referring to any magic remedy which directly or indirectly claims to be efficacious
for any of the purposes specified in section 3.
6.
Prohibition of import into, and export from, the State of certain advertisements.
- No person shall import into, or export from, the State any document containing any advertisement of the nature
referred to in section 3, or section 4, or section 5.
7.
Penalty.
- Whoever contravenes any of the provisions of the Act or the rules made thereunder shall, on conviction, be punishable
-
(a)
in the case of a first conviction, with imprisonment which may extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to
rupees ten thousand, or with both ;
(b)
in the case of a subsequent conviction, with imprisonment which may extend to one year, or with fine which may extend
to rupees twenty-five thousand, or with both.
8.
Powers of entry, search, etc.
(1)
Subject to the provisions of any rules made in this behalf, any Gazetted Officer authorized by the Government by way of
notification in this behalf may, within the local limits of the area for which he/she is so authorized -
(a)
enter and search at all reasonable times, with such assistants, if any, as he/she considers necessary, any place in which
he/she has reason to believe that an offence under the Act has been , or is being, committed ;
(b)
seize any advertisement which he/she has reason to believe contravenes any of the provisions of the Act :
Provided that the, power of seizure under this clause may be exercised in respect of any document, article or thing
which contains any such advertisement, including the contents, if any of such document, article or thing, if the
advertisement cannot be separated by reason of its being embossed or otherwise, from such document, article or thing
without affecting the integrity, utility or saleable value thereof ;
(c)
examine any record, register, document or any other material object found in any place mentioned in clause (a) and
Page 3/5
----- PAGE 4 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Drugs and Magic Remedies (Objectionable Advertisements) Act, 2018
seize the same if he has reason to believe that it may furnish evidence of the commission of an offence punishable
under the Act.
(2)
The provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, Samvat 1989, shall, so far as may be, apply to any search or seizure
under the Act as they apply to any search or seizure made under the authority of a warrant issued under section 98 of
the said Code.
(3)
Where any person seizes anything under clause (b) or clause (c) of sub-section (1) he shall, as soon as may be, inform
a Magistrate and take his orders as to the custody thereof.
9.
Offences by companies.
(1)
If the person contravening any of the provisions of the Act is a company, every person who, at the time the offence was
committed, was in charge of and was responsible to the company for the conduct of the business of the company as
well as the company shall be deemed to be guilty of the contravention and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly :
Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable to any punishment provided in
the Act if he proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge or that he exercised all due diligence to
prevent the commission of such offence.
(2)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) where an offence under the Act has been committed by a
company and it is proved that the offence was committed with the consent or connivance of or is attributable to any
neglect on the part of any director or manager or secretary or other officer of the company such director, manager,
secretary or other officer of the company shall also be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be
proceeded against and punished accordingly.
Explanation : - For the purposes of this section -
(a)
"company" means anybody corporate and includes a firm or other association of individuals, and
(b)
"director" in relation to a firm means a partner in the firm.
10.
Offence to be cognizable.
- Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, Samvat 1989, an offence punishable under this
Act shall be cognizable.
11.
Jurisdiction to try offences.
- No court inferior to that of a Chief Judicial Magistrate shall try any offence punishable under this Act.
12.
Forfeiture.
- Where a person has been convicted by any court for contravening any provision of the Act or any rule made
thereunder, the court may direct that any document (including all copies thereof), article or thing, in respect of which the
contravention is made, including the contents thereof where such contents are seized under clause (b) of sub-section (1)
of section 8, shall be forfeited to the Government.
13.
Officers to be deemed to the public servants.
- Every person authorized under section 8 shall be deemed to be a public servant within the meaning of section 21 of
the Jammu and Kashmir State Ranbir Penal Code, Samvat,1989.
14.
Indemnity..
- No suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall be against any person for anything which is in good faith done or
intended to be done under the Act.
Page 4/5
----- PAGE 5 -----
Jammu and Kashmir Drugs and Magic Remedies (Objectionable Advertisements) Act, 2018
15.
Other laws not affected.
- The provisions of this Act are in addition to, and not in derogation of, the provisions of any other law for the time being
in force.
16.
Savings.
- Nothing in the Act shall apply to -
(a)
any sign board or notice displayed by a registered medical practitioner on his premises indicating that treatment for any
disease, disorder or condition specified in section 3, the Schedule or the rules made under the Act, is undertaken in
those premises ; or
(b)
any treatise or book dealing with any of the matter specified in section 3 from a bona fide scientific or social standpoint ;
or
(c)
any advertisement relating to any drug sent confidentially in the manner prescribed under section 18 only to a registered
medical practitioner ; or
(d)
any advertisement relating to a drug printed or published by the Government ; or
(e)
any advertisement relating to a drug printed or published by any person with the previous sanction of the Government
granted prior to the commencement of the Act :
Provided that the Government may, for reasons to be recorded in writing withdraw the sanction after giving the person
an opportunity of showing cause against such withdrawal.
17.
Power to exempt from application of Act.
- If in the opinion of the Government public interest requires that the advertisement of any specified drug or class of
drugs or any specified class of advertisement relating to drugs should be permitted, it may by notification in the
Government Gazette, direct that the provisions of sections 3, 4, 5 and 6 or any one of such provisions shall not apply or
shall apply subject to such conditions as may be specified in the notification to or in relation to the advertisement of any
such drug or class of drugs or any such class of advertisements relating to drugs.
18.
Power to make rules.
(1)
The Government may, by notification in the Government Gazette, make rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act.
(2)
In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may -
(a)
specify any disease, disorder or condition to which the provisions of section 3 shall apply ;
(b)
prescribe the manner in which advertisements of articles or things referred to in clause (c) of Section 16 may be sent
confidentially.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 5/5