
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Jammu and Kashmir Official Languages Act, 2020
The Jammu and Kashmir Official Languages Act, 2020
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/60624362/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Jammu-Kashmir - Act
The Jammu and Kashmir Official Languages Act, 2020
JAMMU & KASHMIR
India
The Jammu and Kashmir Official Languages Act, 2020
Act 23 of 2020
Published in Gazette of India 23 on 26 September 2020
Not commenced
[This is the version of this document from 26 September 2020.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
An Act to provide for the languages to be used for the official purposes of the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir and
for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.
BE it enacted by Parliament in the Seventy-first Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
1.
Short title, extent and commencement.-
(1)
This Act may be called the Jammu and Kashmir Official Languages Act, 2020.
(2)
It extends to the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir.
(3)
It shall come into force on such date1 as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint:
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Jammu and Kashmir Official Languages Act, 2020
Provided that the Administrator may appoint different dates for different areas in the Union territory.
2.
Definitions.-
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Administrator" means the Lieutenant Governor of the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir appointed by the President
under article 239 of the Constitution;
(b)
"Union territory" means the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir.
3.
Official languages of Union territory.-
With effect from such date as the Administrator may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint in this behalf, the
Kashmiri, Dogri, Urdu, Hindi and English languages shall be the official languages to be used for all or any of the official
purposes of the Union territory:
Provided that the English language may continue to be used, for those administrative and legislative purposes, in the
Union territory for which it was being used before the commencement of this Act:
Provided further that the business in the Legislative Assembly of the Union territory shall be transacted in the official
language or languages of the Union territory.
4.
Promotion and development of regional languages.-
(1)
The Administrator may, for the promotion and development of regional languages of the Union territory, take necessary
steps to strengthen the existing institutional mechanisms such as the Academy of Art, Culture and languages in the
Union territory.
(2)
The institutional mechanisms referred to in sub-section (1) shall make special efforts for the promotion and development
of Gojri, Pahari and Punjabi languages.
1. 29th September, 2020, vide notification No. S.O. 3394(E), dated 29th September, 2020 see Gazette of India,
Extraordinary, Part II, sec. 3 (ii).
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2