
----- PAGE 1 -----
Rules for Identification of Tourist Place or Zone in Jharkhand State
Rules for Identification of Tourist Place or Zone in Jharkhand State
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/80481435/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Jharkhand - Act
Rules for Identification of Tourist Place or Zone in Jharkhand State
JHARKHAND
India
Rules for Identification of Tourist Place or Zone in Jharkhand State
Rule RULES-FOR-IDENTIFICATION-OF-TOURIST-PLACE-OR-ZONE-IN-JHARKHAND-STATE of 1800
Published on 1 January 1800
Commenced on 1 January 1800
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 1800.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Rules for Identification of Tourist Place or Zone in Jharkhand State
Department of Tourism, Art Culture, Sports and Youth Affairs
There are so many places in our state which are much attractive and a lot of peoples come to visit these spots or sights.
The Department has got so many demands to declare such places or zones as "Tourist Places or zones". But till now
this could not be done as there is no rule to declare any place or zone as Tourist place or zone. So there is need to
prepare a rule for the same. Seeing the tourism potentiality and necessity to declare a place as tourist place or zone and
in exercise of the powers conferred upon by the Section 3 of The Jharkhand Tourist Places (Protection and
Maintenance) Act, 2015 an elaborative rule is prepared which is as follows:-
1.
Short title, extent and commencement.
- (i) This Rule shall be called the Rules for Identification of Tourist Place or Zone in Jharkhand State.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Rules for Identification of Tourist Place or Zone in Jharkhand State
(ii)
It shall extend to the whole of the State of Jharkhand.
(iii)
It shall come into force on such date as the State Government may, by notification in the official gazette, declare.
2.
Definition.
- In this Rule unless contrary intention appears from the context :-
(a)
Principal Secretary/Secretary means Principal Secretary/ Secretary of a Department of the State Government, duly
appointed/specified by Government of the State.
(b)
Deputy Commissioner means District Magistrate-cum-Deputy Commissioner of the District, duly appointed/specified by
Government of the State.
(c)
District Tourism Promotion Council means a council notified by the department at district level for doing Tourism related
work/ activity.
(d)
State Tourism Promotion Council means a council notified by the department at state level for doing Tourism related
work/activity.
(e)
Department means Department of Tourism, Art Culture, Sports and Youth Affairs, Government of Jharkhand.
(f)
Tourist means a person or group of persons, including pilgrims visiting the State of Jharkhand, for the purpose of
Tourism.
3.
Process to declare Tourist Place or Zone.
- (i) Any proposal for identification of any place or zone as Tourist Place or Zone received by the department by any
means like public petition, through media etc., shall be forwarded to the concerning Deputy Commissioner of the district.
The Deputy Commissioner may also suo moto process such proposals as he thinks fit under this Rule.
(ii)
All such proposals shall be placed before District Tourism Promotion Council (so called thereafter DTPC) to consider the
potential of the place for its identification as a Tourist Place or Zone.
4.
General Criteria for identification/notification of tourist place.
- General Criteria for identification of tourist place or zone will be as follows ;
(i)
Importance of the site from Tourists/Visitors viewpoint (the main USP of the place)
(ii)
Flow of Visitors - Flow of Tourists/Visitors to that particular place or zone within Jharkhand or from outside Jharkhand
and foreign countries in the last three years.
(iii)
For all historical/pilgrimage centers, the antecedents of the site. (How old is the site and its Cultural significance)
(iv)
Connectivity available like nearest Rail head, Road & water route (distances).
(v)
Possibility to increase the number of visitors if the place is identified and developed (Projection of tourist footfall).
(vi)
Present infrastructure available-proximity to Tourist centre such as units like Hotels, Dharamasalas, Inspection Bhawan,
Guest House, Revenue Rest Shed.
(vii)
Availability of problem-free/encroachment-free admissible Government Land, for proposed site & its future development.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Rules for Identification of Tourist Place or Zone in Jharkhand State
(viii)
Dovetailing of funds already initiated by District administration for the development of the site and possibility of other
sources of funding like CSR, Donation etc.
(ix)
Existence of a Trust/Board/Committee for development of future upkeep of facilities.
(x)
Prospective Areas from where Tourists can be expected to come.
5.
The recommendation of the DTPC shall be forwarded to State Tourism Promotion Council (so called thereafter STPC)
by the Deputy Commissioner of the concerning district with his comments.
6.
The STPC after reviewing on the recommendation of DTPC shall forward the matter with its recommendation to the
Secretary, Tourism, Art Culture, Sports and Youth Affairs, Jharkhand.
7.
The Secretary, Tourism, Art Culture, Sports and Youth Affairs, Jharkhand shall take decision on the recommendation of
STPC and that decision shall be final.
8.
On the decision of the Secretary, Tourism, Art Culture, Sports and Youth Affairs, Jharkhand a place shall be notified as
a Tourist Place or Zone.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3