
----- PAGE 1 -----
Bengal Drainage Rules
Bengal Drainage Rules
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/61803502/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
14
]
State of Jharkhand - Act
Bengal Drainage Rules
JHARKHAND
India
Bengal Drainage Rules
Rule BENGAL-DRAINAGE-RULES of 1894
Published on 11 October 1894
Commenced on 11 October 1894
[This is the version of this document from 11 October 1894.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Bengal Drainage Rules
Rules under the Bengal Drainage Act, 1880
Published under Revenue Department Notification No. 750-T.R., dated the 11th October, 1894 (Calcutta Gazette of
17th, page 1074) to regulate the account of expenditure on drainage scheme sanctioned under Act VI (B.C.) of 1880,
having been approved by the Lieutenant Governor of Bengal in supersession of the rules published in the Calcutta
Gazette of the 9th January, 1884 under notification, dated the 3rd idem.
Rules for the account of Expenditure on Drainage Schemes sanctioned under Act VI (B.C.) of 1880.
1.
In the following rules the word "scheme" means any project or portion of a project sanctioned by the Government under
Section 54 of the Act as a separate scheme.
2.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Bengal Drainage Rules
Expenditure on any scheme for the drainage and improvement of any tract of land under Act VI (B.C.) of 1880 will be
incurred on estimates adopted by the Commissioners appointed under the Act and sanctioned by Government.
3.
The expenditure will be incurred partly by the Public Works Department and partly by the Civil Department. The
expenditure in the Civil Department will be in respect of compensation for lands taken for the purposes of the Act, and
for damage inflicted in carrying out the scheme, salaries of officers, servants, and establishments and cost of surveys
and valuations, other than those made by officers of the Public Works Department, whether antecedent or subsequent
to the preparation of the scheme and plans.
4.
On the vouchers on which such expenditure is incurred it will be distinctly stated for what particular scheme the
payments are made, and no voucher shall be paid at the treasury unless it is passed by the Collector of the district as a
charge to a particular scheme under the Act.
5.
The expenditure will be passed by the Accountant-General to charge of a special advance head to be opened for each
scheme upon his accounts, and an account of all the transactions under each such account (opening and closing with a
balance) will be forwarded by him to the Collector at the end of each quarter for communication to the Commissioners.
The account should be made up in such detail as to show the general nature of the expenditure included in it, such as
"surveys" "compensation for land", etc.
6.
The accounts of expenditure in the Public Works Department will similarly be kept separately for each "scheme", the
charges being in the first place passed to debit of a special advance head to be opened upon the books of the
Examiner.
7.
A quarterly account of the expenditure so charged will be prepared by the Examiner and by him transmitted to the
Accountant General for communication to the Collector and the Commissioners.This accounts will show the general
nature of the expenditure only, such as "establishment", "works", "stores" or any other similar particulars.
8.
At the end of each quarter, the total charge upon the Examiner's books will be transferred to those of the
Accountant-General, which will show, under a separate advance account for each scheme, the total expenditure for
each quarter, both in the Civil and Public Works Departments. The quarterly charge thus transferred should agree with
the total of the quarterly statement of expenditure which is furnished by the Examiner to the Accountant-General with
reference to Rule 9.
9.
At the end of each quarter, until the work is finally completed, the officer in charge of the works will, as required by
Section 27, make a detailed report, not later than the 15th of the following month, the the Drainage Commissioner,
through the Collector, of the progress of the works and the expenditure thereupon, so far as known to him from the date
to which the next preceding report has been brought down. He will submit his statement of expenditure to the Examiner
of Public Works Accounts not later than the 15th of the following month, and the Examiner is to forward his quarterly
statement of expenditure to the Accountant-General not later than the 25th of the following month.
10.
The quarterly account received from the Accountant-General by the Commissioners will be received as the statement of
the accounts of Government in respect of each scheme. They will on receipt be examined by the Commissioners
against the register of sanctioned charges (for Civil Department), and be compared with the quarterly report of the
officer-in-charge of the works (for Public Works Department). The Commissioners will report to the Accountant-General
objections they may have to raise to the accounts, whether in respect of their completeness in point of the detail
required for their purposes, or in respect of their accuracy.
11.
It shall be the duty of the Accountant-General to meet such criticisms, as far as consistent with the facts, by adjustments
which will appear in the succeeding quarterly accounts. But the Accountant-General is the final authority in respect of
the correctness of the account.
12.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Bengal Drainage Rules
A copy of the certificate of completion of work required by Section 28 of the Act will be sent by the officer-in-charge of
the work to the Accountant-General who will thereupon calculate the interest due up to date of completion and add it to
the total cost charged in his books to the advance head for recovery from the persons concerned.
13.
The interest shall be made up by reckoning for interest the total of the net expenditure shown in each quarterly account
from the end of the quarter to which it appertains.
14.
A complete account will now be made up by the Accountant-General in such detail as the Drainage Commissioners may
require, but not in greater detail than that of the quarterly account. This complete account shows the total recoverable
under the Act.
15.
The Accountant-General will at the same time draw up a statement, agreeing with the above, showing the quarterly
totals in the following form:-
Quarterending.
Amount of
Expenditure.-------------------------------------------Civil.
Public.               Total.
Amount of interesttill specified date.
The complete account, together with this statement, will be communicated by the Accountant-General to the Collector
for communication to the Commissioners, and will be subscribed by the Accountant-General as a certificate under
Section 27 of the Act.
16.
When the repairs and maintenance charges of the Drainage Scheme are capitalized under clause 4, Section 48, the
cost of establishment to be retained for realizing the drainage dues after the date of capitalization should also be
capitalized for the number of years required for the collection work, and the present value of the capitalized amount
should be added to the capitalized debt for apportionment, and interest at 5 per cent as prescribed in the law is to be
charged on the total amount from the date or capitalization.
17.
The present value of the capitalized cost of the establishment will be calculated on the annuity payable monthly at 5 per
cent simple interest for the number of years required for the collection work.
(II)
[]
[Rules were issued by Government under Section 58(c) of the Bengal Drainage Act, VI (B.C.) of 1880 under Revenue
Department Notification No. 1908 L.R., dated the 14th May, 1892, published in Calcutta Gazette of 18th, page 525.]
1. If it is found in any case that an apportionment has been made on a wrong person by mistake, the Drainage
Commissioners may substitute in their apportionment report, with the sanction of the Commissioner of the Division, the
name of the person liable under the Act in respect of such apportionment, and thereupon notice of the change shall be
served on such person, and he will be entitled, within one month of service of the notice, to proceed under Section 35
should he desire to contest his ability.
2. The Collector is authorised to use his discretion in remitting interest on the amounts due from persons whose names
are thus substituted and who may have been ignorant of their liability for the period prior to the service of the notice
mentioned in Rule 1.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3