
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Jharkhand Civil Service (Executive Branch) & Jharkhand Junior Civil Services (Recruitm...
The Jharkhand Civil Service (Executive Branch) & Jharkhand Junior
Civil Services (Recruitment) Rules, 2001
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/86123469/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Jharkhand - Act
The Jharkhand Civil Service (Executive Branch) & Jharkhand Junior Civil Services (Recruitment) Rules, 2001
JHARKHAND
India
The Jharkhand Civil Service (Executive Branch) & Jharkhand Junior Civil Services (Recruitment) Rules, 2001
Rule
THE-JHARKHAND-CIVIL-SERVICE-EXECUTIVE-BRANCH-JHARKHAND-JUNIOR-CIVIL-SERVICES-RECRUITMENT-
RULES-2001 of 2001
Published on 17 December 1951
Commenced on 17 December 1951
[This is the version of this document from 17 December 1951.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Jharkhand Civil Service (Executive Branch) & Jharkhand Junior Civil Services (Recruitment) Rules, 2001
Published vide Notification No. 3/IL-50-A-14697, dated the 17th December, 1951
Notification No. III/IL-50-A-14697,dated the 17th December, 1951. - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso
to Article 309 of the Constitution of India, and in supersession of the rules published in the Appointment Department
notification no. 426 A.R., dated the 24th June, 1937; as amended from time to time, the Governor of Bihar is pleased to
make the following rules for the regulation of recruitment to the [Bihar Civil Service]
[This may be read now as 'Jharkhand'.]
Page 1/22
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Jharkhand Civil Service (Executive Branch) & Jharkhand Junior Civil Services (Recruitm...
(Executive Branch) and the [Bihar Junior Civil Services]
[This may be read now as 'Jharkhand'.]
;
Part I
1.
(a) Short title and commencement
- These may be called the Jharkhand Civil Service (Executive Branch) and the Jharkhand Junior Civil Service
(Recruitment) Rules, 2001, and shall take [effect from the date]
[Effective from 15.11.2000 vide Adapting Notification (reproduced above).]
of this notification.
(b)
Definition. - In these rules,unless there is anything repugnant in the subject of context-
(i)
'Commission' means the Jharkhand Public Service Commission;
(ii)
"Government" means the Government of Jharkhand;
(iii)
"Governor" means the Governor of Jharkhand;
(iv)
[   [[Clauses (iv) and (v) subs, and Cl. (vi) added as per Adapting Notification No. 6184,dated 9.11.2002. Prior to
substitution, these clauses read as follows:
(iv)
'Scheduled Castes' means the castes specified in Part II of the Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order, 1950; and
(v)
'Scheduled Tribes' means the tribes specified in Part II of the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order, 1950.]]"vuqlwfpr"
tkfr;ksa ls rkRi;Z gS lafo/kku (vuqlwfpr tkfr;ka) vkns'k] 1950 ds Hkkx&2 (;Fkk fcgkj iquxZBu vf/kfu;e] 2000 dh /kkjk
vuqlwph&5 }kjk la'kksf/kr) esa mfYyf[kr tkfr;ka(
(v)
"vuqlwfpr tutkfr;ksa" ls rkRi;Z gS&lafo/kku vuqlwfpr tutkfr;ka] 1950 ds Hkkx&2 (;Fkk fcgkj iquxZBu vf/kfu;e] 2000 dh
/kkjk&vuqlwph&N% ds }kjk la'kksf/kr) esa mfYyf[kr tkfr;ka(
(vi)
"fiNM+k oxZ" ,oa vR;ar fiNM+k oxZ ls rkRi;Z gS >kj[k.M ljdkj }kjk bl lEcU/k esa fuxZr >kj[k.M inksa ,oa lsokvksa esa
fu;qfDr vf/kfu;e&2001 dh vuqlwph&1 ,oa nks esa mfYyf[kr "vR;Ur fiNM+k" ,oa fiNM+k oxZ dh tkfr;kaA ]
2.
The Jharkhand Civil Service (Executive Branch) and the Jharkhand Junior Civil Service shall be recruited-
(a)
by direct recruitment in accordance with the rules in Part II and/or
(b)
by direct recruitment in accordance with the rules in Part IIA and/or
(c)
by promotion or transfer of officers already in Government service in accordance with the rules in Part III.
3.
The Governor shall decide in each year the number of vacancies in each of the service to be filled in that year by direct
recruitment and/or by promotion, respectively:
Provided that the number of vacancies to be filled by promotion in the Jharkhand Civil Service (Executive Branch) in any
one year shall not, unless the Governor is satisfied that there is not a sufficient number of officers fit for promotion, be
less than half the total number of vacancies to be filled in any such year.
Part II ? Direct Recruitment by Competitive Examination
4.
The Commission shall announce in each year in such manner as they think fit, the number of vacancies in each service
to be filled by direct appointment on the result of a competitive examination and shall invite applications from candidates
Page 2/22
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Jharkhand Civil Service (Executive Branch) & Jharkhand Junior Civil Services (Recruitm...
eligible for appointment under rules 6 and 7. The competitive examination will be conducted by the Commission and will
normally be held between the months of November and February unless otherwise notified.
5.
The Commission may fix a limit in any particular year as to the number of eligible candidates to be admitted to the
examination and if the number of candidates exceeds the limit fixed, the Commission may make a preliminary selection
of candidates to be admitted to the written examination on the basis of their academic records:
Provided that no member of the Scheduled Castes or the Scheduled Tribes who is eligible under the rules shall be
excluded from appearing at the written examination.
6.
[(1) [(a) mEehnokj L=h ;k iq:"k gks ldrk gS vkSj ftl eghus esa ijh{kk gks mldh iwoZorhZ igyh vxLr dks mldh mez 22 o"kZ
ls de ugha gks ijUrq mudh vf/kdre vk;q >kj[k.M ljdkj }kjk fofHkUu Jsf.k;ka ;Fkk lkekU; tkfr] vuqlwfpr tkfr@tutkfr] fiNM+k
oxZ@vR;ar fiNM+k oxZ ,oa efgykvksa ds fy, ;Fkk ladYi la[;k&3122] fnukad 5-9-2001 ds vuqlkj fu/kkZfjr gksxhA
[Rule 6 renumbered as 6(1) by Notification No. III/RI-4017/60-A-14218, dated 30.12.1961.]
]
(b)
[ must hold a degree in Arts, Science, Commerce or Agriculture of any statutory university or possess other
qualifications which the Governor of Jharkhand may declare from time to time to be equivalent to the said degrees.]
[Substituted by Notification No. A-2246 dated 10.2.1968.]
[Note. - Persons who hold posts in Government service in a temporary or officiating capacity or on probation are eligible
to offer themselves for the examination, provided they possess the educational and other qualifications, prescribed in
the rule. Persons holding non-gazetted posts substantively, whether technical or nontechnical, are also eligible to offer
themselves for the examination provided they possess the requisite qualifications. This concession, will not, however,
apply to such technical persons who have been trained at the expense of Government or those who are by contract
bound to serve in a technical post for a specified period.]
[Substituted by No. III/PSC-5018/59-A-9452, dated 9.7.1960.]
Applications from Government servants who are eligible under the rules should be submitted through the authority
empowered to forward the application under the Jharkhand Government Servants Applications for Posts Rules.
(2)
[ A non-gazetted non-technical Government servant or a temporary nontechnical gazetted officer appointed against a
permanent or temporary post under the Government shall be eligible to appear in the examination, if he/she possesses
the requisite qualification, has rendered at least three years of continuous service under the State Government and is
under 35 years of age (under 40 years of age in the case of candidates belonging to the Scheduled Castes and
Scheduled Tribes), on the first day of August, last preceding the month in which the examination is held. Such a
Government servant may submit his/her application in the prescribed form and in the manner prescribed in the rules
through the Head of his/ her Department to the Secretary to the Commission, but he/she shall not be entitled to sit at
more than three Examinations. Such Government servant can, however, send an advance copy of his/her application
direct to the Commission, the Commission may, at the time of interviewing such a candidate, call for his/her service
records. If such a candidate is actually appointed to the Jharkhand Civil Service (Executive Branch) or to the Jharkhand
Junior Civil Service, his/her previous service under the Government shall not be taken into account for the purposes of
determining his/her seniority in the new cadre.]
[Added by Notification No. III/RI-4017/60-A-14218, dated 30.10.1961.]
Explanation. - The term 'technical' has been used in its ordinary etymological sense and in case of any doubt, a
reference should be made to the Government in the Appointment Department for clarification.
Note. - (1) The three chances for which a candidate is eligible under this sub-rule shall be in addition which he/she can
avail of before attaining the age of 25 years (30 years in case of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes).
(2)
The Head of Department concerned shall make a note of forwarding such applications in the Service Book of the
Government servant concerned and may also call upon the Government servant to submit a declaration of the number
of chances which he/she has availed of after attaining the age of 25 years (30 years in case of Scheduled Castes and
Scheduled Tribes).
6A.
Page 3/22
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Jharkhand Civil Service (Executive Branch) & Jharkhand Junior Civil Services (Recruitm...
[
[Added by Notification No. 1 M/1022/55-1568-AR dated 8.8.1955.]
(i)
No male candidate shall be eligible for appointment if he had married before attaining the age of [22 years]. Provided
that this restriction shall not apply to person who had married on or before the 31st July, 1955.
(ii)
After appointment a person shall not marry until he reaches the age of 22 years, except with the permission of
Government, and if he marries before the age of 22 years without such permission, his service may be terminated.]
7.
(a)
A candidate must be of sound health, good physique and active habits and free from any physical defect likely to
interfere with the efficient performance of the duties of a number of the Jharkhand Civil Service (Executive Branch) and
the Jharkhand Junior Civil Service. A candidate who is sound after examination by a Medical Board not to satisfy these
requirements will not be selected for appointment.
(b)
A candidate must satisfy the Public Service Commission that his character is such as to qualify him for employment in
the service.
8.
A candidate shall apply, to be admitted to the examination, in his own handwriting in the prescribed form to the
Secretary to the Public Service Commission, not later than such date as may be notified by the Commission in this
behalf in each year. The prescribed form and a copy of these rules are obtainable from the Secretary to the Public
Service Commission.
9.
With his application a candidate must submit-
(i)
evidence that he holds one of the educational qualifications referred to in rule 6(b);
(ii)
certificate of character and conduct from the heads of all the colleges at which he has studied since he passed the
Matriculation examination;
(iii)
the name of two persons, as reference, who know him in private life and are not his relatives. A candidate must not file
written testimonials of such persons and the reference furnished by him should not include College Professors or
Principals unless they know the candidate at home;
(iv)
a certificate of any Registered Medical practitioner in the prescribed form which may be obtained from the Secretary to
the Commission;
(v)
evidence of age, which should ordinarily be a copy of the Matriculation Certificate or its equivalent;
(vi)
if he claims to be domiciled in the State; a certificate of domicile granted by the District Officer of the district in which he
claims to be domiciled.
Supplementary Instructions
The age of a candidate as recorded in his Matriculation Certificate will be regarded as correct unless there is proof to the
contrary. If a candidate claims that his age is other than as so recorded, he must submit with his application the
evidence on which he bases his claim. In such a case, he will be required to furnish, among other evidence, a
satisfactory explanation of the circumstances in which a wrong age was recorded on his form of application,for
permission to appear at the Matriculation Examination. He will also be required to submit a statement of any attempts
made by him to have the University records amended and of the results of such attempts.
10.
Except under the special orders of Government, preference will be given to a candidate who is either a native of the
State or a subject of the Indian Union domiciled in the State.
Page 4/22
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Jharkhand Civil Service (Executive Branch) & Jharkhand Junior Civil Services (Recruitm...
A-To the Jharkhand Public Service Commission
11.
[
[Substituted by Notification. No. A-3335, dated 25.3.1957.]
A consolidated examination fee of Rs. 13.75 paise in case of candidates belonging to Scheduled Castes and the
Scheduled Tribes when they first submit their application : provided that the Commission may at their discretion, remit
the prescribed fee in cases of bonafide displaced persons from Pakistan who are not in a position to pay the prescribed
fee.]
B-To the Medical Board        Rs.16/-(Rupees sixteen) only in cash at the time of examination by a Medical Board.
Note 1. - The examination fee shall be payable by means of a Treasury Chalan to be obtained only from any treasury in
Jharkhand or crossed Indian Postal Order, payable to the Secretary, Jharkhand Public Service Commission. The fee
paid by means of treasury Chalan should be credited to the Head "XXI-Miscellaneous-Miscellaneous
Departments-Examination Fees-Fees realised by the Jharkhand Public Service Commission." The fee must not be sent
by cheque on banks or in cash.
12.
(1)
No candidate will be admitted to the examination unless he/she holds a certificate of admission from the Commission.
(2)
Candidates must see that they are eligible and must decide definitely to apply before depositing the fees in the treasury.
In order to prevent disappointment, candidates are advised to have themselves examined by a Government medical
officer of and above the rank of a Civil Assistant Surgeon before applying for admission to the examination. No claim for
refund of any of his fees will ordinarily be entertained except to the extent stated in Appendix C nor can they be held in
reserve for any other examination or selection.
13.
Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing provisions of these rules, the Commission may require a candidate
to furnish any such additional proof on any point at to his/her suitability as the Commission may deem necessary.
14.
Subject to the provisions of these rules, the decision of the Commission as to the eligibility or otherwise for the
admission to the examination shall be final.
15.
The examination shall be held according to the syllabus specified in Appendix D to these rules which are liable to
alteration from time to time by the Commission with the prior approval of the State Government.
15A.
[
[Added by Notification No. 3335 dated 25.3.1957.]
If any candidate is found guilty of-
(i)
resorting to any irregular or improper means for obtaining admission to the examination; or
(ii)
impersonating another candidate or being impersonated by any person at the written or viva voce examination; or
(iii)
submitting fabricated document or documents which have been tempered with; or
(iv)
making statements which are incorrect or false, or suppressing material information;
(v)
communicating with any person for the purpose of getting help or for aiding any other candidate; or
(vi)
using any other unfair means in the examination hall; or
(vii)
unruly behaviour in the examination hall or violating any instruction issued by the Commission;
he may be expelled from the examination hall by the Commission by any person authorised by them in this behalf. In
Page 5/22
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Jharkhand Civil Service (Executive Branch) & Jharkhand Junior Civil Services (Recruitm...
such cases, the Commission may also invalidate his answer books or deduct such marks as they consider fit and in
addition to rendering himself liable to criminal prosecution, the candidate may be debarred either permanently or for a
specified period-
(a)
by the Commission from admission to any examination or appearance at any interview held by the Commission for
selection of candidate; and
(b)
by the State Government from employment under Government.]
16.
[
[Substituted by Notification No. 3335 dated 25.3.1957.]
(a)
The Commission shall have discretion to fix the qualifying marks in any or all the subjects at the written examination.
(b)
The minimum qualifying marks for candidates belonging to the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes shall not be
higher than 35 percent for the Jharkhand Civil Services (Executive Branch) and 30 percent for the Jharkhand Junior Civil
Service unless the number of such candidates qualifying at the written test according to the standards applied for other
candidates is considerably in excess of the number of candidates required to fill all the vacancies reserved for the
Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.
Provided that in determining the suitability of a particular candidate for appointment, the total marks obtained at the
written examination and not the marks obtained in any particular subject shall be taken into consideration.
(c)
There shall be no qualifying marks for the viva voce test.]
17.
On the basis of the marks obtained at the written examination, the Commission shall arrange for a viva voce test of the
candidates who have qualified at the written examination according to rule 16(a) or (b):
Provided that in exceptional circumstances and with the prior approval of Government, the Commission may, at their
discretion, admit candidates of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes to the viva voce test even though they may
not have obtained the minimum qualifying marks at the written test prescribed in clause (a) or (b) of rule 16.
18.
The marks obtained at the viva voce test shall be added to the marks obtained at the written examination. The names of
candidates will then be arranged by the Commission in order of merit. From the list of candidates so arranged, the
Commission shall nominate such number of candidates for each service as may have been fixed by the Governor. This
list shall be submitted to the Governor by such date in each year as the Governor may fix.
19.
The Commission shall while submitting their recommendations under rule 18 consider the claims of qualified candidates
belonging to the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes, if the list of nominees submitted under rule 18 does not
contain an adequate number of candidates belonging to the Scheduled Tribes who may be appointed to the vacancies
reserved for them in these services, the Commission shall submit a supplementary list nominating a sufficient number of
such candidates as in their opinion attain the required standards of qualifications and are in all respects suitable for
appointment.
20.
The Commission reserve the right to recommend a successful candidate for any of the service for which he is
considered suitable. Success at the examinations confers no right for appointment unless Government is satisfied after
such enquiry as may be considered necessary, that the candidate is suitable in all respects for appointment to the public
service.
21.
Candidates selected for written or viva voce test will present themselves at their own expense at a time and place of
which they will be informed in due course.
22.
A consolidated result of the examination will be prepared by the Commission and a copy of the marks obtained both at
Page 6/22
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Jharkhand Civil Service (Executive Branch) & Jharkhand Junior Civil Services (Recruitm...
the written and the viva voce tests may be supplied immediately to each candidate, soon after the result are complied
and the list referred to in rule 18 is submitted to the Governor.
Part IIA ? Direct Recruitment of persons with Zamindari Experience.
22A.
The Commission shall announce in such a manner as they think fit the number of vacancies in each service to be filled
by direct recruitment in accordance with the rules in this Part, and shall invite applications from candidates eligible for
appointment under these rules.
22B.
A candidate may either be a male or female and must-
(a)
be under 40 years and over 25 years of age on the 1st day of August last preceding the month in which applications are
invited;
(b)
possess the educational qualifications laid down in rule 6(6) of Part II;
(c)
possess at least six years' experience of managing a zamindari or tenure.
22C.
Rules 7 and 21 in Part II shall apply also to candidates eligible under this Part.
22D.
Applications from candidates eligible under this Part shall be sent so as to reach the Commission not later than such
date as may be prescribed by the Commission in this behalf. Applications shall be sent direct to the Commission, but
each candidate shall furnish to the Collector of his district a copy of the application submitted by him to the Commission.
22E.
(1)
With his application a candidate must remit to the Commission a sum of Rs. 50 (Rupees fifty) only as application fee:
Provided that candidates belonging to the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes shall be required to remit a sum
of Rs. 12.50 Paise [Rupees twelve and fifty Paise] only.
(2)
Out of the fee remitted to the Commission under sub-rule (1) a sum of Rs. 45 (Rupees forty five) only or, in the case of
candidates belonging to the Scheduled Caste and the Scheduled Tribes, a sum of Rs. 11.25 Paise (Rupees eleven and
twenty five Paise) only, shall be refunded by the Commission if after an enquiry by the Collector of his district or by the
Commission, the candidate is found to be eligible to apply under part, but not otherwise.
22F.
The Commission shall hold a written test consisting of one paper of 300 marks on general knowledge, method and
power of expression (either in English or in Hindi) and knowledge of Zamindari affairs. The Commission shall also hold a
viva voce test which shall carry a maximum of 200 marks. Both the written test and the viva voce test shall be designed
to test not the candidates academic knowledge, but his understanding of Zamindari affairs and his aptitude for the kind
of work that an Anchal Adhikari cum Block Development Officer would be required to do.
22G.
The maximum qualifying marks for the written test shall be as follows:
For candidates belonging to theScheduled Castes andthe
Scheduled Tribes.
For othercandidates
Jharkhand Civil Service (Executive Branch)
40 per cent
45 per cent.
Junior Civil Service ...
35 per cent
40 per cent
There shall be no qualifying marks for the viva voce test.
22H.
Page 7/22
----- PAGE 8 -----
The Jharkhand Civil Service (Executive Branch) & Jharkhand Junior Civil Services (Recruitm...
After holding the written test, viva voce test, the Commission shall submit their recommendations to the Governor,
arranging the names of candidates considered suitable by them for each service in order of merit.
Part III ? Promotion of Officers already in Government Service.
23.
(a)
The Chief Secretary to the State Government shall in each year communicate to the Board of Revenue the number of
vacancies in the Jharkhand Civil Service (Executive Branch) and the Jharkhand Junior Civil Service that may be fixed by
the Governor to be filled up from officers already in Government service. The Board of Revenue shall consult the
Commissioners of Divisions. After the Commissioners of Divisions have sent up their recommendations to the Board of
Revenue for promotion to the Jharkhand Civil Service (Executive Branch) and the Jharkhand Junior Civil Service, these
recommendations along with any others which the Board may have received shall be considered by a Selection
Committee consisting of the Member, Board of Revenue, as President and the Additional Member, Board of Revenue, if
there be one, the Food Production and Development Commissioner, if there be one and all the Commissioners of
Divisions as Members. The officers nominated by the Selection Committee shall be arranged in order of preference:
Provided that where more than one officer is nominated for promotion from the same service, their names shall be
arranged in order of their position inter se in the service to which they belong.
(b)
The Board of Revenue shall send all papers relating to the candidates nominated by the Selection Committee direct to
the Commission and shall at the same time submit a list of such candidates to the Governor.
Note. - Persons who hold posts in Government service in a substantive capacity or otherwise are eligible for
appointment to the Junior Civil Service by promotion or transfer in accordance with these Rules.
Supplementary Instructions
(i)
The appointment to the Jharkhand Civil Service (Executive Branch) by promotion of any officer other than a Sub-Deputy
Collector is not ordinarily desirable and no such appointment will be made save for reasons of an exceptional kind, and
on the express recommendation of the Head of the Department in which the officer is serving and of the Board of
Revenue.
A recommendation made by a Head of Department should be addressed to the Board and, unless supported by the
Board, will not be submitted to the Public Sen/ice Commission or to Government. Application for such appointments
received otherwise than through the Board will be returned to the applicants.
(ii)
No Sub-Deputy Collector is eligible for promotion unless he has passed the departmental examinations in law and
language by the higher standard and in accounts [and development]
[Added by Notification. No. 11 l/R 1 -405/60-A-8052 dated 10.6.1960.]
,
(iii)
The nominees of the Board for promotion to the Jharkhand Junior Civil Service need not be graduates, but should be
men of sufficient education to be able to pass the departmental examination and thus qualify themselves for the work of
a Sub Deputy Collector, (such officers will be eligible for promotion only if they are recommended after a personal
interview both by the Board of Revenue and the Public Service Commission).
24.
The Commission shall advice the Governor in respect of each candidate nominated whether his qualifications are
sufficient and whether his record proves him to have the requisite character and suitability for the service to which it is
proposed to appoint him.
25.
The final selection of officer to be promoted shall be made by the Governor after considering the recommendations
made by the Commission under rule 24.
Supplementary Instructions.
Officers finally selected, under rule 25, for promotion to the Jharkhand Civil Service (Executive Branch), will not, if
already in permanent Government service, be required to undergo further medical examination.
General.
Page 8/22
----- PAGE 9 -----
The Jharkhand Civil Service (Executive Branch) & Jharkhand Junior Civil Services (Recruitm...
No recommendations except those invited in the form of application will be taken into consideration. Any attempt on the
part of a candidate to enlist support for his application through persons of influence (or in any other manner) will
disqualify him for appointment.
[Every Sub-Deputy Collector on first appointment on probation will be required to execute a bond in the form prescribed
in Appendix 'E' with two good and sufficient sureties binding himself and his sureties jointly and severally to refund to
Government the amounts received by him as pay and allowances during the period of probation, if during that period or
within five years thereafter he voluntarily resigns or otherwise quits the service on any ground, other than that of health
certified by a duly constituted Medical Board. In case of a promoted officer who holds any substantive post elsewhere,
the amount of refund will be limited to extra amounts drawn by him by virtue of his appointment as a Sub-Deputy
Collector.]
[Inserted by Notification. No. A-106, dated 5.1.1957.]
Appendix A
[xxx]
[Appendix A deleted by Adapting Notification No. 6184 dated. 2.11.2002.]
List of Scheduled Castes in Bihar
1. The castes, races or tribes, or parts of; groups within, castes or tribes, specified below shall be deemed to be
Scheduled Castes in the State of Bihar in the localities specified in relation to them.
2. No person who professes a religion different from Hinduism shall be deemed to be a member of a Scheduled Caste.
3. Any reference to a district or other territorial division of the State shall be construed as reference to the district or other
territorial division as existing on the 26th January, 1950.
1. Throughout the State of Bihar
1. Bauti.
2. Bantar.
3. Bhogta.
4. Chamar.
5. Chaupal.
6. Dhobi.
7. Dome.
8. Dusadh, including Dhari or Dharhi
9. Ghasi.
10. Halalkhor.
11. Hari, including Mehtar.
12. Kanjar.
13. Kurariar.
14. Lalbegi.
15. Mochi.
16. Musahar.
17. Nat.
18. Pan.
19. Pasi.
20. Rajwar.
21. Turi.
II. In Patna and Tirhut Divisions and the Districts of Monghyr, Bhagalpur, Purnea and Palamau-Bhumij.
III. In Patna, Shahabad, Gaya and Palamau Districts-Bhiya.
IV. In Shahabad District-Dabgar.
List of Scheduled Tribes in Bihar
I. Throughout the State of Bihar
1. Asur.
2. Baiga.
3. Bathudi.
4. Bedia.
Page 9/22
----- PAGE 10 -----
The Jharkhand Civil Service (Executive Branch) & Jharkhand Junior Civil Services (Recruitm...
5. Binjhia.
6. Birhor.
7. Birjia.
8. Chero.
10. Gond.
11. Gorait.
12. Ho.
13. Karmali.
14. Kharia.
15. Kharwar.
16. Khond.
17. Kisan.
18. Kora.
19. Korwa.
20. Lohara.
21. Mahdii.
22. Mai Paharia.
23. Munda.
24. Oraon.
25. Parhaiya.
26.
Santal.
27.
Sauria Paharia.
28.
Savar.
2. In the Districts of Ranchi, Singhbhum, Hazaribagh, Santal Parganas and Manbhum-Bhumij.
Note. - Any reference to a district or other territorial division of the State shall be construed as a reference to the district
or other territorial division as existing on the 26th January, 1950.
Appendix B
[xxx]
[Appendix A deleted by Adapting Notification No. 6184 dated. 2.11.2002.]
The term "political sufferer" defined for purposes of recruitment to services and posts under Government [Vide Circular
No. 237-A (124)/50/C-1947, dated the 26th January 1951 and No.237A (124)/50/C-6480, dated the 23rd. May, 1951.]
A "Political sufferer" means up to and including the 31st December, 1951 unless otherwise specified, a person who took
part in the political movement which started on the 9th August, 1942; and
(1)
who was injured as a direct result of his participation in the movement, or as a direct consequence of any action on the
part of Government officials; or
(2)
who was tried and sentenced to imprisonment or fine for any offence connected with the movement; or
(3)
who was detained without trial for three months or more; or
(4)
who was under trial for six months or more, even though the case ended in discharge or acquittal; or
(5)
who was proclaimed as an offender in connection with the movement, but absconded; or
(6)
whose properties were attached even though restored subsequently; or
(7)
whose properties were damaged or destroyed on account of his participation in the movement; or
Page 10/22
----- PAGE 11 -----
The Jharkhand Civil Service (Executive Branch) & Jharkhand Junior Civil Services (Recruitm...
(8)
whose studies were interrupted resulting in loss of one or more academic year on account of such participation; or
(9)
sons and daughters of those who lost their lives or were incapacitated as direct result of their participation in the
movement, as a direct consequence of any action on the part of Government officials during the movement; or
(10)
the son or son-in-law of a Political Sufferer on whom that political Sufferer and his family are dependant for their
maintenance.
1. Special cases which would not be covered by the above definition should be referred to the Secretary to the
Government of Bihar in the Political Department, Patna, for orders with a full statement of the facts. A person who
wishes to claim any of the concession allowed under this order should obtain from the District Magistrate of the district in
which he normally resides a certificate to the effect that he was a Political Sufferer within the meaning of this order.
2. No application for concession under the orders quoted above will be entertained by the Bihar Public Service
Commission unless accompanied by the District Magistrate's certificate.]
Appendix C.
Instructions governing refund of admission and examination fees.
Application fee will not ordinarily be refunded, if however, for any reason a candidate is unable to sit at the examination,
half of the examination fee may be refunded on application to the Secretary to the Commission:
Provided that the Secretary to the Commission may sanction refund of:-
(i)
90 per cent of the fees paid when a candidate after paying the fees does not submit an application;
(ii)
whole of the application and/or examination fee paid, as the case may be, where an alteration is made in the terms of
advertisement or in the conditions of recruitment so that the candidate who would otherwise have been eligible,
becomes ineligible due to such alteration; and
(iii)
whole of the application and/or examination fee paid, as the case may be, if the vacancies advertised are decided by
Government to be abolished or kept in abeyance, before or after the candidates are interviewed.
Appendix D
Jharkhand Public Service Commission, Ranchi.
Syllabus for the combined competitive examination.
(The Syllabus is liable to slight modification)
Questions in all non-language subjects may be answered either in English or in Hindi (Devnagri script)
The Following will be the subject for examination; each subject
will carry the marks shown against it-
Compulsory
Subjects
Marks
1.
General English
... 150
2.
General Knowledge (including current affairs)
... 150
3.
Elementary General Science
... 100
4.
General Hindi
...   50
Optional
Page 11/22
----- PAGE 12 -----
The Jharkhand Civil Service (Executive Branch) & Jharkhand Junior Civil Services (Recruitm...
(Candidates must take three and not more than three subjects,
but not more than two from any one of the groups A, B, C or D).
Group A.
5.
Hindi Language and Literature
... 200
6.
Sanskrit Language and Literature
... 200
7.
Urdu Language and Literature
... 200
8.
Persian Language and Literature
... 200
9.
Arabic Language and Literature
... 200
10.
English Language and Literature
... 200
10A. []
[Added by Notification No. 11 l/R I-4044/60A-1664 dated 22.6.1960.]
Pali Language and Literature
... 200
Group B
11.
Indian History and Culture (including Modern and Medieval
India)
... 200
12.
World History
... 200
13.
Geography
... 200
14.
General Economics (including Public Finance)
... 200
15.
Political Science
... 200
16.
Philosophy (including Ethics and comparative study of
religions)
... 200
17.
Psychology
... 200
18.
Sociology (including Anthropology)
Page 12/22
----- PAGE 13 -----
The Jharkhand Civil Service (Executive Branch) & Jharkhand Junior Civil Services (Recruitm...
... 200
19.
Labour and Social Welfare.
... 200
Group C
20.
Public Administration
... 200
21.
International Law, Jurisprudence and Constitutional Law (with
special reference to the development of the English and Indian
Constitution)
... 200
22.
Hindu Law, Law of Transfer, Evidence Act, Procedure Law  and
Indian Penal Code.
... 200
Group D
23.
Mathematics
... 200
24.
Physics
... 200
25.
Chemistry
... 200
26.
Botany (including Economic Botany)
... 200
27.
Geology
... 200
28.
Zoology
... 200
29.
Accounts
... 200
30.
Statistics
... 200
31.
Agriculture
... 200
1. Every candidate must offer for all services, all subjects mentioned in the Compulsory Group. From the subjects in the
Optional Groups, a candidate must take three subjects, but not more than two from any one group.'
2. General Economics, including Public Finance, or accounts will be compulsory subject for candidates for the
Jharkhand Finance Service (Senior Branch) and the Jharkhand Finance Service (Junior Branch).
3. Sociology or Psychology will be a compulsory subject for the Jharkhand Jail Service.
4. Indian History and Culture will include three groups, each carrying 100 marks, and a candidate can take any two up to
Page 13/22
----- PAGE 14 -----
The Jharkhand Civil Service (Executive Branch) & Jharkhand Junior Civil Services (Recruitm...
200 marks.
5. The paper on 'Accounts' will include three divisions and a candidate can offer any two up to 200 marks.
6. The number of candidates to be admitted to the written examination shall not exceed the limit as may be fixed by the
Commission from time to time. If the number of candidates exceeds, the limit fixed, the Commission shall make a
preliminary selection of candidates to be admitted to the written examination and weed out those who are considered
unsuitable:
Provided that candidates with Honours or Master's degree who have fetched 50 per cent or more of the aggregate
marks in the subjects for the Honours or the Master's degree shall not be excluded from taking the written examination:
Provided further that no member of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, who is eligible under the rules, shall
be excluded from appearing at the written examination.
7. There shall be one paper in each of the Compulsory and Optional subjects. All papers, excepting viva voce, shall be
of three hours duration. There is no timelimit for the viva voce test. The Commission shall summon such candidates for
a viva voce test as to qualify themselves at the written examination. Viva voce examination shall carry a maximum of
200 marks for all service except the Jharkhand Police Service. The maximum viva voce marks for the Jharkhand Police
Service shall be 250. The Commission has the discretion to fix the qualifying marks by notification in advance in any or
all of the subjects for examination.
8. If a candidate's handwriting is not easily legible, a deduction to extent of 5 percent, will be made on this account from
the total marks otherwise accruing to him/her.
9. In all subjects of the examination candidates will be required to show a sound, and not merely superficial knowledge
of the subject. The power of a orderly, effective and exact expression, "with due economy of words will also be expected
of the candidates.
10. Success in examination confers no right for appointment unless Government are satisfied, after such enquiry as may
be considered necessary, that the successful candidate is suitable in all respects for appointment to the Public Service.
11. The Commission reserve the right to recommend a successful candidate for any of the services or posts for which
he/she has offered himself/herself is considered suitable.
Standard and Syllabus of the Examination
Note. - The standard of optional papers will be approximately that of in Honours, Degree Examination of the Ranchi
University which is two years' course.
1. General English. - Questions will be set to test the understanding of and the power to write English. A passage or
passages will usually be set for summary or precis. Questions will include letter writing on given subjects.
2. General Knowledge (including knowledge of current events). - The paper will also include question of Indian History,
Culture and Geography of a nature, which candidates should be able to answer without special study.
3. Elementary General Science. - A paper of question to test such matter of everyday observation and experience in
their scientific aspects as may be expected of an educated person, who has not made a special study of any scientific
subject.
4. General Hindi. - The paper will be of a general character to test a candidate's ability to understand and write Hindi
grammatically and correctly. Candidates will be asked to write an essay or to give a descriptive account of something. A
prose passage will also be set for summary or precise with the object of testing comprehension or expression.
5. Viva Voce. - The candidates will be interviewed by the Commission who will have before them a record of his/her
career. He/she will be asked questions on matters of general interest. The object of the interview is to assess his/her
suitability for the service for which he/she is entered, and in framing their assessment the Commission will attach
particular importance to his/her intelligence and alertness, his/her vigour and strength and his/her potential qualities of
leadership. The examination will be on matters of general interest, not on matters at academic interest.
The marks obtained in viva voce will be added to the marks obtained in written papers and the candidate's place will
depend on the aggregate of both.
6. Hindi Language and Literature. - Candidates will be expected to show a knowledge of the Principal classical authors.
Evidence of first hand reading will be required. The paper will include question on Grammar, Philology, Social and
Political History and literary criticism. Answer should be in Devnagari script.
7. Sanskrit Language and Literature. - (a) Translation from Sanskrit into English and from English into Sanskrit; (b)
Language, Literature and Grammer.
Questions may be set to draw out what a candidate knows rather than to test his/her knowledge. It is not expected that
Page 14/22
----- PAGE 15 -----
The Jharkhand Civil Service (Executive Branch) & Jharkhand Junior Civil Services (Recruitm...
he/she should be an expert or a specialist in that branch of Sanskrit Literature, but he/she should have a grasp of both
the classical language and literature, and a general knowledge of the history of literature-classical period only.
He/she should have a general knowledge of Sanskrit Grammar. This knowledge will be tested not by asking him/her to
quote rules, but by their application to language. He/she will be required to translate an easy passage or passages into
English from classical Sanskrit, to write an essay in Sanskrit, to summarise a given passage in English or Sanskrit and
to translate into either language.
Answers required to be written in Sanskrit must be written in Devanagri script.
7A.
[
[Added by Notification. No. III/RI. 4044/60A-8664 dated 22.6.1960.]
Pali Language and Literature-
(a)
Translation from Pali into English from English into Pali;
(b)
Pali Grammar and Composition;
(c)
Pali Language and Literature.]
8. Urdu Language and Literature. - The candidates are expected to an up-to-date general knowledge of the history of
Urdu language and literature of modern tendencies of its development and be able to answer critical questions,
regarding some knowledge of Prosody, Philology and Khetoric.
9. Persian Language and Literature. - (a) Translate from Persian into English and from English into Persian; (b)
Language, Literature and Grammar.
Questions may be set to draw out what a candidate know rather than to test his/her knowledge. It is not expected that
he/she should be an expert or a specialist in any branch of Persian Literature, but he/she should have a grasp of both
the classical language and literature and a general knowledge of history of Persian Literature-classical period only. He/
she should have a general knowledge of Persian Grammar/including elements of Persian Prosody and Rhetoric. This
knowledge will be tested not by asking him/her to quote rules but by their application to the langauge. He/she will be
required to translate easy passage or passages into English from classical Persian, to write an essay in Persian, to
summarise a given essay in Persian and to translate from English into Persian and from Persian into English.
10. Arabic Language and Literature. - (a) Translation from Arabic into English and from English into Arabic; (b)
Language, Literature and Grammar.
Question may be set to draw out what a candidate knows rather than to test his/her knowledge. It is not expected that
he/she should be an expert or a specialist in any branch of Arabic Literature, but he/she should have a grasp of both the
classical language and literature and a general knowledge of the history of Arabic literature-classical period only.
He/she should have a general knowledge of Arabic Grammar including the elements of Arabic Prosody and Rhetoric.
This knowledge will be tested not by asking him/her to quote rules but by their application to language he/she will be
required to translate an easy passage or passages into English from classical Arabic to write an essay in Arabic,
summaries of a given passage in English or Arabic and to translate into either language.
11. English Language and Literature. - Candidates will be expected to show a general knowledge of the History of
English Literature from the time of Spenser to 1910 with special reference to the works of the following authors.
Shakespeare, Milton, Pope, Johson, Dickens, Wordsworth, Keats, Tennyson, Hardy and Bernard Shaw.
Evidence of first-hand reading will be required. The paper will also include questions on literary criticism.
12. Indian History and Culture. - This Paper will include following groups and a candidate can take any two only :-
Marks
(a) Ancient Indian History and Culture up to 1,000 A.D.
....
100
(b) Mediaeval India-1000-1707 A.D.
....
100
(c) Modern India-1907-1947 A.D.,
Page 15/22
----- PAGE 16 -----
The Jharkhand Civil Service (Executive Branch) & Jharkhand Junior Civil Services (Recruitm...
....
100
13. Ancient Indian History and Culture-The Vedic Age, the Mauryan Age and administration, foreign invasions and their
effects, the age and culture of the Guptas, Huns invasions, Harshavardhana and his times, kingdoms in northern India
during 700 to 1200.
(The subjects may be studied with the help of the following books):-
Roy Chaudhuri-Political History of Ancient India.
Tripathi-Ancient History of India)
History of India, 1000-1707 A.D. -
(1)
The Muslim Conquest of India.
(2)
The Delhi Sultanate, its establishment, growth and disruption.
(3)
Independent kingdoms on disintegration of the Sultanate.
(4)
Civilisation during Turko-Afghan period Government; Social and Economic conditions; growth of an Indo-Muslim Culture
(religion, art and architecture, literature and education)
(5)
Political conditions in India in 1526.
(6)
Beginning of the Mughal Empire (Baber and Humayun).
(7)
Afghan revival under Sher Shah and the Suri.
(8)
From Akbar to Aurangzeb, Mughal territorial expansion, Mughal Policy towards the N.W. Frontier and Central Asia,
Deccan, the Rajputs, Sikhs and other nationalities, the Maratha and Shivaji's work.
(9)
Civilisation during Mughal rule, System of Government Civil and Military, Social and Economic conditions, foreign
travellers' accounts; religious history and religious policy of Mughal Emperors, art and architecture, literature and
education.
History of India, 1707-1947 A.D. -
(1)
European Trading nations in India, Anglo-French conflicts; growth of British political supremacy in Bengal till 1765.
(2)
Expansion of the British dominion in India till middle of the 19th century and foreign policy and relations of the E.I. Co.
(3)
Growth of Indo-British administration from Werren Hastings to Dalhousie; Charter Acts and transformation in the position
of the E.I.Co.
(4)
Education and Social Reform till 1856.
(5)
The Movement of 1857-59.
(6)
Administrative and constitutional development in India.
(7)
Foreign policy and relation to the Government of India.
(8)
History of Indian Nationalism and independence.
(9)
Indian States.
Page 16/22
----- PAGE 17 -----
The Jharkhand Civil Service (Executive Branch) & Jharkhand Junior Civil Services (Recruitm...
(10)
Education, Social and Religious reforms.
(11)
General economic conditions.
(12)
World History. - (General Knowledge) from 1789-1939
(13)
Geography-The Physical Basis of Geography Element of Economic Geography.
Regional and Economic Geography of Asia with a detailed study of India including Pakistan.
Candidates will be required to show intimate knowledge of Indian Geography.
14. General Economics. - Candidates will be expected to have a knowledge of economy theory and should be prepared
both to illustrate theory by facts and to analyse facts by help of theory. Questions may be set on the theory of
development of economic thought and Public Finance. .
16. Political Science. - Candidates will be expected to show a knowledge of political theory and its history as well as of
Political Organisations (including Public Administration and Local Government). Candidates will be expected to have
knowledge also of the origin and development of existing institutions and of the Constitution of India.
17. Philosophy. - Philosophy including Metaphysics, Theory of knowledge, Ethics and philosophy of religion, a general
acquaintance with the main system of Indian philosophy will be expected.
18. Psychology. - Candidates will be expected to show a knowledge of psychological principles and their applications.
Questions will also be set on the structure and functions of group morale-leadership-public opinion and propaganda
tensions, Personal selection and psychology of management and administration.
19. Sociology (including Anthropology)-
(a)
Factors in the Social Life of man;
(b)
Human Nature-Heredity and personality; Group and Personality and Personality Dis-organisations.
(c)
Culture. - The Role of Culture, The contribution of Biological Factors, The influence of Geographical environment and
Culture and personality.
(d)
The major Forms of Social Structure. - Types of Social Groups, in social life, The Primary Group, Crowds and Public,
Caste and Class; the Family, Family problems of to-day and Associations and interests, Prestige and Authority.
(e)
Social Institutions. - Organisation of societies, organizations of economic activities in primitive and peasant communities,
social control and authority systems in states and stateless societies, concept of sanction, relation to law to custom and
morality, Religion, ritual, magic, totem and taboo, interrelationship of Institutions.
(f)
Indian tribal populations and Social Change. - A general idea of the tribal populations of India and the distribution of the
various racial types and of their characteristics institutions. Concept of the society as a process; the patterns of social
change; the biological, technical and cultural factors of social change to be studied with particular reference to the Indian
tribes.
(g)
Social Evolution and Social Progress. - Misleading Trials in Social Evolution; General view of Social Evaluation. The
place of the concept of progress in Sociology and the Interpretation of Social Change from Primitive to civilized society.
(h)
Media of Mass Communication. - Propaganda and Public Opinion.
20. Labour and Social Welfare. - (a) History and principles of Labour and Social Legislation in England and India;
Particular enactments like the Factories Act, 1948, Minimum Wages Act, 1948, Employees' State Insurance Act, 1948;
Industrial Disputes Act, 1947; Trade Unions Act, 1926; and 'Maternity Benefit Act of Bihar, 1947. ['Now Central Act],
(b)
Problems and principles of Social Administration; machinery for social service; problems arising out of poverty, sickness,
Page 17/22
----- PAGE 18 -----
The Jharkhand Civil Service (Executive Branch) & Jharkhand Junior Civil Services (Recruitm...
Incapacity, accident, old age and unemployment with special reference to India; their causes and remedies; Indian
social customs and problems arising from them; Indian standard of living-factors determining-planning-economic and
social; and piecemeal reforms.
21. Public Administration. - The modem State and Public Administration, Relations of Administration with the
Legislature, the Executive and the Judiciary. Problems of organisation of the Administrator, Branch as a whole of
departments and of operating service. Advisory Councils.Tools and administration, Problems of personnel, material and
finance. Administrative Law, Public Relations.
22. International Law, Jurisprudence and Constitutional Law. -
(a)
International Law. - Public International Law-"History of International Law and the Law of Belligerents and Neutrals in
War only."
(b)
Jurisprudence. - Holland's Jurisprudence-Parts I and II.
(c)
Constitutional Law. -
(i)
Constitutional Law of India, 1950 (Parts I to XI)
(ii)
British Constitutional Law; Conventions, Limitations on the Sovereignty of Parliament; Rule of Law : Writs.
23. Hindu Law, Law of Transfer, Evidence Act, Procedure Law and Indian' Penal Code. -
(a)
Hindu Law. - Sources of Hindu Law, General principles of Inheritance, Joint Family, Points of different between the
Mitakshara and Dayalbhag; Hindu Window's Estate and Stridhan.
(b)
Law of Transfer. - Definition of Transfer of property, Gifts to unborn persons (section 13), Rule against perpetuity
(section 14), Nature of vested contingent interest (sections 19 and 21), Election (section 35), Law of List Pendens
(section 52), Different kinds of Mortgages (section 58).
(c)
Evidence Act. - Sections 1 to 32.
(d)
Procedure Law. - Criminal Procedure;
Part 1 ? , Section 4, Parts II, VI omitting Chapters XXIII, XXVII, XXVIII, XXIX, Part IX, Chapters XXXIX and XLIV.
(e)
Civil Procedure-Sections 1 to 151.
(f)
Indian Penal Code. - Chapters I to VII; Chapter VIII omitting sections 143, 147, 160; Chapter IX omitting section 164;
Chapter IXA omitting sections 171t; 171F; Chapter X whole; Chapter XI omitting sections 193 and 216A; Chapter XII
whole; Chapter XIII whole; Chapter XIV omitting section 290; Chapter XV whole; Chapter XVI omitting sections 302,
303, 304, 311, 323, 325, 341, 342, 352, 363, 376; Chapter XVII omitting sections 379, 384, 392, 395; 400, 401, 406,
417, 419, 426, 438, 439, 447, 448, 453, 456, 462, Chapter; XVIII omitting sections 465, 482, 481; Chapter XIX whole;
Chapter XX, whole; Chapter XXI omitting section 500; Chapter XXII omitting section 506; Chapter XXIII whole.
24. Mathematics. - Mathematics will include.
(a)
Algebra. - Deterinants, theory of equations (volume 1 of Burnside) and Panton, simple continued fractions, indeterminate
equations of the first degree, recurring series and inequalities,
(b)
Geometry. - Analytical Geometry of two dimensions. Analytical Geometry of three dimension up to sections of central
conicoid.
(c)
Elementary Analysis and Trigonometry. - Sequences and limits. Definition of an irrational number. Convergence of
series by comparison and ration tests. Absolute convergence Binomial series. Exponential theorem. Series of
Page 18/22
----- PAGE 19 -----
The Jharkhand Civil Service (Executive Branch) & Jharkhand Junior Civil Services (Recruitm...
trigonometric and hyperbolic functions. Loganthmic series. Complex number. De Moriver's theorem summation of series.
Properties of triangles and quadriterals, Elements of Spherical Trigonometry and properties of spherical triangles.
(d)
Colculas and Differential Equations. - Continuous and discontinuous functions. Differentiation and successive
differentiation. Rolles theorem. Mean value theorem. Taylor's theorem. Partial differentiations. Maxima and Minima.
Geometrical applications. Definite and in (definite integrals, application to length of curves, areas, volumes, controids
and moment' of interia. Linear differential equations of the first order. Differential equations of the second order.
(e)
Mechanics. - Dynamics of a particle including motion in a plane. Motion under central forces and planatory orbits. Motion
on a plane curve. Motion of rigid body about an axis. Compound pendulum.
(f)
Statics. - Equilibrium under co-planer forces. Friction Equilibrium on a plane curve. Principle of virtual work, stability.
Equilibrium of inelastic strings. Hook's law. Elementary vector algebra and its application to mechanical problems.
(g)
Hydrostatics. - Fluid pressure, thrusts on surfaces, centre of pressure, equilibrium and stability of floating bodies.
Rotating fluids. Gas Law, Atmospheric pressure.
(h)
Astronomy-The celestial sphere. Transit instrument, Equation or time, planatory motion. Refraction. Parallax-Precession
and mutation. Lunar and Solar eclipses.
Descriptive Astronomy. Planets stars. Double stars. Magnitude and spectral glasses. Temperature luminousity Law and
diameter.Clusters and neblux.
25. Physics. - The paper will include question on General physics, Heats, Light, Sound, Electrical and Magnetism.
26. Chemistry. - The paper will include questions on General (including Physical) Chemistry, Inorganic Chemistry and
Organic Chemistry.
27. Botony. - An advanced knowledge of the main groups of the vegetable kingdom, (prescribed for the Hons, course)
both living and existing, viz, Algae, Fungi, Bryophyta, Partrodophyta, Cymnesperms and Angiosperms with special
reference to the Indian flora.
Anatomy. - Origin and development of plant issues and their distribution from ecological and Physiological point of view.
Ecology. - Principal types of vegetation of Bihar, their distributions and importance of vegetational study (of Hons
standard).
Physiology. - A knowledge of the important physiological processes of the plant body (of the Hons, standard).
Plant Pathology. - A knowledge of the important disease of plants caused by Fungi together with the methods of control.
Economic Botany. - A study of the important disease of plants (included in the Hons, course) of India and their
distribution.
General Biology. - A study knowledge of the fundamentals in variation, heredity evolution, cyrology, genetics and
principles of plant breeding.
28. Geology. - Physiography and Structural Geology, Mineralogy, economic Geology and Petrology. - Interior of the
earth and its constitution, Isostasy; continental Drift. Earth Movements; Origin of Mountains, Fluvial Cycle, Geological
work of snow and ice, Past Claciation, Marine'deposits, Coral ref; types of fold and faults.
A detailed study of the important rockforming minerals and minerals of economic importance, Ore genesis, important
economic mineral deposit of India. Rocks; Modes of occurrence of igenous rocks. Principles controlling the formation of
igenous rocks. Magmatic differentiation. Structures and Texures. Classification of igneous rocks. Description of the more
common igneous rocks. Characters of different types of sedimentary rocks, metamorphism and, the origin of different
types of metamorphic rocks. Classification of metamorphic rock. Igneous and metamorphic rock. Classification of
metamorphic rocks. Igneous and metamorphic rock of India.
Stratigraphy and Palarontogy. - Detailed morphology of the important groups of invertebrates and study of important
general under each group. Distribution in time of the Mamals. Fossils and organic evolution with special reference to the
Mammals. Petrological and palarontogical features of the main geological subdivisions of India. Correlation of the
different formations of India with each other and with the standard stratigraphical scale.
29.
Zoology. - (1) Animal cell (including its cytoplasmic inclusions and their functions). Reproduction (Sexual, a sexual and
Page 19/22
----- PAGE 20 -----
The Jharkhand Civil Service (Executive Branch) & Jharkhand Junior Civil Services (Recruitm...
parthenogenesis). Histology of Frog and Rabbit.
(2)
Theories of evolution, Heredity, Cell in inheritance, History of Zoology and Eugenics.
(3)
Economic Zoology with special reference to Pisciculture, sericulture and lac culture.
(4)
Geographical and Geological distribution of animals.
(5)
The structure, habit, life-history and classification of the following groups as illustrated by the types indicated against
each;
Protozoa : Amoeba, Entamoeba.Trypanosome, Paramececium, Monoeystic and Melarial parasite.
Poriefera : Different kinds of canal systems, skeleton development.
Coelenterate : Hydra, Obelia, Aurelia and Coral formation.
Platyhelminathes : Liverfluke and taenia.
Nemathelminthes : Ascaris and Filaria.
Annelida : pheritima, Nereis and Leech.
Echinodermata: Starfish.
Artherepoda : Prawn, Cockroach, Mouth parts of Mosquito, Mollusefly and Sacculinia.
Mollusca : Mussel and pila.
Polyzos : Buguta.
Hemichordata : Baganogiossus.
Urochordata : Herdamnia, Surpha and Doliolum.
Cepha ochordata : Branchiostoma (Amphioxus)
Cyclostem ta : Petromyzon (external characters only)
Picies : Dogfish, A common bony fish and Dipnoi.
Ampaibia : Frog
Reptilta : Varnus and Snake (life-history excluded).
Aves: Pigeon.
Mammedlia : Echidna, Kangaroo, Guinea-pig or Rabbit, Placentation.
30.
Accounts will include the following groups :
A. Advanced Accounting, Auditing, Cost Accounting and Income-tax-100 Marks.
(a)
Advanced Accounting. - The principles of Accountancy and their practical applications to all types of training,
commercial, industrial, banking, insurance and investment undertakings. Accounts relating to the floatation,
amalgamation, absorption, reconstruction, reorganisation and liquidation of companies, statutory and public utility
undertakings; the accounts of educational, scientific, charitable and religious endowments, trust and institutions;
provident and superannuation funds; branch accounts, foreign exchange, etc.
(b)
Cost Accounts. - The main principles of cost accounting. The treatment and control of stocks, material, labour, direct and
indirect expenses and cost. Contract cost accounts, process cost accounts, single costing, standard costing, multiple
costing and operation costing; Double Entry Cost Accounting; reconciliation of cost accounts with financial accounts.
Note. - Candidates will be expected to be acquainted with the basic principles; specialised knowledge of cost accounting
will not be required.
Note. - The accounts of Executors and Trustees of the Estates of Deceased Person, Liquidators, Receivers, Officers
Assignee, etc. will not be included.
(c)
Auditing. - The principles and procedure of Auditing and their practical application to all types of trading, commercial,
industrial, banking, insurance, public utility and investment undertaking, Rights and Duties of Auditors; Internal Audit,
Investigations of actual and suspected frauds. Auditor's report, certificates and opinions; Limitations of Audit.
(d)
Page 20/22
----- PAGE 21 -----
The Jharkhand Civil Service (Executive Branch) & Jharkhand Junior Civil Services (Recruitm...
Income-tax. - The main Legal and Accountancy principles governing the computation of total work income for purposes
of income-tax.
Note. - Specialised knowledge of income-tax Law will not be expected. Candidates will be required to have a sound
grasp of the provisions of section 10 of the Income-tax Act and a working knowledge only to sections 3 to 4-BV, 6 to
15-A, 16(1) (a) & (b), 16(2), 17,18-A, 22, 23 (1) to
(3)
, 26-A, 42,49-Band 55 to 58 and the connected rules of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922. Also the Indian Finance Acts of
1946 and subsequent years.
B. Rural Economics with special reference to 'Bihar and Co-operative in India; Partnership account; Receipt and
payment account and Income tax and expenditure account, Joint Stock Company accounts including amalgamation,
absorption and reconstruction. Banking Accounts-100 Marks.
C. Indian Currency and Commercial Banking operations; Partnership account; Receipt and payment account and
income and expenditure account. Joint Stock Company accounts including amalgamation, absorption and
reconstruction. Banking Account- 100 Marks.
A candidate can take any two from the above three groups.
31.
Statistics. - Elementary ideas. If probability including Baye's hypothesis, expected values, Lagrang's and advancing
interpolation formulate, derivation of normal curve and some of its fundamental properties. Elementary Theory of Least
Square.
Descriptive statistics. - Tabulation, classification, graphical representation, average (including index numbers in some
details), dispersion, symmetry, Kurtesis, elementary theory of Attributes and Association, distribution, function of mean
and variance in a normal population, elementary properties of some standard distribution, e.g. Bionomial, ractangular
Conchy's Pearsonion, Derivations of X2 distribution from independent normal variates. Properties of Bivariate normal
distribution. Theory of relation co-efficient, rank and intra-class correlation coefficients, with two and three variables only,
Concepts of sampling in statistics (including random, purposive and stratified), elementary tests hypothesis involving the
use of I, F, X distribution without formal proofs, elementary idea of analysis of variance and covariance (one way and
two way classifications).
32.
Agriculture. -
(1)
introduction. - Its brief history, scops and importance; relation to other industries and sciences; some agricultural
statistics of 'Bihar, such as classification of areas under different crops, irrigated areas, and crops, distribution of
populations, etc.
(2)
Soils. - Soils and sub-soils; texture and structure of soil. Soil moisture; soil air; soil temperatures; soil micro-organisms;
physical properties of soil.
(3)
Tillage and Farm Implements. - Definition, importance, objects and kinds of tillage, essential differences in tillage in
different types of soils, preparation of seed bed: control of weeds.
A study of the indigenous improved and iniroduced implements in 'Bihar in respect of assemblage, adjustment, working
cost, care and economics of operation.
(4)
Climatoloy. - Definition and scope; factors and elements of climate; Common meteological instruments and their uses;
Weather forecast; relation of climate to the distribution of crops and systems of farming.
(5)
Irrigation Drainage and Land Development. - Importance of irrigation; Water requirements of hydraulic terminology;
detailed study of different sources of irrigation.
Dry farming, its scope and relation to rainfall; dry farm crops and tillage methods.
Importance of drainage; kinds of drainage; reclamation of acid alkali and kans infested lands or lands or otherwise lying
waste; soil conservations pasture management.
(6)
Page 21/22
----- PAGE 22 -----
The Jharkhand Civil Service (Executive Branch) & Jharkhand Junior Civil Services (Recruitm...
Manuring. - Fertility of land; principles underlying manuring of crops; detailed study of F.Y.M., compost, green mixturing,
oil-cakes and various inorganic fertilizers.
(7)
Principles of Crops Production. - Crop rotations; crop mixtures; seed selection; multiplication and distribution of pure
seeds; classification of crops and detailed study of the following crops:-
Paddy, Maize, Wheat, Barley, Linseeds, Mustard, Gram, Arhar, Jute, Cotton, Sugarcane, Tobacco, Jowar, Berseem,
Soyabean, Turmeric, Onions, Chillies, Potatoes, Sweet potatoes.
(8)
Farm Management. - Different types of farming; lay-out of different types of farms; successful management of farms and
maintaining farm accounts.
(9)
Extension service for agricultural and rural development.
[Appendix 'E']
[Inserted by Notification No. A/106, dated 5.1.1957.]
Form of Bond to be Executed by Sub-Deputy Collectors on Probation
Know all men by these present that we (1)..............................son of.........................resident of.......................  ...
(2)....................... son of..........................resident of..........................and (3)........................son of..........................,
resident of................... are jointly and severally held and the firmly bound unto the Governor of Jharkhand in the penal
sum of Rs. 4,000/- or a sum equal to the amount received by the above bounden (1)   as pay and allowances during the
period of his probation as a Sub-Deputy Collector whichever is less to be paid to the Governor of Jharkhand, successor
or assigns or his or their certain attorney or attorneys for which payment well and truly to be made we bind ourselves,
our heirs, executors, administrators and representatives jointly and every two of us bind ourselves, our heirs, executors,
administrators and representatives jointly and each of binds himself, his heirs, executors, administrators and
representatives severally firmly by these presents sealed with our seals dated this............................day
of...........................20 .
Whereas the above bounded (name of (1) has been appointed by the Government of Jharkhand to be a Sub-Deputy
Collector on probation.
Now, the condition of the above written bond is such that if in the event of the above bounded (name of (1) voluntarily
resigning the service during the period of probation or within five years thereafter on any ground other than that of ill
health certified by a duly constituted medical board he shall forthwith pay to the Governor of Jharkhand Rs. 4,000/- or a
sum equal to the amount received by him as pay and allowances during the period of probation whichever is less.
Note. - In case of a probationer who holds substantive appointment under Government, pay and allowances mean extra
amounts drawn as probationer.
Then the above written bond shall be void and of no effect. Otherwise it shall be and remain in full force and virtue.
Signed, sealed and delivered by the above bounded in the presence of-
Signed, sealed and delivered by the above bounded in the presence of-
Signed, sealed and delivered by the above bounded in the presence of-
(1)
Name of Principal      (2) Name of surety       (3) Name of surety.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 22/22