
----- PAGE 1 -----
Bihar Deputy Ministers' Salaries and Allowances Act, 1952
Bihar Deputy Ministers' Salaries and Allowances Act, 1952
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/102300470/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
1
]
State of Jharkhand - Act
Bihar Deputy Ministers' Salaries and Allowances Act, 1952
JHARKHAND
India
Bihar Deputy Ministers' Salaries and Allowances Act, 1952
Act 17 of 1952
Published on 30 August 1952
Commenced on 30 August 1952
[This is the version of this document from 30 August 1952.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Bihar Deputy Ministers' Salaries and Allowances Act, 1952
Act
17 of 1952
Published in the Bihar Gazette (Extraordinary), dated 30th August, 1952.
An Act to provide for the Salaries and Allowances of the Deputy Ministers of the State of Bihar.
Whereas it is expedient to provide for the Salaries and Allowances of the Deputy Ministers of the State of Bihar;
It. is hereby enacted as follows:-
1.
Short title.
- This Act may be called the Bihar Deputy Minister's Salaries and Allowances Act, 1952.
2.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Bihar Deputy Ministers' Salaries and Allowances Act, 1952
Definition.
- In this Act, the expression "Deputy Minister" means a person appointed as such by the Governor.
3.
Salaries of Deputy Minister.
- There shall be paid to each Deputy Minister a salary at the rate [of eight hundred rupees per month.]
[Now see New Pay Scale.]
4.
Residence of Deputy Minister.
(1)
Each Deputy Minister shall be entitled without payment of rent, to the use of:-
(a)
a furnished residence in Patna throughout his term of office and for a period of fifteen days immediately thereafter, or in
lieu of such residence a house allowance at the rate of [one hundred rupees per month;]
[Now see New Pay Scale.]
and
(b)
a furnished residence at such other place as the State Government may from time to time for the purposes of this Act
declare to be the headquarters of Government and for such period as may be specified in such declaration or in lieu of
such residence a house allowance at the rate of [one hundred rupees per month.]
[Now see New Pay Scale.]
(2)
No charge shall fall on the Deputy Minister personally in respect of the maintenance of any residence provided under
this section.
(3)
[ The expenditure on furnishing and maintenance of the residence provided under this section shall be on such scale
and subject to such monetary limits as the State Government may, by rules, determine.]
[Inserted by Bihar Act II of 1965.]
Explanation. - For the purposes of this section, the expression residence, includes the staff quarters and other buildings
appurtenant thereto and the garden thereof."
5.
Travelling and daily allowances of Deputy Ministers.
- A Deputy Minister shall be entitled to travelling and daily allowances while touring on public business at such rates and
upon such conditions as the State Government may, by rules determine.
6.
[ Conveyance for Deputy Ministers.
[Substituted by Bihar Act 2 of 1965.]
(1)
The State Government may, from time to time, purchase and provide motor cars for the use of Deputy Ministers on such
terms as the State Government may, by rules determine:
[Provided that if any Deputy Minister does not keep a motor car purchased by the State Government he may, in lieu
thereof, be paid such amount of conveyance allowance and, by way of repayable advance for the purchase of a motor
car such amount of money on such terms as the State Government may, by rules, determine so that he may be able to
discharge conveniently and efficiently the duties of his office:]
Provided further that the amount of allowance shall not exceed [two hundred and fifty rupees per month.]
[Now see New Rate of Allowance.]
(2)
A Deputy Minister shall be entitled to the use of a staff car on payment of charges at such concessional rates and on
such other conditions as the State Government may, from time to time, by rules, determine.
Explanation. - For the purpose of this sub-section the expression a 'staff car' means any motor vehicle owned and
maintained by the State Government for official purposes.]
7.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Bihar Deputy Ministers' Salaries and Allowances Act, 1952
[ Medical Treatment etc. to Deputy Ministers.
[Inserted by Bihar Act 19 of 1953.]
- A Deputy Minister and members of his family shall be entitled to such facilities and concession in respect of free
medical attendance and supply of medicines and of accommodation in hospital as the State Government may, by rules,
determine].
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3