
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Bihar Electricity (Temporary Control) Act, 1959
The Bihar Electricity (Temporary Control) Act, 1959
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/28382803/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Jharkhand - Act
The Bihar Electricity (Temporary Control) Act, 1959
JHARKHAND
India
The Bihar Electricity (Temporary Control) Act, 1959
Act 23 of 1959
Published on 10 February 1959
Commenced on 10 February 1959
[This is the version of this document from 10 February 1959.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Bihar Electricity (Temporary Control) Act, 1959
(Bihar Act
23 of 1959
)
For Statement of Objects and Reasons, see the Bihar Gazette (extraordinary) dated 10.2.1959.
[President's assent was first published in the Bihar Gazette, Extraordinary of the 19th August, 1958.]
An Act to restrict temporarily the distribution of energy to consumers Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of
Bihar in the Tenth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
1.
Short title, extent and commencement.
(1)
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Bihar Electricity (Temporary Control) Act, 1959
This Act may be called the Bihar Electricity (Temporary Control) Act, 1959.
(2)
It extends to the whole of the State of [Bihar]
[This may now be read as 'Jharkhand'.]
.
(3)
It shall remain in force for a period of [five years]
[Substituted by Bihar Act 19 of 1962 for 'three years'.]
from the date of its commencement.
2.
Power to control supply of electrical energy.
(1)
If any officer not below the rank of an Assistant Electrical Engineer, authorised in this behalf by the State Government by
notification in the Official Gazette, is of the opinion that it is necessary or expedient so to do, for regulating or prohibiting
the supply, distribution, consumption or use of electrical energy in a specified local area, he may, for reasons to be
recorded, by general or special order, provide for regulating or prohibiting the supply, distribution, consumption or use
thereof.
(2)
(i)
Every order under sub-section (1) addressed to any person may be served by registered post or left,-
(a)
where the Central Government or the State Government or a Railway authority is the addressee, at the office of such
officer as the Central Government or the State Government or the Railway authority, as the case may be, may designate
in this behalf;
(b)
where a local authority is the addressee, at the office of such authority;
(c)
where any other person is the addressee, at the usual, or last known place of abode or business of the person.
(ii)
Every order under sub-section (1) addressed to the owner or occupier of any premises shall be deemed to be properly
addressed if addressed by the premises (naming the premises), and may be served by delivering it or a true copy
thereof, to some person on the premises, or, if there is no person on the premises to whom the same can with
reasonable diligence be delivered, by affixing it on some conspicuous part of the premises.
(3)
Any person aggrieved by an order made under sub-section (1) may, within thirty days of the service in accordance with
the provisions of sub-section (2) of the order, or a true copy thereof, appeal, to the State Government.
3.
Penalty for contravention of order.
(1)
Any person who contravenes any order made under Section 2 shall be punishable with fine which may extend to one
thousand rupees and in case of continuing offence, with a daily fine which may extend to one hundred rupees.
(2)
(i)
No Court shall take cognizance of any offence punishable under this Act except with the previous sanction of the State
Government.
(ii)
No Court inferior to that of a Magistrate of the first class shall try any offence punishable under this Act.
4.
Effect to orders inconsistent with other enactments.
- Any order made under Section 2 shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any
enactment other than this Act or any instrument having effect by virtue of any enactment other than this Act.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Bihar Electricity (Temporary Control) Act, 1959
5.
Presumption as to orders.
- Where an order purports to have been made and signed by an authority in exercise of any power conferred by or under
this Act, a Court shall presume that such order was so made by that authority within the meaning of the Indian Evidence
Act, 1872.
6.
Protection of action taken under the Act.
(1)
No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against any person for anything which is in good faith done or
intended to be done in pursuance of any order made under Section 2.
(2)
No suit or other legal proceeding shall lie against the State Government for any damage caused or likely to be caused
by anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of any order made under Section 2.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3