
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Bihar Epidemic Diseases Rules, 1965
The Bihar Epidemic Diseases Rules, 1965
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/97086429/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Jharkhand - Act
The Bihar Epidemic Diseases Rules, 1965
JHARKHAND
India
The Bihar Epidemic Diseases Rules, 1965
Rule THE-BIHAR-EPIDEMIC-DISEASES-RULES-1965 of 1965
Published on 31 July 1965
Commenced on 31 July 1965
[This is the version of this document from 31 July 1965.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Bihar Epidemic Diseases Rules, 1965
Published vide Notification No. 10/R1-1-5/65-2888 (10)-H, dated 31st July, 1965, Published in the Bihar Gazette (Extra
Ordinary), dated 17 August, 1965
No. X/R1-1-5/65-2888 (10)-H, dated 31st July, 1965, Published in the Bihar Gazette (Extra Ordinary), dated 17 August,
1965. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 2-F of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 (III of 1897) as amended
by the Epidemic Diseases (Bihar Amendment) Act, 1960 (Bihar Act V of 1961) and as in force in the State of Bihar, the
Governor of Bihar is pleased to make the following Rules the same having been previously published as required by
subsection (1) of the said Section namely:-
1.
The Bihar Epidemic Diseases Rules, 1965-
(i)
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Bihar Epidemic Diseases Rules, 1965
These rules may be called the Bihar Epidemic Diseases Rules, 1965.
(ii)
They shall come into force at once.
2.
In these rules, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context:-
(a)
"Act" means the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 (III of 1897);
(b)
"Section" means a Section of the Act; and
(c)
all words and expressions used in these rules and not defined herein have the same meanings as are respectively
assigned to them in the Act.
3.
After an order in writing requisitioning a vehicle is served by the requisitioning authority under Section 2B on the owner
of such vehicle, or in the absence of the owner, on any other person who has for the time being the vehicle under his
control, the owner or that person shall not remove or allow the vehicle or any part thereof to be removed or in any way
damage the vehicle or permit it to be damaged so as to make the vehicle unserviceable, or less serviceable.
4.
If the owner of a vehicle, in anticipation of his vehicle being requisitioned under Section 2B intentionally removes the
vehicle from the area visited by or threatened with, an outbreak of any dangerous epidemic disease, the requisitioning
authority shall cause a notice in writing to be served on the owner of such vehicle to deliver possession of the vehicle to
the requisitioning authority or to such other person and within such period as may be specified in the notice.
5.
After the release of the vehicle by the requisitioning authority, the owner or his authorised agent shall take delivery of the
vehicle on or within such date and at such place as has been specified under sub-section (2) of Section 2D and then the
owner or his authorised agent shall be entitled to move the State Government through the requisitioning authority for the
amount of compensation to be fixed by agreement for the period for which the vehicle was requisitioned.
6.
The following procedure shall be followed by the arbitrator appointed under Section 2C:-
(i)
The arbitrator shall fix a date of hearing for which reasonable notice shall be given to the District Magistrate and the
owner of the vehicle, take all such evidence as may be produced by them in support of their respective contentions and
give them a reasonable opportunity of being heard before giving his award;
(ii)
If the amount of compensation offered by the State Government is held by the arbitrator to be appropriate, the entire
cost of the proceedings before the arbitrator shall be borne by the person to be compensated and vice-versa;
(iii)
If the amount of compensation determined by the arbitrator is different from what is stated by the State Government and
the person to be compensated, the cost of the proceedings shall be divided equally, between the State Government and
such person; and
(iv)
The cost of proceedings under clause (ii) or (iii) which is to be borne by the person to be compensated shall be ordered
to be deducted from the amount of compensation payable to such person.
7.
An expert or the assessor called upon to assist the arbitrator appointed under Section 2C shall be entitled to get a fee of
one hundred rupees in each case, besides the usual travelling allowances to which he is entitled under the Bihar
Travelling Allowance Rules.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2