
----- PAGE 1 -----
Jharkhand Electricity Regulatory Commission-Conduct of Business Regulations, 2003
Jharkhand Electricity Regulatory Commission-Conduct of Business
Regulations, 2003
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/121585319/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Jharkhand - Act
Jharkhand Electricity Regulatory Commission-Conduct of Business Regulations, 2003
JHARKHAND
India
Jharkhand Electricity Regulatory Commission-Conduct of Business Regulations, 2003
Rule JHARKHAND-ELECTRICITY-REGULATORY-COMMISSION-CONDUCT-OF-BUSINESS-REGULATIONS-2003 of
2003
Published on 9 July 2003
Commenced on 9 July 2003
[This is the version of this document from 9 July 2003.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Jharkhand Electricity Regulatory Commission-Conduct of Business Regulations, 2003
Published vide Notification No. 1/CBR/JSERC, dated 9th July, 2003, Jharkhand Gazette (extra-ordinary) dated
10.7.2003
Notification No. 1/CBR/JSERC, dated 9th July, 2003. - In exercise of the powers conferred on it by Section 181 of
Electricity Act, 2003 and all powers enabling It In that behalf, the Jharkhand Electricity Regulatory Commission hereby
make the following Regulations.
Chapter I
General
Page 1/17
----- PAGE 2 -----
Jharkhand Electricity Regulatory Commission-Conduct of Business Regulations, 2003
1.
Short title, Commencement and object.
(1)
These Regulations may be called the "Jharkhand Electricity Regulatory Commission-Conduct of Business Regulations,
2003."
(2)
The object of these Regulations are:
(a)
to establish procedures for conducting proceeding by the Commission in discharge of its functions and
(b)
to establish procedures for compliance of the orders/directions of the Commission by the respective stakeholders.
(3)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Jharkhand Government Gazette.
(4)
They extend to the entire State of Jharkhand.
2.
Definition.
(1)
In these Regulations, unless the context otherwise requires;
(a)
'Act' means the Electricity Act, 2003.
(b)
'Commission' means the Jharkhand Electricity Regulatory Commission.
(c)
'Chairman' means the Chairman of the Jharkhand Electricity Regulatory Commission.
(d)
'Member' means Member of the Jharkhand Electricity Regulatory Commission.
(e)
'Secretary' means the secretary of the Jharkhand Electricity Regulatory Commission.
(f)
'Officer' means an officer of the Commission.
(g)
'Petition' means and includes all petitions, applications, complaints, appeals, replies, rejoinders, supplemental pleadings,
other papers and documents filed before the Commission.
(h)
'Proceedings' shall mean and include proceedings of all nature such as hearings, meetings, discussions, deliberations,
enquiries, Investigations, consultations etc., that the Commission may hold in the discharge of its functions under the
Act.
(i)
'Specified number of copies' means five copies or number of copies as may be prescribed by the Commission.
(j)
'Fee' means a fee payable to the Commission for the services rendered, which will be fixed by the Commission for
different types of services.
(k)
'Designated Officer' means an officer of the Commission designated for the specific purpose.
(l)
'Board' means Jharkhand State Electricity Board or any of its successor entities.
(2)
Words or expressions occurring in these Regulations arid not defined herein defined in the Electricity Act, 2003 shall
bear the same meanings respectively assigned to them in the Act,
(3)
Page 2/17
----- PAGE 3 -----
Jharkhand Electricity Regulatory Commission-Conduct of Business Regulations, 2003
The original Regulations will be in English and they will be translated in Hindi. In case of difference in interpretation of
Regulations in Hindi version, the original Regulation in English version will stand.
3.
Commission's offices, office hours and sittings.
(1)
The place of the offices of the Commission may from time to time be specified by the Commission, by an order made in
that behalf.
(2)
Unless otherwise directed, the headquarters and other offices of the Commission shall be open daily except on second
Saturdays, Sundays and holidays notified by the Government of Jharkhand. The headquarters and other offices of the
Commission shall be open at such times as the Commission may direct from time to time.
(3)
When the last day for doing of any act falls on a day on which the office of the Commission is closed and by reason
thereof the act cannot be done on that day, it may be done on the next day on which the office is open.
(4)
The Commission may hold sittings for transacting its business at the headquarters or at any other place on days and
time to be specified by the Commission.
4.
Language of the Commission.
(1)
The proceedings of the Commission shall be conducted in English or Hindi if permitted by the Commission.
(2)
The petitions, documents of other matters contained in any language other than English or Hindi shall be accepted by
the Commission only if the same is accompanied by a translation thereof in English/Hindi.
(3)
Any translation which is agreed to by the parties to the proceedings or which any of the parties may furnish with a
certificate of the person who had translated the same to English, may be accepted by the Commission as a true
translation. The Commission, in appropriate cases may insist for translation in English of the said document by an
Officer or person designated by the Commission for the purpose.
5.
Commission to have a seal of its own.
(1)
The Commission shall have a seal of its own.The impression of the seal shall be certified and kept on record of the
Commission.
(2)
Every order or communication made, notice issued or certified copy granted by the Commission shall be stamped with
the seal of the Commission and shall be certified by an officer designated for the purpose.
6.
Members, officers and employees of the Commission to be public servants.
- The Chairman, Members, officers and other employees of the Commission shall be deemed, when acting or purporting
to act in pursuance of any of the provisions of the Act to be public servants within the meaning of Section 21 of the
Indian Penal Code.
7.
Protection of action taken in good faith.
- No suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall lie against the Commission or the officers of the Commission for
anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done under the Act or the rule and regulations made thereunder.
8.
Officers of the Commission.
(1)
The Commission shall have the power to appoint Secretary, officers and other employees for discharging various duties.
It may also prescribe the qualifications, experience and other terms and conditions for the appointment of such officers
Page 3/17
----- PAGE 4 -----
Jharkhand Electricity Regulatory Commission-Conduct of Business Regulations, 2003
and other employees.
(2)
The Commission may appoint Consultants to assist the Commissions in the discharge of Its functions
9.
Secretary of the Commission.
(1)
The Secretary shall perform such functions as are assigned to him by these Regulations or otherwise by the
Commission or the Chairman.
(2)
In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the above provision, the Secretary shall have the following powers
and perform the following duties namely:
(a)
He shall have the custody of the seal and records of the Commission;
(b)
He shall receive or cause to receive all petitions, applications or references on behalf of the Commission;
(c)
He shall prepare or cause to be prepared briefs and summaries of all pleadings before the Commission in the discharge
of its function in this regard and that such summary shall Indicate the names of the parties and the relief sought in
verbatim without going into the merits of the pleading;
(d)
He shall assist in the proceedings conducted by the Commission;
(e)
He shall issue certified copies of the order passed by the Commission.
(f)
He shall ensure compliance of the orders passed by the Commission as stated in Regulation 54 of these regulations.
(g)
He shall have the right to collect from the Government of other offices, companies and firms or any other party as may
be directed by the Commission, such information as may be considered useful for the purpose of efficient discharge of
the functions of the Commission under the Act and place the information before the Commission.
(3)
The Secretary may, with the approval of the Commission, delegate to any other officer of the Commission any function
required by these Regulations or otherwise, to be exercised by the Secretary.
(4)
In the absence of the Secretary, such other officer of the Commission, as may be designated by the Chairman, may
exercise all the functions of the Secretary.
(5)
The Chairman may delegate to the officers such functions including functions that may be required by these Regulations
to be performed by the Secretary on terms and conditions to be specified for the purpose.
(6)
The Commission shall at all times have the authority, either on an application made to it by any interested or affected
party or suo motu to entertain, review, revoke, revise, modify, amend, alter or otherwise change any order passed or
action taken by the Secretary or the officers of the Commission, if the Commission considers the same to be
appropriate.
10.
Advisory Committee.
- An advisory Committee shall be constituted in accordance with the provisions of Section 87 of the Act. This committee
shall conduct its business in line with the State Advisory Committee Regulations to achieve the objects as specified
under Section 88 of the Act.
Chapter II
Proceedings before the Commission
11.
Page 4/17
----- PAGE 5 -----
Jharkhand Electricity Regulatory Commission-Conduct of Business Regulations, 2003
Proceedings before the Commission.
(1)
The Commission may from time to time hold such proceedings, as it may consider appropriate in the discharge of its
functions under the Act. The Commission may appoint an officer or any other person whom the Commission considers
appropriate to represent the matter as Commission's representative in the proceedings.
(2)
All matters which the Commission is required under the Act to undertake and discharge through hearings of the affected
parties and such other matter as the Commission may consider appropriate shall be done through proceedings.
(3)
All other matters may be decided by the Commission administratively through the meeting of the Chairman and
Members or by such other officers or persons to whom the powers and functions have been delegated.
(4)
[ All questions which come up before any meeting of the Appropriate Commission shall be decided by a majority of votes
of the Members present and voting and in the event of an equality of votes, the Chairperson or in his absence, the
person presiding shall have a second or second casting vote.]
['Regulation 11(4)' Inserted vide Notification No. JSERC/Misc. order 271 dated 3.8.2004, published in Jharkhand
Gazette (extra-ordinary) dated 5.8.2004.]
12.
Quorum.
- For all initial procedural issues, the quorum may be one member. Except for initial procedural issues like notices, filing
of copies and documents, the quorum of the Commission shall be two among the three members.
13.
Conduct of proceedings in the absence of Chairman.
- The Chairman shall normally preside over the meetings/proceedings of the Commission. If he is unable to attend the
meetings/proceedings of the Commission, any other member nominated by the Chairman In this behalf and in the
absence of such nomination or where there is no Chairman, any member chosen by the members present from among
themselves shall preside at the meeting/proceeding.
14.
Decision through majority of votes.
- [x x x x x]
['Regulation 14' removed vide Notification No. JSERC/22/04 dated 8.6.2006, published in the Jharkhand Gazette
(extra-ordinary) dated 9.6.2006.]
15.
Authority to represent.
- A person may authorise an advocate or a member of any recognised professional body as the Commission may from
time to time specify, to represent him and act and plead on his behalf before the Commission. The person may appear
himself or may authorise any of his employees or an agent to appear before the Commission and to act and plead on his
behalf. The Commission may, from time to time, specify the terms and conditions subject to which a person may
authorise any other person to represent him and act and plead on his behalf.
16.
Initiation of proceedings.
(1)
The Commission may initiate any proceedings suo motu or a petition filed any affected or interested person.
(2)
When the Commission initiates the proceedings, it shall be by a due notice issued by the Commission. The Commission
may give such orders and directions as may be deemed necessary, for serving of notices to the affected parties, for the
filing of replies and rejoinders against or in support of the petition in such form as the Commission may direct. The
Commission may, if it considers appropriate, issue orders for publication of the petition inviting comments from the
public or any class of persons on the issue involved in the proceedings in such form as the Commission may direct.
(3)
While issuing the notice or inquiry the Commission may, in suo motu proceedings and other appropriate cases,
Page 5/17
----- PAGE 6 -----
Jharkhand Electricity Regulatory Commission-Conduct of Business Regulations, 2003
designate an officer of the Commission or any other person whom the Commission considers appropriate to present the
matter in the capacity of a petitioner in the case.
17.
Petitions and pleadings before the Commission.
- All petitions to be filed before the Commission shall be typewritten or printed neatly and legibly on one side of white
paper and every page shall be consecutively numbered. The contents of the petition shall be divided appropriately into
separate paragraphs, which shall be numbered serially. The petition shall be accompanied by such authenticated
documents, listed serially and marked as Annexure alphabetically in capital letters along with supporting data and
statements.
18.
General Headings.
- The general heading in all petitions before the Commission shall be in Form 1 (Annexure-1).
19.
Affidavit in support.
(1)
Petitions or objections or counters filed shall be verified by an affidavit and every such affidavit shall be in Form 2
(Annexure-2).
(2)
Every affidavit shall be drawn up in the first person and shall state the full name, age, occupation and address of the
deponent and the capacity in which he is signing and shall be signed and sworn before a person lawfully authorised to
take and receive affidavits.
(3)
Every affidavit shall clearly and separately indicate statements that are true to the
(a)
belief of the deponent,
(b)
knowledge of the deponents, and
(c)
information received by the deponent.
(4)
Where any statement in the affidavit is stated to be true to the information received by the deponent the affidavit shall
also disclose the source of the information and a statement that the deponent believes that information to be true.
20.
Presentation and scrutiny of the pleadings etc.
(1)
All petitions shall be filed with specified number of copies and each set of the petition shall be complete in all
respects.The fees as may be prescribed by the Commission shall be payable along with the petition.
(2)
All petitions shall be presented in person or by any duly authorised agent or representative at the headquarters or such
other filing centre or centres as may be notified by the Commission from time to time and during the time notified. The
petitions may also be sent by registered post with acknowledgement due to the Commission at the place mentioned
above. The Vakalatnama in favour of the Advocate and in the event the petitions are presented by the authorised agent
or representative the document authorising the agent or representative shall be filed along with the petition, if not
already filed on the record of the case.
(3)
Upon the receipt of the petition, the designated officer (the officer of the Commission designated for the purpose) shall
acknowledge the receipt by stamping and endorsing the date of its receipt/presentation and shall issue an
acknowledgement. In case the petition is received by registered post, the date on which the petition is actually received
at the office of the Commission shall be taken as the date of the presentation of the petition.
(4)
The presentation and receipt of the petition shall be duly entered in the register maintained for the purpose by the office
Page 6/17
----- PAGE 7 -----
Jharkhand Electricity Regulatory Commission-Conduct of Business Regulations, 2003
of the Commission.
(5)
The designated officer may decline to accept any petition which does not conform to the provisions of the Act or the
Regulations or directions given by the Commission or otherwise defective or which is presented otherwise than in
accordance with the Regulation or directions of the Commission. Provided no petition shall be refused for defect in the
pleadings or in the presentation, without giving an opportunity to the person filing the petition to rectify the defect within
the time which may be given for the purpose. The designated officer shall advise in writing the person filing the petition
of the defects in the petition filed and it shall be the responsibility of the person filing the petition/application to rectify the
discrepancies pointed out by the designated officer within the prescribed time.
(6)
A person aggrieved by any order of the designated officer in regard to the presentation of the petition may request the
matter to be placed before the Secretary of the Commission for appropriate orders.
(7)
The Chairman or any Member designated by the Chairman for the purpose, shall be entitled to call for the petition
presented by the party and give such directions regarding the presentation and acceptance of the petition as considered
appropriate.
(8)
If after scrutiny, the petition is accepted by the Secretary or by the Chairman or the Member of the Commission, the
petition shall be duly registered and given a number in the manner to be specified by the Commission. Petition thus
registered shall be placed before the Commission for admission.
(9)
The Commission may admit the petition for hearing without requiring the attendance of the party. The Commission shall
not, pass an order refusing admission without giving the party concerned an opportunity of being heard. The
Commission may also desire to hear the respondents.
(10)
If the Commission admits the petitions, it may give such orders and directions, as may be deemed necessary, for
service of notices to the respondent and other affected or interested parties for the filing of replies and rejoinder in
opposition or in support of the petition.
(11)
The Commission while ordering notice/publication shall determine dates for:
(a)
Filing counter or objections.
(b)
Rejoinders if any to the counters or objections.
(c)
Hearing on the pleadings.
The respondents and/or third parties shall file their respective counters or objections on or before the specified dates,
after serving a copy on the other parties to the proceedings.
21.
Serving of notices and processes issued by the Commission.
(1)
Any notice or process to be issued by the Commission may be served under any one or more of the following ways:
(a)
Service by any of the parties to the proceedings as may be directed by the Commission;
(b)
By hand delivery through a messenger duly acknowledged;
(c)
By registered post with acknowledgement;
(d)
By publishing in newspaper in cases where the Commission is satisfied that it is not reasonably practicable to serve the
notices, processes, etc., on any person in the manner mentioned above;
Page 7/17
----- PAGE 8 -----
Jharkhand Electricity Regulatory Commission-Conduct of Business Regulations, 2003
(e)
In any other manner as considered appropriate by the Commission.
(2)
The Commission shall be entitled to decide in each case, the persons who shall bear the cost of such
service/publication.
(3)
Every notice or process required to be served on or delivered to any person may be sent to the person or his agent
empowered to accept service at the address furnished by him or at the place where the person or his agent ordinarily
resides or carries on business or personally works.
(4)
In the event, when any matter is pending before the Commission and the person to be served has authorised an agent
or representative to appear for or represent him in the matter, such agent or representative shall be deemed to be duly
empowered to take service of the notices and processes on behalf of the party concerned in all the matters and the
service on such agent or representative shall be taken as due service on the person to be served.
(5)
Where a notice is served by a party to the proceedings either in person or through registered post, an affidavit of service
shall be filed by such party with the Commission giving details of the date and manner of service of notices and
processes.
(6)
Where any petition is required to be published, it shall be done so within such time as the Commission may direct and
unless otherwise directed by the Commission, in one issue each of a daily newspaper in the English language and one
newspaper in Hindi language having wide circulation in the area specified by the Commission.
(7)
In default of compliance with the requirements of the Regulations or directions of the Commission as regards the service
of notices, summons or processes or the advertisement and publication thereof, the Commission may either dismiss the
petition or give such other further directions as it thinks fit.
(8)
No service or publication required to be done shall be deemed invalid by reason of any defect in the name or description
of a person provided that the Commission is satisfied that such service is in other respects sufficient. No proceedings
shall be invalidated by reason of any defect or irregularity unless the Commission, on an objection taken, is of the
opinion that substantial injustice has been caused by such defect or irregularity or there are otherwise sufficient reasons
for doing so.
22.
Publication of petition.
(1)
Where any application, petition or other matter is required to be published under the Act or as per these Regulations or
as per the directions of the Commission, it shall unless the Commission otherwise orders or the Act or Regulations
otherwise provide, be advertised not less than seven days before the date fixed for hearing.
(2)
Except as otherwise provided, such advertisements shall give a heading describing the subject matter in brief.
(3)
Such advertisement to be published shall be approved by the officer of the Commission designated for the purpose.
23.
Filing of reply, opposition, objections, etc.
(1)
Each person to whom the notice of enquiry or the petition is issued (hereinafter called the respondent) who intends to
oppose or support the petition, shall file the reply and the authenticated documents relied upon within such period and
with specified number of copies as may be fixed by the Commission. In the reply filed, the respondent shall specifically
admit, deny or explain the facts stated in the notice of inquiry or the petition and may also state such additional facts as
he considers necessary for proper adjudication of the case. The reply shall be signed and verified and supported by
affidavit in the same manner as in the case of the petition. The respondent shall also indicate in the reply whether he
Page 8/17
----- PAGE 9 -----
Jharkhand Electricity Regulatory Commission-Conduct of Business Regulations, 2003
wishes to participate in the proceedings and be heard in person.
(2)
The respondent shall serve a copy of the reply along with the documents duly attested to be true copies on the petitioner
or his authorised representative and file proof of such service with the Commission at the time of filing the reply.
(3)
Where the respondent states additional facts as may be necessary for the decision of the case, the Commission may
allow the petitioner to file a rejoinder to the reply filed by the respondents. The Procedure mentioned above for filing of
the reply shall apply mutatis mutandis to the filing of the rejoinder.
(4)
Every person who intends to file objection or comments in regard to a matter pending before the Commission pursuant
to the advertisement and publication made for the purpose (other than the persons to whom notices, processes, etc.,
have been issued calling for reply) shall deliver to the designated officer, the statement of the objection or comments
with copies of the authenticated documents and evidence in support thereof within the time fixed for the purpose as per
clause 11 of Regulation 20.
24.
Hearing of the matter.
(1)
The Commission may determine the stages, manner, the place, the date and the time of the hearing of the matter as
considered appropriate.
(2)
The Commission may decide the matter on the pleadings of parties or may call for evidence from the parties by way of
affidavit or lead oral evidence in the matter.
(3)
If the Commission directs evidence of a party to be led by way of affidavit, or oral submission, the Commission may, if
considered to be necessary, or expedient, grant an opportunity to the other party to cross-examine the persons giving
the evidence.
(4)
The Commission may, if considered necessary or expedient, direct that the evidence of any of the parties be recorded
by an officer or person designated for the purpose by the Commission.
(5)
The Commission may permit such person or persons including associations, forums and bodies corporate as it may
consider appropriate to participate in the proceedings before the Commission, if the Commission considers that the
participation of such person or persons will facilitate the proceedings and the decision in the matter.
(6)
The Commission may direct the parties to file written note of arguments or submissions in the matter.
25.
Powers of the Commission to call for further information, evidence etc.
- The Commission shall for the purposes of any inquiry or proceedings, have the powers as are vested in a Civil Court
under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 for the following matters:
(1)
Summoning and enforcing of attendance of any witness and examining on oath.
For the purpose of enforcing the attendance of witnesses, the local limits of the jurisdiction of the Commission shall be
the limits of the territory of India.
(2)
The discovery and production of any document or other material object producible as evidence.
Every person to whom a notice may be issued shall furnish such information, details, books, accounts and other
documents as may be specified in such notice by the Commission.
(3)
Receiving evidence on affidavits.
(4)
Requisition of any public record from any Court or office, examination by a designated officer of the Commission, the
Page 9/17
----- PAGE 10 -----
Jharkhand Electricity Regulatory Commission-Conduct of Business Regulations, 2003
books, accounts, other documents or information in the custody or control of any person, which the Commission
considers relevant to the matter.
(5)
The issue of Commission for the examination of witnesses.
(6)
The appearance of parties and consequences for non-appearance.
(7)
Grant of adjournments at the hearing.
26.
Power of seizure.
- The Commission or any other designated officer, specially authorised in this behalf by the Commission, may enter any
building or place where the Commission has reason to believe that any document relating to the subject matter of the
inquiry may be found, and may seize any such document or take extracts or copies there from subject to the provisions
of Section 100 of the Code of Criminal Procedure 1973, in so far as it may be applicable.
27.
Reference of issues to others.
(1)
At any stage of the proceedings the Commission shall be entitled to refer such issue or issues in the matter as it
considers appropriate to persons including but not limited to, the officers and consultants of the Commission whom the
Commission considers as qualified to give expert or specialised advice or opinion.
(2)
The Commission may nominate from time to time any person including, but not limited to the officers and consultants to
visit any place or places for inspection and report on the existence or status of the place or any facilities therein.
(3)
The Commission, if it thinks fit, may direct the parties to appear before the persons designated in clause (1) or (2) above
to present their respective views on the issues or matters referred to.
(4)
The report or the opinion received from such person shall form a part of the record of the case and the parties shall be
given the copies of the report or opinion given by the person designated by the Commission.The parties shall be entitled
to file their version either in support or in opposition to the report or the opinion.
(5)
The Commission shall duly take into account the report or the opinion given by the person and the reply filed by the
parties while deciding the matter and if considered necessary, the Commission shall examine the person giving the
report or the opinion. The Commission shall however not be bound by the report or the opinion given as conclusive.
28.
Procedure to be followed where any party does not appear.
(1)
Where, on the date fixed for hearing or any other date to which such hearing may be adjourned, any of the party or his
authorised agent or representative does not appear when the matter is called for hearing, the Commission may, in its
discretion, either dismiss the petition for default when the petitioner or the person who moves the Commission for
hearing is absent or proceed ex-parte against the party failing to appear and hear and decide the petition.
(2)
Where a petition is dismissed in default or decided ex-parte, the person aggrieved may file an application within 30
(thirty) days from the date of such dismissal or being proceeded ex-parte, as the case may be, for recall of the order
passed, and the Commission may recall the order on such terms as it thinks fit, if the Commission is satisfied that there
was sufficient cause for the non-appearance when the petition was called for hearing.
29.
Continuance of proceedings after death etc.
(1)
Where in any proceedings, any of the parties to the proceedings dies or is adjudicated as an insolvent or in the case of a
company under liquidation/winding up, the proceedings shall continue with the successors-in-interest, the executor,
Page 10/17
----- PAGE 11 -----
Jharkhand Electricity Regulatory Commission-Conduct of Business Regulations, 2003
administrator, receiver liquidator or other legal representative of the party concerned.
(2)
The Commission may, for reasons to be recorded, treat the proceedings as abated in case the Commission so directs
and dispenses with the need to bring the successors-in-interest etc., on the record of the case.
(3)
In case any person wishes to bring on record the successors-in-interest etc, the application for the purpose shall be filed
within 90 days or within the time fixed by the Commission in each specific case from the event requiring the
successors-in-interest to come on record.
30.
Proceedings to be open to public.
- The proceedings before the Commission shall be open to the public. However, admission to the hearing room shall be
subject to availability of sitting accommodation:
Provided that the Commission, if it thinks fit and for reason to be recorded in writing, order at any stage of the
proceedings of any particular case that the public generally or any particular person or group of persons shall not have
access to or remain in the room or building used by the Commission.
31.
Orders of the Commission.
(1)
On conclusion of hearing of the case before the Commission, the Commission shall pronounce the orders in the open
Court or soon thereafter as may be practicable on some future day. In the later case when the Commission fixes a future
day for pronouncing the orders, due notices intimating the date shall be served on the concerned parties.
(2)
The order shall be dated and signed by the Commission at the time of pronouncing it. Such orders shall not be,
afterwards, altered or added to unless and except there is any clerical or arithmetical errors arising therein from any
oversight or omission.
(3)
The order shall contain statement and counter statement of facts in brief, the points or issues for determination, the
decision thereon and the reasons for such decision. This will include dissenting conclusion, if any, as specified in
subsection (4).
(4)
While giving the orders after hearing, if the Chairman or any Member of the Commission dissents, he shall give his
dissenting conclusion with reasons. The orders of the Commission shall be based on majority view of the Commission
as per Section 14 of these regulations.
(5)
All orders and decisions issued or communicated by the Commission shall be certified by the signature of the Secretary
or an officer empowered in this behalf by the Commission and bear the official seal of the Commission.
(6)
All orders of the Commission shall be communicated to the parties in the proceedings under the signature of the
Secretary or an officer empowered in this behalf by the Commission.
32.
Interim orders.
- The Commission may pass interim orders as considered appropriate at any stage of the proceedings. It may also do so
when such interim orders are sought for by the concerned parties.
33.
Recovery of costs.
(1)
Subject to such conditions and limitation as may be, directed by the Commission, the cost of and incidental to all
proceedings shall be awarded at the discretion of the Commission and the Commission shall have full power to
determine by whom or out of what funds to what extent such costs are to be paid and give all necessary directions for
the aforesaid purposes.
(2)
Page 11/17
----- PAGE 12 -----
Jharkhand Electricity Regulatory Commission-Conduct of Business Regulations, 2003
The costs shall be paid within 30 (thirty) days from the date of the order or within such time as the Commission may, by
order, direct. The order of the Commission awarding costs shall be executed in the same manner as the decree/ order of
a Civil Court.
(3)
The Commission may recover any cost or penalty imposed by it on any party or parties to any proceedings, as land
revenue in the event of any default committed by such party or parties, within the time specified by the Commission.
34.
Inspection of records and supply of certified copies.
(1)
Records of every proceedings shall be open, as a matter of right, to the inspection of the parties or their authorised
representatives at any time either during the proceedings or after the orders are passed, subject to payment of fee and
complying with, other terms, the Commission may direct.
(2)
Records of every proceeding, except those parts, which, for reasons specified by the Commission, are confidential or
privileged or otherwise not to be disclosed to any person, shall be open to inspection by any person other than the
parties to the petition either during the proceeding or after the orders have been passed, subject to such person
complying with such terms as the Commission may direct from time to time including in regard to time, place and
manner of inspection and payment of prescribed fees.
(3)
Any person shall be entitled to obtain certified copies of the orders, decisions, directions given by the Commission as
well as the pleadings, papers and other parts of the records of the Commission to which he is entitled subject to
payment of fee and complying with other terms which the Commission may direct.
35.
Judicial cover for the Commission and the proceedings.
- All proceedings before the Commission shall be deemed to be judicial proceedings within the meaning of Sections 193
and 228 of the Indian Penal Code and the Commission shall be deemed to be a Civil Court for the purposes of Sections
345 and 346 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973.
36.
Punishment for non-compliance of directions given by the Commission.
(1)
In case any complaint is filed before the Commission by any person or if the Commission is satisfied that any person
has contravened any directions issued by the Commission, rules or Regulations made thereunder, the Commission may
after giving such person an opportunity or being heard in the matter, by order in writing, direct that, without prejudice to
any other penalty to which he may be liable, such person shall pay, by way of penalty, which shall not exceed rupees
one lakh for each contravention and in case of a continuing failure, with an additional penalty which may extend to
rupees six thousand for each day during which the failure continues after contravention of the first such direction.
(2)
Any amount payable under this Section, If not paid, may be recovered as If it were an arrear of land revenue.
37.
Offences by companies.
(1)
Where an offence under the Act has been committed by a company, every person who at the time, the offence v is
committed was in charge of, and was responsible to the company for the conduct of the business of the company, as
well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly:
Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable to any punishment provided in
the Act, if he proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge or that he has exercised all due diligence to
prevent the commission of such offence.
(2)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) above, where an offence under the Act has been committed by a
company and it is proved that the offence has been committed with the consent or connivance of or is attributable to any
Page 12/17
----- PAGE 13 -----
Jharkhand Electricity Regulatory Commission-Conduct of Business Regulations, 2003
neglect on the part of any director, manager, secretary or other officer of the company, such director, manager,
secretary or other officer shall also be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly.
(3)
For the purpose of this Section, 'Company' means any body corporate and includes a firm or other association of
individuals. Also 'director' in relations to a firm, means a partner in the firm.
38.
Punishment for false evidence.
- In accordance with Section 193 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860, whoever intentionally gives false evidence in any of
the proceedings of the Commission or fabricates false evidence for the purpose of being used in any of the proceedings
shall be punishable with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years and shall also
be liable to fine.
39.
Punishment for insult, interruption.
(1)
In accordance with Section 228 of of the Indian Penal Code, I860, whoever intentionally offers any insult or causes any
interruption in any of the proceedings of the Commission shall be punishable with simple imprisonment for a term which
may extend to six months or with fine which may extend to Rs. 1000/- or with both.
(2)
In accordance with Section 345 of the Criminal Procedure Code, 1973, whoever intentionally offers any insult or causes
any interruption in the presence of the Commission, the Commission may cause the offender to be detained in custody
and may at any time before the raising of the Commission on the same day take cognizance of the offence and after
giving the offender a reasonable opportunity of showing cause why he should not be punished under this Section,
sentence the offender to fine not exceeding Rs. 200/- and in default of payment of fine, simple imprisonment for a term
which may extend to one month unless such fine be sooner paid.
(3)
If the Commission, in any case, as referred to in the above regulation, considers that a person accused of any of the
offences referred to there under and committed in its view or presence, should be imprisoned otherwise than in default
of payment of fine or with a fine exceeding Rs. 200/- should be imposed on him or the Commission is for any other
reason of opinion that the case should not be disposed of by it under Commission's Regulations, may forward the case
to a Magistrate having jurisdiction to try the same and may require security be given for the appearance of such person
before such Magistrate, or if, sufficient security is not given, shall forward such person in custody to such Magistrate.
Chapter III
Investigation, Enquiry and Collection of Information
40.
The Commission may make such order or orders as it thinks fit, for collection of information, enquiry, investigation, entry,
search, seizure and without prejudice to the generality of its powers in regard to the following;
(a)
The Commission may, at any lime, direct the Secretary or any one or more officers or consultants or any other person
as the Commission considers appropriate to study, investigate or furnish information with respect to any matter within
the purview of the Commission.
(b)
The Commission may for the above purpose give such other directions as may deem fit and specify the time within
which the report is to be submitted or information furnished.
(c)
The Commission may issue or authorise the Secretary or any other officer to issue directions to any person to produce
before it, the books accounts other records etc., for examination or retention thereof by such officer and/or to furnish the
required information to such officer.
(d)
The Commission may, issue such directions as may be considered necessary for the purpose of collecting any
information, particulars or document required for proper discharge of its functions.
Page 13/17
----- PAGE 14 -----
Jharkhand Electricity Regulatory Commission-Conduct of Business Regulations, 2003
(e)
If any such report on information obtained appears to the Commission to be insufficient or inadequate, the Commission
or the Secretary or an officer authorised for the purpose may give directions for further inquiry, report and furnishing of
information.
(f)
The Commission shall specially authorise, the Secretary or any other officer to enter any building or place where there is
reason to believe that any document or record relating lo the subject matter of its inquiry or adjudication under the Act,
may be found and to seize or take extracts or copies thereof.
41.
Notice of Inquiry.
- In connection with the discharge of the functions under the Act and Regulations thereof, the Commission may if it
thinks fit, direct a notice of inquiry to be issued and proceed with the matter in a manner provided under Chapter II of
these Regulations.
42.
Assistance of experts.
(1)
The Commission may at any time take the assistance of any institution, consultants, experts, engineers, chartered
accountants, advocates, surveyors and such other technical and professional persons, as it may, consider necessary,
and ask them to study, investigate, inquire into any matter or issue and submit report or reports or furnish any
information. The Commission may determine the terms and conditions for engagement of such professionals.
(2)
If the report or information obtained in terms of the above Regulations or any part thereof is proposed to be relied upon
by the Commission forming its opinion or view in any proceedings, the parties in the proceedings shall be given a
reasonable opportunity for filing objections and making submissions on the report or information.
Chapter IV
Miscellaneous
43.
Review of the decisions, directions and orders.
(1)
The Commission may on its own or on the application of any of the persons or parties concerned within 30 days of the
making of any decision, direction or order, review such decision, directions or orders which has errors apparent on
record or if substantial issues or precedents have not been considered at the time of hearing and for such reason the
Commission may deem fit.
(2)
An application for such review shall be filed in the same manner as a petition under Chapter II of these Regulations.
44.
Appeal to Appellate Tribunal for Electricity in certain cases.
(1)
Any person aggrieved by any decision or order of the Commission may file an appeal to the Appellate Tribunal for
Electricity.
(2)
Except as aforesaid, no appeal or revision shall lie to any Court from any decision or order of the Commission.
(3)
Every appeal under this Section shall be preferred within sixty days from the date of communication of the decision or
order of the Commission to the persons aggrieved by the said decision or order provided that Appellate Tribunal for
Electricity may entertain an appeal after the expiry of the said period of sixty days if it is satisfied that the aggrieved
person had sufficient cause for not preferring the appeal within the said period of sixty days.
45.
Recognition for Consumer Associations.
(1)
It shall be open to the Commission to permit any Registered Association/Forum or other bodies, corporate or any group
Page 14/17
----- PAGE 15 -----
Jharkhand Electricity Regulatory Commission-Conduct of Business Regulations, 2003
of consumers to participate in any proceedings before the Commission.
(2)
It shall be open to the Commission for the sake of timely completion of proceeding, to direct grouping of the
associations/forums, referred to above so that they can make collective affidavits.
(3)
The Commission may as and when considered appropriate notify a procedure for recognition of associations, group,
forum or bodies corporate as registered consumer association for purposes of representation before the Commission.
(4)
The Commission may appoint any officer or any other person to represent the interest of the consumer in general or any
class or classes of consumers as the Commission may consider appropriate.
(5)
The Commission may direct payment to the officer or person appointed to represent the consumers interest such fees,
costs and expense by such of the parties in the proceedings as the Commission may consider appropriate.
46.
Inspection of Commission's records and confidentiality.
(1)
Records of the Commission, except those parts which for reasons specified by the Commission are, confidential or
privileged shall be open to Inspection by all. subject to the payment of fee and complying with the terms as the
Commission may direct.
(2)
The Commission may, on such terms and conditions as the Commission considers appropriate provide for supply of the
certified copies of the documents and papers available with the Commission to any person.
(3)
The Commission may by order, direct that any information, documents, other papers and materials in the possession of
the Commission or any of its officers, consultants, which are required by law or for other reasons specified to be kept
confidential or privileged, shall not be available for inspection or supply of copies, and the Commission may also direct
that such document, papers or materials shall not be used in any other manner except as specifically authorised by the
Commission.
47.
Issue of orders and directions on procedures.
- Subject to the provisions of the Act and these Regulations, the Commission may, from time to time, issue orders and
directions in regard to the implementation of the Regulations and procedure to be followed and various matters which
the Commission has been empowered by these Regulations to specify or direct.
48.
Saving of inherent power of the Commission.
(1)
Nothing in these Regulations shall be deemed to limit or otherwise affect the inherent power of the Commission to make
such orders as may be necessary for ends of justice or to prevent the abuse of the process of the Commission.
(2)
Nothing in these Regulations shall bar the Commission from adopting in conformity with the provisions of the Act, a
procedure, which is at variance with any of the provisions of these Regulation, if the Commission, in view of the special
circumstances of a matter or class of matters and for reasons to be recorded in writing deems it necessary or expedient
for dealing with such a matter or class of matters.
(3)
Nothing in these Regulations shall, expressly or impliedly bar the Commission to deal with any matter or exercise any
power under the Act for which no regulation have been framed, and the Commission may deal with such matters with
powers and functions in a manner it thinks fit.
49.
General power to amend.
- The Commission may, at any time and on such terms as to costs or otherwise, as it may think fit, amend any defect or
error in any proceeding before it, and all necessary amendments shall be made for the purpose of determining the real
Page 15/17
----- PAGE 16 -----
Jharkhand Electricity Regulatory Commission-Conduct of Business Regulations, 2003
question or issue arising in the proceedings.
50.
Power to remove difficulties.
- If any difficulty arises in giving effect to any of the provisions of these Regulations, the Commission may, by general or
special order, take action, for removing the same, consistent with the provisions of the Act.
51.
Power to dispense with the requirement of the Regulations.
- The Commission shall have the power, for reasons to be recorded in writing to dispense with the requirements of any
of the Regulations in a specific case or cases subject to such terms and conditions as may be specified.
52.
Extension or abridgement of time prescribed.
- Subject to the provisions of the Act, the time prescribed by these Regulations or by order of the Commission for doing
any act may be extended (whether it has already, expired or not) or abridged for sufficient reason by order of the
Commission.
53.
Effect of non-compliance.
- Failure to comply with any requirement of these Regulations shall not invalidate any proceeding merely by reason of
such failure unless the Commission is of the view that such failure (sic) miscarriage of Justice.
54.
Enforcement of orders passed.
- The Secretary shall ensure enforcement (sic) the Commission, by the persons concerned in accordance (sic)
Regulations and if necessary, may seek the orders of the Commission for (sic).
55.
Cognizance of offence.
- No Court shall take cognizance of an offence punishable under the Act except upon a complaint, in writing, made by
the Commission or by any other officer duly authorised by the Commission for this purpose.
56.
Competitions, Efficiency and Economy.
- The Commission, in all its endeavours shall bring in measures of competition, efficiency and economy in the activities
of Electricity Industry in Jhakhand, as envisaged in Section 86 of the Act. Towards this end, it will strive to introduce
more players in the activities of Electrical, Industry, Enforce Functional and Financial Efficiency Measures and insure
that both the Producers and Consumers derive economic advantage.
Annexure 1
Form 1
(See Regulation 16)
General Heading for proceedings
Before the Jharkhand Electricity Regulatory Commission Filing No Case No.
(To be filled by the Office)
In the matter of:
(Gist of the purpose of the petition or application)
and
In the matter of:
(Names and full addresses of the petitioners /applicants and names and full addresses of respondents)
Details of enclosures : (i) Form 2 (Affidavit)
(ii)
(iii)
(iv)
Annexure 2
Form 2
(See Regulation 17) Affidavit in support
Before the Jharkhand Electricity Regulatory Commission
Page 16/17
----- PAGE 17 -----
Jharkhand Electricity Regulatory Commission-Conduct of Business Regulations, 2003
Filing No.
Case No.
(To be filled by the Office)
In the Matter of:
(Gist of the purpose of the petition or application)
and
In the Matter of:
(Names and full addresses of the petitioners/applicants and names and full addresses of the respondents)
Affidavit verifying the petition/application
I..............Son of..............aged..............residing at.............do solemnly affirm and say as follows :
1. I am a Director/Secretary of Ltd. the petitioner in the above matter and am duly authorised by the said petitioner to
make this affidavit on its behalf.
2. I solemnly affirm at on this day of that
(i)
the contents of the above petition are true to my knowledge and I believe that no part of it is false and no material has
been concealed there from.
(ii)
that the statement made in paragraphs of the petition herein now shown to me and marked with the letter 'A' are true to
my knowledge and.
(iii)
that the statements made in paragraphs marked with the letter 'B' are based on information received from and I believe
them to be true.
Identified before me by
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 17/17