
----- PAGE 1 -----
Jharkhand Freedom of Religion Act, 2017
Jharkhand Freedom of Religion Act, 2017
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/5802693/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
7
]
State of Jharkhand - Act
Jharkhand Freedom of Religion Act, 2017
JHARKHAND
India
Jharkhand Freedom of Religion Act, 2017
Act 17 of 2017
Published on 11 September 2017
Commenced on 11 September 2017
[This is the version of this document from 11 September 2017.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Jharkhand Freedom of Religion Act, 2017
(Jharkhand Act
No. 17 of 2017
)
[Published in Jharkhand Gazette (Extraordinary) No. 657, dated 11.9.2017]
A Act to provide for prohibition of conversion from one religion to another by the use of force or allurement or by
fraudulent means and for matters incidental thereto.
Be it enacted by the Jharkhand Legislature in the Sixty Eight year of the Republic of India as follows:
1.
Short title, extent and commencement.
(1)
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Jharkhand Freedom of Religion Act, 2017
This Act may be called the Jharkhand Freedom of Religion Act, 2017
(2)
It shall extent to the whole of the State of Jharkhand.
(3)
It shall come into force from the date of its issuance.
2.
Definitions.
- In this Act unless the context otherwise requires;
(a)
"allurement" means offer of any temptation in the form of
(i)
any gift or gratification either in cash or kind;
(ii)
grant of any material benefit, either monetary or otherwise;
(b)
"Conversion" means renouncing one religion and adopting another;
(c)
"Convert" means to make one person to renounce one religion and adopt another religion;
(d)
"Force" shall include a show of force or threat of injury of any kind including threat of divine displeasure or social
ex-communication.
(e)
"Fraud" shall include misrepresentation or any other fraudulent contrivance;
(f)
"Indigenous faith" means such religions, belief and practices including rites, rituals, festivals. Observance, performances,
abstinence, customs as have been found sanctioned, approved, performed by the Scheduled Tribe communities of
Jharkhand from the time these communities have been known.
(g)
"minor" means a person under eighteen years of age.
(h)
"religious faith" means faith related to religion, which also includes indigenous faith.
3.
Prohibition of forcible conversion.
- No person shall convert or attempt to convert, either directly or otherwise, any person from one religion/ religious faith
to another by the use of force or by allurement or by any fraudulent means, nor shall any person abet any such
conversion.
4.
Punishment for contravention of the provision of Section 3.
- Any person contravening the provision contained in Section 3 shall, without prejudice to any civil liability be punishable
with imprisonment which may extend to three years or with fine which may extent to fifty thousand rupees or with both;
Provided that in case the offence is committed in respect of a minor, a woman or a person belonging to the Schedules
Castes or Scheduled Tribes, the punishment shall be imprisonment to the extent of four years and fine up to one
hundred thousand rupees (one lakh rupees);
5.
Prior permission for conversion.
(1)
Whoever converts any person from one religion/religious faith to another, either by performing any ceremony by himself
for such conversion as a religious priest or takes part directly or indirectly in such ceremony shall take prior permission
for such proposed conversion from the District Magistrate concerned by applying in such form as may be prescribed by
rules.
(2)
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Jharkhand Freedom of Religion Act, 2017
The person who is converted shall send intimation to the District Magistrate of the District concerned in which the
ceremony has taken place of the fact of such conversion within such period and in such form as may be prescribed by
rules.
(3)
Whoever fails without sufficient cause, to comply with the provisions of subsection (1) and (2) shall be punished with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year or with fine which may extend to rupees five thousand or with
both.
6.
Offence to be cognizable.
- An offence under this Act shall be cognizable and non bailable. Such cases shall not be investigated by an officer
below the rank of an Inspector of Police.
7.
Prosecution Sanction.
- No prosecution for an offence under this Act shall be instituted except by, or with the previous sanction of the District
Magistrate or such other Authority, not below the rank of a Sub-Divisional Officer, as may be authorized by him in that
behalf.
8.
Power to make rules.
- The State Government may make rules for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this Act.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3