
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Jharkhand Special Courts Act, 2016
The Jharkhand Special Courts Act, 2016
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/122347538/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Jharkhand - Act
The Jharkhand Special Courts Act, 2016
JHARKHAND
India
The Jharkhand Special Courts Act, 2016
Act 21 of 2017
Published on 4 December 2017
Commenced on 4 December 2017
[This is the version of this document from 4 December 2017.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Jharkhand Special Courts Act, 2016
(Jharkhand Act
21 of 2017
)
[Dated 4.12.2017.]
Preamble. - To provide for the constitution of special courts for the speedy trial of certain class of offences and for
confiscation of the properties involved.
Whereas corruption is perceived to be amongst the persons holding public offices and public servants within the
meaning of Section 2(c) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 in the State of Jharkhand;
And Whereas, the Government has sufficient reasons to believe that large number of persons, who have held or are
holding public offices and are public servants within the meaning of Section 2(c) of the Prevention of Corruption Act,
Page 1/7
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Jharkhand Special Courts Act, 2016
1988 have accumulated vast property, disproportionate to their known sources of income by resorting to corrupt means;
His Excellency is satisfied that circumstances exist for taking immediate Action in this regard.
And Whereas, it is obligation of the State to prosecute persons involved in such corrupt practices and confiscate their ill
gotten assets.
And Whereas, the existing courts of Special Judges cannot reasonably be expected to bring the trials, arising out of
those prosecutions, to a speedy termination and it is imperative for the efficient functioning of a parliamentary
democracy and the institutions created by or under the Constitution of India that the aforesaid offenders should be tried
with utmost dispatch;
And Whereas, it is necessary for the said purpose to establish Special Courts to be presided over by the persons who
are or have been Sessions Judges/Additional
Sessions Judges and it is also expedient to make some procedural changes whereby avoidable delay in the final
determination of the guilt or innocence, of the persons to be tried, is eliminated without interfering with the right to a fair
trial.
Be it enacted in the Sixty-seventh Year of the Republic of India by the State Legislature in the following manners:-
Chapter-1 Preliminary
1.
Short title, extent and commencement.
(1)
This Act shall be called the Jharkhand Special Courts Act, 2016.
(2)
It shall extend to the whole of the State of Jharkhand.
(3)
It shall come into force at once.
2.
Definitions.
- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires:-
(a)
`Act' means Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988;
(b)
"authorized officer" means any serving officer belonging to Jharkhand Superior Judicial Service and who is or has been
Sessions Judge/Additional Sessions Judge, nominated by the State Government with the concurrence of the High Court
for the purpose of Section 13;
(c)
"Code" means the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973; (2 of 1974)
(d)
"Declaration" in relation to an offence, means a declaration made under Section 5 in respect of such offence;
(e)
"Offence" means an offence of criminal misconduct which attracts application of Section13(1)(e) of the Act (49 of 1988)
either independently or in combination with any other provision of the Act (49 of 1988) or any of the provision of Indian
Penal Code (i860);
(f)
"Special Court" means a Special Court established under Section 3; and
(g)
Words and expressions used herein and not defined but defined in the Code or the Act shall have the meanings
respectively assigned to them in the Code or the Act.
Chapter-II Establishment of Special Courts
3.
Establishment of Special Courts.
(1)
The State Government shall, for the purpose of speedy trial of^offence, by notification, establish as many Courts as
considered adequate to be called Special Courts.
Page 2/7
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Jharkhand Special Courts Act, 2016
(2)
A Special Court shall be presided over by a Judge to be nominated by the State Government with the concurrence of
the Jharkhand High Court.
(3)
No persor shall be qualified for nomination as a Judge of a Special Court unless he is a member of Jharkhand Superior
Judicial Service and is or has been a Sessions Judge/Additional Sessions Judge in the State.
4.
Cognizance of cases by Special Courts.
- A Special Court shall take cognizance of and try such cases as are instituted before it or transferred to it under' Section
10.
5.
Declaration of cases to be dealt with under this Act.
(1)
If the State Government is of the opinion that there is prima facie evidence of the commission of an offence alleged to
have been committed by a person, who has held or is holding public office and is or has been public servant within the
meaning of Section 2(c) of the Prevention of Corruption Act. 1988 in the State of Jharkhand, the State Government shall
make a declaration to that effect in every case in which it is of the aforesaid opinion.
(2)
Such declaration shall not be called in question in any Court.
6.
Effect of declaration.
(1)
On such declaration being made, notwithstanding anything in the Code or any other law for the time being in force, any
prosecution in respect of the offence shall be instituted only in a Special Court.
(2)
Where any declaration made under Section 5 relates to an offence in respect of which a prosecution has already been
instituted and the proceedings in relation thereto are pending in a Court other than Special Court under this Act, such
proceedings shall, notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, stand transferred to
Special Court for trial of the offence in accordance with this Act.
7.
Jurisdiction of Special Court as to Trial of Offences.
- A Special Court shall have jurisdiction to try any person alleged to have committed the offence in respect of which a
declaration has been made under Section 5, either as principal, conspirator or abettor and all of them can be jointly tried
there with at one trial in accordance with the Code.
8.
Procedure and powers of Special Courts.
(1)
A Special Court shall, in the trial of such cases, follow the procedure prescribed by the Code for the trial of warrant
cases before a Magistrate.
(2)
Save as expressly provided in this Act, the provisions of the Code and of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 (49 of
1988) shall, in so far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, apply to the proceedings before a
Special Court and for the purpose of the said provisions, the persons conducting a prosecution before a Special Court
shall be deemed to be a Public Prosecutor.
(3)
A Special Court may pass, upon any person convicted by it, any sentence authorized by law for the punishment of the
offence of which such person is convicted.
9.
Appeal against orders of Special Courts.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything in the Code, an appeal shall lie from any judgment and sentence of a Special Court to the
Page 3/7
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Jharkhand Special Courts Act, 2016
High Court of Jharkhand both on facts and law.
(2)
Except as aforesaid, no appeal or revision shall lie in any court from any judgment, sentence or order of a Special Court.
(3)
Every appeal under this section shall be preferred within a period of thirty days from the date of judgment and sentence
of a Special Court:
Provided that the High Court may entertain an appeal after the expiry of the said period of thirty days if it is satisfied for
reasons to be recorded in writing that the appellant had sufficient cause for not preferring the appeal within the period.
10.
Transfer of Cases.
- Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Act, it would be open to the High Court of Jharkhand to transfer cases from
one Special Court to another.
11.
Special Court not bound to Adjourn a Trial.
(1)
A Special Court shall not adjourn any trial for any purpose unless such adjournment is, in its opinion, necessary in the
interests of justice and for reasons to be recorded in writing.
(2)
The Special Court shall endeavour to dispose of the trial of the case within a period of one year from the date of its
institutions or transfer, as the case may be.
12.
Presiding Judge may act on evidence recorded by his Predecessor.
- A Judge appointed under Section 3 to preside over a Special Court may act on the evidence recorded by his
predecessor or predecessors or partly recorded by his predecessor or predecessors and partly recorded by himself.
Chapter-III Confiscation of Property
13.
Confiscation of property.
(1)
Where the State Government, on the basis of prima facie evidence, have reasons to believe that any person, who has
held or is holding public office and is or has been a public servant, has committed the offence, the State Government
may, whether or not the Special Court has taken cognizance of the offence, authorize the Public Prosecutor for making
an application to the authorized officer for confiscation under this Act of the money and other property, which the State
Government-believe the said person to have procured by means of the offence.;
(2)
An application under sub-section (1)-
(a)
shall be accompanied by one or more affidavits, stating the grounds on which the belief, that the said person has
committed the offence, is founded and the amount of money and estimated value of other property believed to have
been procured by means of the offence; and
(b)
shall also contain any information available as to the location for the time being of any such money and other property,
and shall, if necessary, give other particulars considered relevant to the context.
14.
Notice for Confiscation.
(1)
Upon receipt of an application made under Section 13 of this Act, the authorized officer shall serve a notice upon the
person in respect of whom the application is made (hereafter referred to as the person affected) calling upon him within
such time as may be specified in the notice, which shall not be ordinarily less than thirty days, to indicate the source of
his income, earnings or assets, out of which or by means of which he has acquired such money or property, the
evidence on which he relies and other relevant information and particulars, and to show cause as to why all or any of
such money or property or both, should not be declared to have been acquired by means of the offence and be
Page 4/7
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Jharkhand Special Courts Act, 2016
confiscated to the State Government.
(2)
Where a notice under sub-section (1) to any person specifies any money or property or both as being held on behalf of
such person by any other person, a copy of the notice shall also be served upon such other person.
(3)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), the evidence, information and particulars brought on record
before the authorized officer, by the person affected or the State Government shall be open to be rebutted in the trial
before the Special Court provided that such rebuttal shall be confined to the trial for determination and adjudication of
guilt of the offender by the Special Court under this Act.
15.
Confiscation of property in certain cases.
(1)
The authorized officer may, after considering the explanation, if any, to the show cause notice issued under Section 14
and the materials available before it, and after giving to the person affected (and in case where the person affected
holds any money or property specified in the notice through any other person, to such other person also) a reasonable
opportunity of being heard, by order, record a finding whether all or any other money or properties in question have been
acquired illegally.
(2)
Where the authorized officer specifies that some of the money or property or both referred to in the show cause notice
are acquired by means of the offence, but is not able to identify specifically such money or property, then it shall be
lawful for the authorized officer to specify the money or property or both which, to the best of his judgment, have been
acquired by means of the offence and record a finding, accordingly, under subsection (1).
(3)
Where the authorized officer records a finding under this section to the effect that any money or property or both have
been acquired by means of the offence, he shall declare that such money or property or both shall, subject to the
provisions of this Act, stand confiscated to the State Government free from all encumbrances.
(4)
Where any share in a Company stands confiscated to the State Government under this Act, then, the Company shall,
notwithstanding anything contained in the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013) or the Articles of Association of the
Company, forthwith register the State Government as the transferee of such share.
(5)
Every proceeding for confiscation of money or property or both under this Chapter shall be disposed of within a period of
six months from the date of service of the notice under sub-section(1) of Section 14.
(6)
The order of confiscation passed under this section shall, subject to the order passed in appeal, if any, under Section 17,
be final and shall not be called in question in any Court of law.
16.
Transfer to be null and void.
- Where, after the issue of a notice under Section 14, any money or property or both referred to in the said notice are
transferred by any mode whatsoever, such transfer shall, for the purposes of the proceedings under this Act, be void
and if such money or property or both are subsequently confiscated to the State Government under Section 15, then,
the transfer of such money or property or both shall be deemed to be null and void.
17.
Appeal.
(1)
Any person aggrieved by any order of the authorized officer under this Chapter may appeal to the High Court within
thirty days from the date on which the order appealed against was passed.
(2)
Upon any appeal preferred under this section the High Court may, after giving such parties, as it thinks proper, an
opportunity of being heard, pass such order as it thinks fit.
(3)
Page 5/7
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Jharkhand Special Courts Act, 2016
An appeal preferred under sub-section (1) shall be disposed of preferably within a period of six months from the date it is
preferred, and stay order, if any, passed in an appeal shall not remain in force beyond the prescribed period of disposal
of appeal.
18.
Power to take possession.
(1)
Where any money or property or both have been confiscated to the State Government under this Act, the concerned
authorized officer shall order the person affected, as well as any other person, who may be in possession of the money
or property or both to surrender or deliver possession thereof to the concerned authorized officer or to any person duly
authorized by him in this behalf, within thirty days of the service of the order:
Provided that the authorized officer, on an application made in that behalf and being satisfied that the person affected is
residing in the property in question, may instead of dispossessing him immediately from the same, permit such person to
occupy it for a limited period to be specified on payment of market rent to the State Government and thereafter, such
person shall deliver the vacant possession of the property.
(2)
If any person refuses or fails to comply with an order made under subsection (1), the authorized officer may take
possession of the property and may, for that purpose, 'use such force as may be necessary.
(3)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section(2) the authorized officer may, for the purpose of taking possession of
any money or property or both referred to in sub-section(1), requisition the service of any police officer to assist and it
shall be the bounden duty of such officer to comply with such requisition.
19.
Refund of Confiscated money or property.
- Where an order of confiscation made under Section 15 is modified or annulled by the High Court in appeal or where
the person affected is acquitted by the Special Court, the money or property or both shall be returned to the person
affected and in case it is not possible for any reason to return the property, such person shall be paid the price thereof
including the money so confiscated with the interest at the rate of five percent per annum thereon calculated from the
date of confiscation.
Chapter-IV Miscellaneous
20.
Notice or Order not to be invalid for error in description.
- No notice issued or served, no declaration made and no order passed, under this Act shall be deemed to be invalid by
reason of any error in the description of the property or person mentioned therein, if such property or person is
identifiable from the description so mentioned.
21.
Act to be in addition to any other law.
- The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to. and not in derogation of, any other law for the time being in force, and
nothing contained herein shall exempt any public servant from any proceeding which might, apart from this Act, be
instituted against him.
22.
Bar to other Proceedings.
- Save as provided in Sections 9 and 17 and not withstanding anything contained in any other law, no suit or other legal
proceedings shall be maintainable in any Court in respect of any money or property or both ordered to be confiscated
under Section 15.
23.
Protection of action taken in good faith.
- No suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall lie against any person for anything in good faith done or intended
to be done in pursuance of this Act. ^
24.
Power to make rules.
- The State Government may, by notification, make such rules, if any, as it may deem necessary for carrying out the
Page 6/7
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Jharkhand Special Courts Act, 2016
purposes of this Act.
25.
Notifications under Section 3 and declarations under Section 5 to be laid.
- Every notification made under sub-section (1) of Section 3 and every declaration made under sub-section(1) of section
5 shall be laid, as soon as may be, after they are made, before the State Legislature.
26.
Overriding effect.
- Notwithstanding anything in the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 and the Criminal Law Amendment Ordinance, 1944
or any other law for the time being in force, the provisions of this Act shall prevail in case of any inconsistency.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 7/7