
----- PAGE 1 -----
Jharkhand Minerals (Prevention of Illegal Mining, Transportation and Storage) Rules, 2017
Jharkhand Minerals (Prevention of Illegal Mining, Transportation and
Storage) Rules, 2017
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/164506073/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
7
]
State of Jharkhand - Act
Jharkhand Minerals (Prevention of Illegal Mining, Transportation and Storage) Rules, 2017
JHARKHAND
India
Jharkhand Minerals (Prevention of Illegal Mining, Transportation and Storage) Rules, 2017
Rule
JHARKHAND-MINERALS-PREVENTION-OF-ILLEGAL-MINING-TRANSPORTATION-AND-STORAGE-RULES-2017 of
2017
Published on 27 January 2018
Commenced on 27 January 2018
[This is the version of this document from 27 January 2018.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Jharkhand Minerals (Prevention of Illegal Mining, Transportation and Storage) Rules, 2017
Published vide Notification No. Kha. Ni.-2/Vidih-41/2006-245/M, dated 27.1.2018
No. Kha. Ni.-2/Vidih-41/2006-245/M, dated 27.1.2018 - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 23-C(1) and
Section 23-C(2) of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 (as amended in 2015), the
Government of Jharkhand hereby makes the following rules:-
1.
Short Title, Extent and Commencement.
Page 1/8
----- PAGE 2 -----
Jharkhand Minerals (Prevention of Illegal Mining, Transportation and Storage) Rules, 2017
- (i) These rules may be called "The Jharkhand Minerals (Prevention of Illegal Mining, Transportation and Storage)
Rules, 2017.
(ii)
It extends to the entire State of Jharkhand.
(iii)
It shall come into force on the date of notification.
2.
Definitions.
(1)
In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires:
(a)
"Act" means the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 (Act 67 of 1957) and as amended in time
to time;
(b)
"Collector" means "Deputy Commissioner" of the District.
(c)
"Competent Authority" means "Additional Chief Secretary, Principal Secretary, Secretary, Mines Commissioner and
Director, Mines appointed or authorized by the State Government";
(d)
"Competent Officer" means Deputy Commissioner of the district  and District/Assistant Mining Officer of the district or
any gazetted officer authorized by the Deputy Commissioner of the district;
(e)
"Carrier" means any mode or conveyance or facility by which mineral is transported from one place to another and
includes mechanized device, person, animal or cart;
(f)
"Dealer " means any person who is ;
(i)
Engaged in purchase, storage, sale, transportation and processing of mineral(s) anywhere in the State for commercial
gain through mineral based activity. However the purchaser utilizing the mineral for personal consumption shall be
exempted.
(ii)
Carrying out export/import of mineral(s)
(g)
"Dealer's registration" means a registration granted under these rules authorizing a person, to store and engage in the
transaction to buy or sell and transport of minerals defined in clause (k) below;
(h)
"Department" means Department of Industries, Mines and Geology, Government of Jharkhand ;
(i)
"Form" means "Prescribed Forms"
(j)
"Government" means State Government of Jharkhand;
(k)
JIMMS - means Jharkhand Integrated Mines 86 Mineral Management System under the Department of Industries,
Mines and Geology.
(l)
"Mineral" means, minerals of all types (except the atomic minerals in part B of schedule-1 of Mines and Minerals
(Development and Regulation) Act, 1957, and varieties including precious and semiprecious and un-cut stones and
minor minerals as specified in section 3(e) of the mines and minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957 (central
Act, 67 of 1957) as amended in time to time and Jharkhand Minor Mineral Concession Rule, 2004 and as amended time
to time for the purpose of these rules;
Explanation. - Any mineral shall remain a mineral by reason of being subjected to any process like crushing, burning,
Page 2/8
----- PAGE 3 -----
Jharkhand Minerals (Prevention of Illegal Mining, Transportation and Storage) Rules, 2017
breaking, drying, cutting, polishing, pulverizing, or any other procedure intended to make the mineral fit or suitable for
sale or consumption.
(m)
"Mines Commissioner" means Additional Chief Secretary, Principal Secretary, Secretary, Industries, Mines and Geology
Department, Government of Jharkhand or any other officer appointed or authorized as Mines Commissioner by the state
government.
(n)
"Notification" means a notification published by Government of Jharkhand;
(o)
"Permit" means permit granted under these rules;
(p)
"Transport Challan" means a challan issued by the officer authorized by the Government for lawful transportation of any
mineral raised in accordance with the provisions of the Act and the rules made their under by a carrier, which is issued
to a Mineral Dealer; and
(q)
"Year" means financial year.
(2)
Terms not defined in these rules will have the same meaning assigned to them under the Act or the rules framed there
under.
3.
Grant of Registration.
- (i) Any person desirous of being registered as dealer shall apply online through JIMMS Portal in Form as prescribed by
Department of Industries, Mines and Geology, Government of Jharkhand.
(ii)
Every applicant shall submit the following :-
(a)
A fee of Rs 25,000/- or an amount as notified from time to time by the Department of Industries, Mines 86 Geology
payable online through JIMMS Portal.
(b)
Self-attested copy of the following document as
a. PAN;
b. TAN;
c. GST Registration;
d. Aadhar; or
e. Company/firm Registration.
Department of Industries, Mines and Geology, Government of Jharkhand may add, subtract, mandate or relax any
document if so required to establish the identity of the dealer;
(c)
An Affidavit to this effect that he/she/they have not been convicted in any case relating to Illegal mining, Transportation,
Storage, Sale and Purchase of minerals;
(d)
Existing registered dealers as on the date of notification of these rules, have to re-apply with requisite documents to get
new registration without any additional fee within ninety days from notification of these rule.
Explanation. - If existing dealers do not register themselves under these rules within specified time, their registration will
be deemed to have lapsed automatically. Thereafter, if they desire, they will have to get themselves registered as a new
dealer.
4.
Processing and Disposal of Application.
- The officer in-charge of JIMMS or any such authorized officer by competent authority shall approve the application for
registration in prescribed form after due verification of application within 30 days. If the application is neither approved
nor rejected within thirty days, it will be deemed to have been approved. The registration number will be generated
Page 3/8
----- PAGE 4 -----
Jharkhand Minerals (Prevention of Illegal Mining, Transportation and Storage) Rules, 2017
automatically in JIMMS portal. Competent Authority/officer or any authorised officer for the purpose may get the
verification done subsequent to issuance of registration certificate.
If a person is holding a valid mining lease granted under the Mineral Concession Rules, 1960 or 2016 or JMMC Rule,
2004 & as amended time to time framed under the MM(DR) Act shall be exempted to register as a dealer for the same
lease and mineral. However he/she will be treated as deemed dealer for the purpose of these rules.
5.
Conditions.
- (i) The Dealer shall abide by all terms and conditions prescribed by Department of Industries, Mines and Geology,
Government of Jharkhand as mentioned in Dealers Registration Certificate.
(ii)
Dealers will have to register their mineral carrying carrier in JIMMS portal with their RFID/GPS or any other vehicle
tracking system within sixty days of getting dealer registration. Lessee, as deemed dealer under Rule-4, will also require
to register their mineral carrying carrier in JIMMS portal with RFID/GPS or any other vehicle tracking system within sixty
days of notification of this rule.
6.
Management Fees.
- (i) A management fee of Rupees one per ton of mineral despatched shall be paid by the mining lease holders which
will be deposited online through JIMMS portal. However, Department of Industries, Mines and Geology, Government of
Jharkhand may revise the management fee by a notification.
(ii)
The amount collected towards management fee may be provided from time to time in the expenditure budget of the
Department of Industries, Mines &, Geology under appropriate head of account. This fund shall be utilised to maintain
and strengthen the JIMMS and prevention of illegal mining, transportation and storage or for the purpose as may be
notified by the Department of Industries, Mines and Geology, Government of Jharkhand.
7.
Prohibition.
- No person other than a dealer or a mining lease holder shall buy or store or sell or offer for sale or engage in any
transaction of buying, selling, processing any mineral at any place or transport mineral for commercial gain without being
registered as a dealer.
8.
Suspension/Termination/De-Activation of Registration.
- (i) If a Dealer is found non-operative for a period of two years, the dealer registration will be de-activated automatically.
(ii)
Such de-activated Dealers' registration may be re-activated by filling an application in prescribed form along with a fee of
Rs. 5000 or as notified time to time by Department, online through JIMMS Portal.
(iii)
The District Mining Officer/Any such officer authorized by the Competent Authority may at any time suspend the
registration for breach of any of the terms and conditions of the Registration. The registration may be cancelled for
breach of any of the terms and conditions of registration after giving an opportunity of being heard.
9.
Transport Challan.
- (i) No person shall transport or otherwise remove or carry away any mineral from any place without obtaining a
transport challan duly generated through JIMMS. The Dealer desiring such challan should file an application online
through JIMMS portal in prescribed Form duly specifying all the particulars prescribed therein.
(ii)
The applicant shall upload the original copy of the royalty paid Transport Challan issued by the lessee to such Dealer or
the relevant documents showing payment of royalty on such mineral or other adequate proof of such payment.
(iii)
On receipt of an application under sub-rule (i), the The District Mining Officer/Any such officer authorized by the
Competent Authority shall communicate his approval/rejection within fifteen (15) days on the JIMMS portal for issuing
the Transport Challan in prescribed form for such period and subject to such terms and conditions as prescribed by him.
Page 4/8
----- PAGE 5 -----
Jharkhand Minerals (Prevention of Illegal Mining, Transportation and Storage) Rules, 2017
The District Mining Officer/Any such officer authorized by the Competent Authority may reject an application to grant
Transport Challan for reasons to be recorded in writing and communicated to the applicant through JIMMS Portal.
10.
Special Condition With Respect to Lease Holders.
- i. All dispatches of ores and minerals except those by aerial ropeway/conveyor belt by captive users shall be
accompanied by Transport Challan in the prescribed Form.
ii. Sampling and analysis will be done before the mineral/ore is removed from the mine site. The following procedure
shall be adhered to-
(a)
Mining Lessees after proper dressing, stacking, grading and analysis shall apply in prescribed form through JIMMS
portal to the District/Assistant Mining Officer, within whose jurisdiction the mine is situated, intimating his intention to
remove the mineral/ore enclosing copies of the analysis report in duplicate in prescribed Form and shall make payment
of royalty of the mineral and other charges through JIMMS portal.
(b)
Upon receipt of such application, District Mining Officer/Assistant Mining Officer shall verify or forward the same to
Mining Inspector/any other authorised officer for verification. After verification, verification report will be submitted on
JIMMS portal within 07 days of receipt of application. The District/Assistant Mining Officer shall allow/reject the same
within 15 days.
(c)
The verifying officer shall draw joint samples from the stacks of marginal grade and also from the stacks, grade of which
would appear to him different from that mentioned in the analysis reports. Joint samples shall be drawn by the Mining
Inspector/Verifying Officer and an authorized representative of the Mining Lessee and shall be divided into 3 part, of
which one part shall be handed over to the mining lessee under joint seals, the 2n1 part shall be sent to the Government
approved Laboratory for analysis under joint seals and 3"1 part shall be kept with District/Assistant Mining Officer under
joint seals as an umpire sample.
(d)
The analysis result of Government Laboratory would be final, provided that in case of dispute the Director may, if he is
satisfied with the genuineness of the dispute on written reference by the mining lessee, send the respective umpire
sample for analysis to another Government approved Laboratory and the report so given by the Laboratory shall be
final.
(e)
When minerals/ores are dispatched directly from the mine by railway wagons, joint samples shall be drawn from the
wagons and analysis report of each lot of four wagons or less as the case may be, shall be given:
Provided that no analysis report shall be necessary if the minerals/ores are declared to be of the highest grade. No
analysis shall also be required in respect of mineral/ores, i.e fireclay, quartzite etc. which do not have different grades for
royalty purpose.
iii. On receipt of the verification report from the Mining inspector, the District/Assistant Mining Officer shall approve/reject
the same as mentioned in Clause 10(ii)(b) above.
Provided that no dispatch shall be allowed in respect of the stacks from which joint samples have been drawn till the
analysis results are received from the Government Laboratory.
iv. Permit for the initial dispatch from a new mine shall not be allowed by the District/Assistant Mining Officer without
obtaining clearance from concerned Collector that permission for surface operation has been given and all formalities
regarding execution of lease arc complete.
v. (a) All transport of minerals/ores will normally pass through check-gate/weigh bridge  of the Department and /or
approved by the Department. The quantity moved will be verified through designated check-gate/weigh bridge. Where
there is no facility of weighment, the verification shall be done through volumetric measurement.
(b)
The working hours of each check gate shall be announced in advance by the District/Assistant Mining Officer and shall
be commensurate with the general requirement of the Mining traffic in that sector.
vi. (a) Whenever any mining lessee transports the minerals raised in his mine without any valid permits or challan, it will
be treated as a transgression of the conditions of these rules along with all other applicable Act and Rules.
Page 5/8
----- PAGE 6 -----
Jharkhand Minerals (Prevention of Illegal Mining, Transportation and Storage) Rules, 2017
(b)
The mining lessee shall be responsible for the strict compliance of these rules by the carriers engaged by them and shall
ensure that the carriers produce necessary transit challans at the check-gates/weigh bridge for verification.
11.
Search, Seizure and Confiscation.
- (i) The following officers are authorized to stop, check, search and verify at any place/truck/Other Vehicle carrying the
minerals/ore from the mine or other source or storage and seize the same as required within the jurisdiction as specified
below:
(i)
Additional Chief Secretary/Principal
Secretary/Secretary/Commissioner, Mines
In the entire State.
(ii)
Director of mines
In the entire State.
(iii)
Additional Director of mine
-do-
(iv)
Deputy Director of mine
Within their respective jurisdictions.
(v)
District Collector/Deputy Commissioner
Within their respective jurisdictions.
(vi)
District/Assistant Mining Officer
Within their respective jurisdictions.
(vii)
Sub Divisional Magistrate/Any other officer
authorized by the Collector
Within their respective
jurisdictions/Jurisdiction authorized by the collector in the
District
(viii)
Mining Inspector.
-do-
(ix)
In-charge Check-gate
-do-
It shall be the responsibility of the mining lessee/dealers to ensure that their carriers afford all assistance and
co-operation for such inspection.
(ii)
The dealer/lessee shall allow any competent authority/competent officer or any such officer authorized by competent
authority to inspect the place where mining, storage and processing unit exists to verify the stocks of ore and minerals
and take sample or the abstract from the records maintained by him.
(iii)
Every dealer shall allow competent authority/competent officer or any officer authorised by the Director,
Mines/Commissioner, Mines or Secretary, Department of Industries, Mines and Geology, Jharkhand to enter and inspect
the premises, where the mineral is kept or stored. Inspection of such documents as desired in writing and furnishing of
information as directed in writing shall be obligatory for such dealer.
(iv)
Page 6/8
----- PAGE 7 -----
Jharkhand Minerals (Prevention of Illegal Mining, Transportation and Storage) Rules, 2017
Every officer making a seizure, under these rules shall prepare a list of minerals, tools, equipment, vehicles or any other
article, so seized and deliver a copy thereof signed by him to the person found in possession of such minerals. Such
officer shall keep such seized property under proper custody with proper official seal and with detailed information.
(v)
Any minerals, tool, equipment, vehicle or any thing seized shall be liable to be confiscated by an order of the court of the
Deputy Commissioner of the concerned district and shall be disposed of in accordance with direction of such court.
12.
Custody of the Seized Property.
- The competent Officer shall keep the seized material or properties under the custody of an institution belonging to
Government or any responsible official of the Government as far as possible.
13.
Penalties.
- (i) Any person, who contravenes any of the provision of these rules, or buys or sells or store minerals except under and
in accordance with the terms and conditions of dealers registration or who transports the minerals except as mentioned
in the transport challan or transport minerals without transport challan shall be punishable as per provision made under
JMMC Rule, 2004 and as amended from time to time.
(ii)
Whoever intentionally obstructs the competent officer or any other officer in performing his duties under these rules,
shall be punishable with an imprisonment upto a term of one year or fine which may extend to Rs 25000/-or with both.
14.
Appeals.
- (i) Any person aggrieved by an order of the District/Assistant Mining Officer for a particular action under these rules
may prefer an appeal in prescribed form to the Deputy Commissioner within thirty (30) days from the date .of
communication of the order.
(ii)
Every application for an appeal shall be accompanied with a fee of Rs. 1000/- (Rupees One Thousand only) or an
amount as notified from time to time by the department to be deposited online through JIMMS.
(iii)
The appellate authority may, for sufficient reason to be recorded in writing, condone the delay in filling of appeals.
15.
Revision.
- (i) Any person aggrieved by an order passed in an appeal under these rules/ by an order passed by the Deputy
Commissioner under rule 11(v) may file an application for revision/appeal as the case may be before the Mines
Commissioner within Thirty (30) days from the date of communication of such order in prescribed Form
(ii)
Every revision/appeal application shall be accompanied with a fee of Rs. 1000/ (Rupees One Thousand only) or an
amount as notified from time to time by the department to be deposited online through JIMMS.
(iii)
The Mines Commissioner may, for sufficient reasons to be recorded in writing, condone the delay in submission of
revision/appeal application.
16.
Repeal and Saving.
- (i) On the commencement of these rules, the Jharkhand Mineral Transit Challan Regulation, 2005 and Jharkhand
Minerals Dealer Rule, 2007 shall cease to be in force with respect to all minerals for which the Jharkhand (Prevention of
Illegal Mining, Transportation and Storage) Rules, 2017 are applicable except as regards things, done or omitted to be
done before such commencement.
(ii)
On the commencement of these rules, with respect to the minerals to which these rules apply, any reference to
Jharkhand Mineral Transit Challan Regulation, 2005 and Jharkhand Mineral Dealer's Rule, 2007 in the rules made
under the Act or any other document shall be deemed to be replaced with the Jharkhand Minerals (Prevention of Illegal
Mining, Transportation and Storage) Rules, 2017, to the extent, it is not repugnant to the context thereof.
Page 7/8
----- PAGE 8 -----
Jharkhand Minerals (Prevention of Illegal Mining, Transportation and Storage) Rules, 2017
17.
Clarification.
- In any special case, the Department of Industries, Mines 86 Geology may issue clarification regarding these rules, if
necessary, in the interest of mineral development.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 8/8