
----- PAGE 1 -----
Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resett...
Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition,
Rehabilitation and Resettlement (Jharkhand Amendment) Act, 2017
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/108704143/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Jharkhand - Act
Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement (Jharkhand
Amendment) Act, 2017
JHARKHAND
India
Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement (Jharkhand
Amendment) Act, 2017
Act 07 of 2018
Published on 29 June 2018
Commenced on 29 June 2018
[This is the version of this document from 29 June 2018.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement (Jharkhand
Amendment) Act, 2017
(Jharkhand Act
No 07 of 2018
)
jh296
[Dated 29.6.2018.]
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resett...
An Act to Amend the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and
Resettlement Act, 2013 in its Application to the State of Jharkhand.
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Jharkhand in the sixty eighth year of the Republic of India as follows-
1.
Short title and Commencement.
(1)
This Act may be called the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and
Resettlement (Jharkhand Amendment) Act, 2017.
(2)
The Act shall be deemed to have come into effect on 1st January, 2014.
(3)
The provisions of this Amendment Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything contained in any Law or judgement or
Order of any Court or authority.
2.
Amendment to Section 2 Central Act 30 of 2013.
- In the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013
(hereinafter referred to as the Principal Act), in Section 2, in sub-section (2) after the second proviso, the following
proviso shall be added, namely:-
"Provided also that the acquisition of land for the projects listed in Section 10A and the purpose specified therein shall
be exempted from the provisions of the first proviso to this sub-section."
3.
Insertion of new Section 10A.
- In the Principal Act, after Chapter-III, the following new Chapter-IIIA shall be inserted:-
Chapter-IIIA Provisions of Chapter-II and III not to apply to certain projects
10A.
Power of the State Government to exempt certain project. - The State Government may, in the public interest by
notification in the Official Gazette, exempt any of the following project form the application of the provision of Chapter-II
and Chapter-III of this Act, namely:-
Government Infrastructure projects including Schools, Colleges, Universities, Hospitals, Panchayat Building, Anganbadi
Centres, Rail, Road, Waterways, electrification, irrigation, housing for the economically weaker section, water supply,
pipelines, Transmission and other Government Building for undertaking such projects advise of Gram Sabha/Local
Authority shall also be taken.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2