
----- PAGE 1 -----
Kerala Cashew Factories (Acquisition) Act, 1974
Kerala Cashew Factories (Acquisition) Act, 1974
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/11332395/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
17
]
State of Kerala - Act
Kerala Cashew Factories (Acquisition) Act, 1974
KERALA
India
Kerala Cashew Factories (Acquisition) Act, 1974
Act 29 of 1974
Published on 3 August 2015
Commenced on 3 August 2015
[This is the version of this document from 3 August 2015.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Kerala Cashew Factories (Acquisition) Act, 1974
(Act
No. 29 of 1974
)
Last Updated 22nd November, 2019
Act to provide for the acquisition, in the public interest, of certain cashew factories.
Whereas it is expedient, in the public interest to acquire certain cashew factories to prevent large scale unemployment
among the workers in the cashew industry and to provide employment to the workers who have been rendered
unemployed and to secure to them just conditions of service ;
Be it enacted in the Twenty-Fifth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
1.
Page 1/13
----- PAGE 2 -----
Kerala Cashew Factories (Acquisition) Act, 1974
Short title, extent and commencement.
(1)
This Act may be called the Kerala Cashew Factories (Acquisition) Act, 1974.
(2)
It extends to the whole of the State of Kerala .
(3)
It shall come into force at once.
2.
Definitions.
- In this Act. Unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"appointed day" means the date of publication of the declaration under Subsection (1) of section 3 [(or under sub-section
(1) of section 3A)]
[Added by Kerala Act No. 14 of 1995]
[or under section 3B]
[Added by Kerala Act No. 14 of 2010]
(b)
"Cashew factory" means a factory as defined in the Factories Act, wherein processing of cashewnuts is being carried on
and includes the factory building, the site thereof, and the buildings and lands appurtenant thereto used or necessary
for, or in connection with, the working of the factory ;
(c)
"Corporation" means the Kerala State Cashew Development Corporation Limited, incorporated under the Companies
Act. 1956 (Central Act 1 of 1956) ;
(d)
"Factories Act" means the factories Act, 1948 (Central Act 63 of 1948) ;
(dd)
"Federation" means the Kerala State Co-operative Marketing Federation ;
(e)
"occupier" means an occupier as defined in the Factories Act;
(f)
"prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this Act ;
(g)
"Processing", with reference to cashewnuts, includes extraction of cashwenut oil and roasting, shelling, peeling, grading
and treating of cashewnuts.
(h)
"Workers' Co-operative society" or Society" means a co-operative society registered under the Kerala Co-operative
Societies Act, 1969 (21 of 1969) and formed with the object of managing a cashew factory which has been closed down
or vested under this Act in the Government and of which at least ninety percent of the members are workmen within the
meaning of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (Central Act 14 of 1947) who have been immediately before the appointed
day, in the employment of the cashew factory.
3.
Order of acquisition.
(1)
The Government may, if they are satisfied-
(a)
that the occupier of a cashew factory does not conform to the provisions of law relating to safety, conditions of service or
fixation and payment of wages to the workers of the factory; or
(b)
that raw cashew nuts allotted to a cashew factory by the cashew Corporation of India are not being processed in the
factory to which allotment has been made or that such nuts are being transferred to any other cashew factory; or
(c)
Page 2/13
----- PAGE 3 -----
Kerala Cashew Factories (Acquisition) Act, 1974
[ that there has been large scale unemployment, other than by way of lay off or retrenchment, of the workers of a
cashew factory, or
[Inserted by Kerala Act No. 14 of 2010]
(d)
that the cashew factories possessed by the Kerala State Cashew Development Corporation either under a lease existing
or expired or under requisition current or expired and returned to their owners pursuant to any judgement, order or
decree of any court, tribunal or other authority or on the expiry of any contract or agreement, the employees/workers
therein may be rendered unemployed,
by order published in the Gazette, declare that that cashew factory shall stand transferred to, and vest in, the
Government:]
Provided that before making a declaration under this sub-section in respect of a cashew factory, the Government shall
give the occupier of the factory and the owner of the factory, where he is not the occupier, a notice of their intention to
take action under this sub-section and the grounds therefor and consider the objections that may be preferred in
pursuance of such notice.
Explanation. - For the purposes of this sub-section, the expressions "lay off" and "retrenchment" shall have the
meanings respectively assigned to them in the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (Central Act 14 of 1947).
(2)
The notice referred to in the provision to sub-section (1) shall also be published in two newspapers published in the
State of Kerala , and such publication shall be deemed to be sufficient notice to the occupier, to the owner where he is
not the occupier and to all other persons interested in the cashew factory.
(3)
On the making of a declaration under sub-section (1) the cashew factory to which the declaration relates, together with
all machinery, other accessories and other movable properties as where immediately before the appointed day in the
ownership, possession, power or control of the occupier in relation to the factory and all books of accounts, registers and
other documents relating thereto shall stand transferred to, and vest in the Government.
3A.
[ Power to acquire any cashew factory in public interest.
[Inserted by Kerala Act No. 14 of 1995]
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in section 3, if the Government are satisfied, in relation to a cashew factory, that it
has been closed for a period of not less than three months [prior to the date of coming into force of this Act or any day
thereafter] and such closure has pre-judicially affected the interest of the majority of the workers engaged in that factory
and that immediate action is necessary to restart the cashew factory and such restarting is necessary in the public
interest, they may by order published in the Gazette, declare, that the cashew factory shall stand transferred to, and vest
in, the Government:
Provided that no order under this sub-section shall be published unless the proposal for such acquisition is supported by
a resolution of the Legislative Assembly [which shall be passed within a period of six months from the. date of
publication of the order under sub-section (1) of this section]
[Added by Kerala Act No. 13 of 2015, dated 3.8.2015..]
.
[Explanation.
[Inserted by Kerala Act No. 13 of 2015, dated 3.8.2015..]
- The vesting in pursuance.of the order mentioned in sub-section (1) shall take effect on the date of publication of such
order.]
(2)
The provisions of sub-section (3) of section 3 and section 4 shall, as far as may be, apply to a declaration made under
sub-section (1), as they apply to a declaration made under sub-section (1) of section 3.
(3)
The provisions of section 7 to 16 (both inclusive) shall, as far as may be apply to, or in relation to, the cashew factory, in
respect of which a declaration has been made under sub-section (1), its occupier or Government, as the case may be,
as they apply to a cashew factory in relation to which a declaration has been made under sub section (1) of section 3.)]
Page 3/13
----- PAGE 4 -----
Kerala Cashew Factories (Acquisition) Act, 1974
3B.
[ Acquisition of Cashew Factories, which are in the possession of the Kerala State Cashew Development Corporation
(KSCDC) either under a lease existing or expired or under requisition current or expired.
[Inserted by Kerala Act No. 14 of 2010]
- Notwithstanding anything contained in section 3 or in any judgement, decree or order of any court, tribunal or other
authority and notwithstanding anything contained in any other law, agreement or other instrument for the time being in
force, if the Government are of opinion that the cashew factories specified in schedule II of this Act now in the
possession of Kerala State Cashew Development Corporation either under a lease existing or expired or under
requisition current or expired, if returned to their respective owners, they may not provide employment to the entire/any
of the employees/workers and such employees/workers may be rendered unemployed and in order to continue to
provide employment to such employees/workers the Government, may in public interest by order published in the
Gazette, declare that those factories shall stand transferred to, and vest in, the Government.]
4.
General effect to vesting under section 3.
- All property vesting in the Government under section 3 shall, by force of such vesting, be freed and discharged from
any trusts, obligations mortgages, charges, lien and other encumbrances affecting it, and any attachment, injunction or
any decree or order of court restricting the use of such property in any manner shall be deemed to have been
withdrawn.
5.
Inventory of properties.
(1)
An officer authorised by the Government in this behalf shall, after the service of the notice under the proviso to sub
section (1) of section 3 of the publication of that notice under sub-section (2) of that section (or after a resolution is
passed by the Legislative Assembly under sub-section (1) of section 3A) and before the publication of the declaration
under the said sub-section (1) prepare a complete inventory of all the properties of the cashew factory to which the
notice relates. as on the date of service of the said notice or the date of publication of that notice, as the case may be.
(2)
The offer referred to in sub-section (1) shall, for the purpose of preparing the inventory, have the power to enter the
premises of the cashew factory and to require the occupier or any person employed therein to furnish such information
as he deems necessary.
(3)
Any person who is required to furnish any information under sub-section (2) shall be bound to furnish such information
as is within his knowledge.
(4)
[ In the case of the Cashew Factories which are originally leased or requisitioned and now in the possession of Kerala
State Cashew Development Corporation, the inventory prepared originally shall be the inventory for all purposes.]
[Inserted by Kerala Act No. 14 of 2010]
6.
Property and assets not to be damaged or removed after service of notice.
- After the service of the notice under the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 3, or the publication of that notice under
sub section (2) of that section (or after a resolution is passed by the legislative Assembly under sub-section (1) of
section 3A.) the occupier or any other persons shall not commit any act which will diminished the value of the properties
and asset of the cashew factory to which the notice relates or remove any such property or assets from the premises of
the factory.
6A.
[ Acquisition of factories specified in Schedule III.
[Inserted by Kerala Act No. 13 of 2015, dated 3.8.2015..]
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in any judgment, decree or order of any court, tribunal or other authority and
notwithstanding anything contained in any other law, agreement or other instrument for the time being in force, it is
hereby declared that it is expedient in public interest that the cashew factories specified in Schedule III of this Act shall,
Page 4/13
----- PAGE 5 -----
Kerala Cashew Factories (Acquisition) Act, 1974
stand transferred to, and vest in; the Government with effect from the date noted against each:
Provided that such transfer shall be supported by a resolution of the Legislative Assembly which shall be passed within
a period of six months from the date of publication of the Kerala Cashew Factories (Acquisition) Amendment Act, 2015
in the Gazette.
(2)
The provisions of section 4, sections 7 to 16 (both inclusive) of the Act shall, as far as may be, apply to, or in relation to,
the cashew factory in relation to which a declaration has been made under sub-section (1) of section 3A.
(3)
For the removal of doubt it is hereby declared that the dates mentioned in the Schedule against each factory shall be the
'appointed day' in respect of that factory for the purposes of the Act.
(4)
All acts, proceedings or things done or taken by the Government or any officer or authority in respect of cashew
factories mentioned in the Schedule III including all the orders issued under sub-section (I) of section 8 during the
periods commencing on and from the dates noted against each and ending with the date of publication of the Kerala
Cashew Factories (Acquisition) Amendment Act, 2015 in the Gazette, shall, for all purposes be and shall be deemed
always to have been as valid and effective as if the amendments made to the Act by the said amendment Act had been
in force at all material times.]
7.
Duty to deliver possession of property acquired and documents relating thereto.
(1)
Where any property has vested in the Government under this Act, every person in whose possession or custody or
under whose control and property may be, shall deliver the property to the Government forthwith.
(2)
The Government may take or cause to be taken all necessary steps for securing possession of the properties which
have vested in the Government under this Act, and, for this purpose, the Government may use such force as they deem
necessary.
8.
Power of Government to direct vesting of cashew factory in the Corporation.
- Notwithstanding anything contained in section 3, the Government may, by order in writing;-
(a)
direct that a cashew factory vested in this under this Act shall, instead of continuing to vest in the Government, vest in
the Corporation with effect from such date (not being a date earlier than the appointed day) as may be specified in the
order; or
(b)
entrust a cashew factory vested in them under this Act to the Federation or to a workers co-operative society or to any
other institution approved by the Government in this behalf for management for such period and on such terms and
conditions as may be specified in the order.
(2)
Where an order vesting a cashew factory in the Corporation is made under sub-section (i), all the rights liabilities and
obligat6ions of the Government in relation to such factory shall, on and from the date of such vesting, be deemed to
have become the rights, liabilities and obligations respectively of the Corporation.
9.
Payment of amount.
(1)
The occupier of every cashew factory which is acquired under this Act shall be paid by the government an amount which
shall be determined in accordance with the principles specified in the Schedule:
Provided that where the occupier is not, the owner of the cashew factory, such owner shall be entitled to such portion of
the amount as may be determined by the District Court under sub section (5).
(2)
The amount payable under sub-section (1) shall be determined by the District Collector within a period of three months
from the appointed day.
Page 5/13
----- PAGE 6 -----
Kerala Cashew Factories (Acquisition) Act, 1974
(3)
Where there is dispute as to the amount determined by the District Collector, or where there are more persons than one
claiming to be entitled to the amount, the District Collector shall refer the matter for the determination of the District
Court within whose jurisdiction the cashew factory is situate.
(4)
A reference under sub-section (3) shall be in such form, shall contain such particulars and shall be accompanied by
such documents, as may be prescribed.
(5)
On receipt of a reference under sub-section (3), the District Court shall, after such inquiry as it deems necessary, pass
an order determining the amount payable under sub-section (1) or apportioning the amount among the persons entitled
thereto.
(6)
Every secured debt due from the owner or occupier of a cashew factory vested in the Government or the Corporation
under this Act shall have priority over all other debts and shall be paid in accordance with the rights and interests of the
secured creditors.
(7)
The amount determined in accordance with the foregoing provisions shall be paid to the person or persons entitled
thereto in cash within a period of six months from the date of such determination:
Provided that if the amount is not paid within the period aforesaid, the Government shall pay interest on the amount at
the rate of four per cent per annum from the date of expiry of the said period.
(8)
[ Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force or any judgment, order or decree
passed by any court, tribunal or authority, where the occupier or owner of a cashew factory has accepted the amount
determined in accordance with the provisions herein contained, the cashew factory shall be deemed to have been
conveyed to the Government by means of execution of a conveyance as defined in section 54 of the Transfer of
Property Act, 1882 (Central Act 4 of 1882) and accordingly the right, title and interest of the occupier or owner shall
stand extinguished upon the date of receipt of the compensation.
(9)
If the conveyance referred to in sub-section (8) has taken place, the Government shall not be obliged to give
possession, right and title of the factory back to the owners/occupiers.]
[Inserted by Kerala Act No. 13 of 2015, dated 3.8.2015..]
10.
Employment of certain employees to continue.
(1)
Every person who is a workman within the meaning of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (Central Act 14 of 1947), and
has been, immediately before the appointed day, in the employment of a cashew factory vested under this Act in the
Government or the Corporation, as the case may be, shall become, on and from the appointed day, an employee of the
Government, or as the case may be, of the Corporation and shall hold office or service in the cashew factory on the
same terms and conditions and with the same rights to pension, gratuity and other matters as would have been
admissible to him if such cashew factory had not been transferred to, and vested in, the Government or the Corporation,
as the case may be and continue to do so unless and until his employment in such cashew factory is duly terminated or
until his remuneration, terms and conditions of employment are duly altered, by the Government or the Corporation, as
the case may be.
(2)
The Government or the Corporation, as the case may be, in which a cashew factory has vested under this Act, may
employ on mutually acceptable terms and conditions, any person who is not a workman within the meaning of the
Industrial Disputes Act 1947 (Central Act 14 of 1947) and who has been immediately before the appointed day, in the
employment of such cashew factory and on such employment and said person shall become an employee of the
Government or the Corporation, as the case may be.
(3)
Save as otherwise provided in sub-sections (1) and (2) the services of every person who is on the appointed day, an
Page 6/13
----- PAGE 7 -----
Kerala Cashew Factories (Acquisition) Act, 1974
employee of a cashew factory vested in the Government or the Corporation under this Act shall stand terminated on and
from such date as may be specified by the Government.
(4)
Where, under the terms of any contract of service or otherwise any person whose service becomes terminated or whose
service becomes transferred to the Government or the Corporation by reason of the provisions of this Act, is entitled to
any payment by way of gratuity or retirement benefits or for any leave not availed of, or any other benefits, such person
may enforce his claim against the occupier of the cashew factory but not against the Government or the Corporation.
10A.
Continuance of Employees where cashew factory is entrusted to the Federation or to a workers' co-operative society or
to an institution for management.
(1)
Where a cashew factory vested under this Act in the Government has been entrusted to the Federation or to any other
institution approved by the Government in this behalf under sub-section (1) of section 8 for management, every person
who is a workman within the meaning of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (Central Act 14 of 1947), and has been
immediately before the appointed day in the employment of the cashew factory, shall become, on and from the date on
which the cashew factory, is so entrusted for management, an employee of the Federation or, as the case may be, of
the institution and shall hold office or service in the cashew factory on the same terms and conditions and with the same
rights as to pension, gratuity and other matters as would have been admissible to him if such cashew factory had not
been transferred to, and vested in, the Government and continue to do so unless and until his employment in such
cashew factory is duly terminated or until his remuneration, terms and conditions of employment are duly altered, by the
Federation or the institution, as the case may be.
(2)
Notwithstanding anything contained in section 10 or in any other law for the time being in force, where a cashew factory
vested under this Act in the Government has been entrusted to a workers co-operative society under sub-section (1) of
section 8 for management, only such of those persons who are workmen within the meaning of the Industrial Disputes
Act, 1947 (Central Act 14 of 1947), and have been, immediately before the appointed day, in the employment of the
cashew factory and who become members of the worker's co-operative society to which the management has been so
entrusted shall be eligible for employment in the cashew factory.
(3)
Every person who is eligible for employment under sub-section (2) in a cashew factory vested under this Act in the
Government and is entrusted to a workers' cooperative society for management, shall become, on and from the date on
which the cashew factory is so entrusted to the society for management or the date on which he becomes a member of
such society, whichever is later, an employee of the society and shall, hold office or service in the cashew factory on
such remuneration, terms and conditions of employment as may be determined by the society.
(4)
The federation or a workers' co-operative society or any institution to which the management of a cashew factory vested
under this Act in the Government is entrusted under sub-section (1) of section 8, may employ on mutually acceptable
terms and conditions any person who is not a workman within the meaning of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 (Central
Act 14 of 1947) and who has been, immediately before the appointed day, in the employment of such cashew factory
and on such employment the said person shall become an employee of the Federation or the society or the institution,
as the case may be.
(5)
Where the management of a cashew factory vested under this Act in the Government is entrusted to the Federation or
to a workers' co-operative society or to any other institution for management under sub-section (1) of section 8, any
person whose service becomes terminated or who becomes an employee of the Federation or the society or the
institution by reason of the provisions of this section, is entitled to any payment by way of gratuity or retirement benefits
or for any leave not availed of, or any other benefits, prior to the appointed day, such person may enforce his claim
against the occupier of the cashew factory immediately before the appointed day but not against the Government or the
Federation or the society or the institution.
(6)
Notwithstanding anything contained in the Industrial Disputes Act ,1947 (Central Act 14 of 1947), or in any other law for
Page 7/13
----- PAGE 8 -----
Kerala Cashew Factories (Acquisition) Act, 1974
the time being in force, any person whose service becomes terminated of whose terms and conditions of employment
have been altered in pursuance of the provisions of this section, shall not be entitled to any compensation under this Act
or under any other law for the time being in force and no such claim shall be entertained by any court tribunal or other
authority.)
11.
Provident fund.
(1)
Where a cashew factory has established a provident fund for the benefit of its employees, the moneys relatable to the
employees, who services have become transferred, by or under this Act,  (to the Government or the Corporation or the
Federation or a workers' co-operative society or an institution, shall, out of the moneys standing, on the appointed day,
to the credit of such provident fund, stand transferred to, and vest in, the Government or the Corporation or the
Federation or the workers' co-operative society or the institution, as the case may be.)
(2)
The moneys which stand transferred, under sub-section (1), to the Government or the Corporation or the Federation or a
workers' co-operative society or an institution shall be dealt with by the Government or the Corporation or the Federation
or the workers' co-operative society or the institution, as the case may be in such manner as may be prescribed.)
12.
Superannuation, welfare and other funds.
- Where a superannuation, welfare or other fund has been established for the benefit of the employees whose services
stand transferred to the Government or the Corporation  (or the Federation or a workers cooperative society) under this
Act, the cashew factory, by which such employees were employed, shall distribute the amount due to each employee as
if the employee had superannuated, or his services with the cashew factory had terminated, on the day immediately
preceding such date as may be specified by the Government in this behalf.
13.
Penalties.
(1)
Any person who -
(a)
fails to furnish any information which he is bound to furnish under sub-section (3) of section 5 or furnishes any such
information which he knows or has reason to believe to be false; or
(b)
contravenes the provisions of section 6; or
(c)
having in his possession, custody or control any property forming part of a cashew factory in respect of which a
declaration under section 3 has been made, wrongfully withholds such property from the Government; or
(d)
wrongfully obtains possession of any property forming part of a cashew factory which has vested in the Government
under this Act,shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year, or with fine, or with
both:Provided that the court trying any offence under clause (c) or clause (d) may, at the time of convicting the accused
person, order him to deliver up within a time to be fixed by the court any property wrongfully withheld or obtained.
(2)
No court shall take cognizance of an offence punishable under this section except with the previous sanction of the
Government or an officer authorised by the Government in this behalf.
14.
Offences by companies.
(1)
Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a company, every person who at the time the offence was
committed was in charge of, and was responsible to, the company for the conduct of the business of the company as
well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly:
Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable to any punishment, if he proves
Page 8/13
----- PAGE 9 -----
Kerala Cashew Factories (Acquisition) Act, 1974
that the offence was committed without his knowledge or that he had exercised all due diligence to prevent the
commission of such offence.
(2)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) where any offence under this Act has been committed by a
company and it is proved that the offence has been committed with the consent or connivance of, or is attributable to
any neglect on the part of any director, manager, secretary or other officer of the company such director, manager,
secretary or other officer shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly.
Explanation. - For the purposes of this section,-
(a)
"company" means any body corporate and includes a firm or other association of individuals; and
(b)
"director", in relation to a firm, means a partner in the firm. (the Federation or a workers co-operative Society of an
institution)
15.
Protection of action taken in good faith.
(1)
No suit prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the Government or the Corporation or any officer or other
employee of the Government or the Corporation  (the Federation or a Worker's C0-operative society or an institution) for
anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done under this Act.
(2)
No suit or other legal proceeding shall lie against the Government or the Corporation or  (the Federation or a workers
co-operative society or an institution) any officer or other employee of the Government or the Corporation  (the
Federation or a workers co-operative society or an institution) for any damage caused or likely to be caused by anything
which is in good faith done or intended to be done under this Act.
16.
Power to make rules.
(1)
The Government may, by notification in the Gazette, make rules to carry out the provisions of this Act.
(2)
Every rule made under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before the Legislative Assembly while it
is in session for a total period of fourteen days which may be comprised in one session or in two successive sessions
and if, before the expiry of the session in which it is so laid or the session. immediately following, the Legislative
Assembly makes any modification in the rule or decides that the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have
effect only in such modified from or be of no effect, as the case may be, so however that any such modification or
annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule.
17.
Repeal and saving.
(1)
The Kerala Cashew Factories (Acquisition) Ordinance, 1974 (8 of 1974), is hereby repealed.
(2)
Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken under the said Ordinance shall be deemed to have
been done or taken under this Act as if this Act has commenced on the 28th day of June, 1974.
The Schedule I
(See Section 9)
Principles for determining amount payable for acquisition of cashew factories
Paragraph I
The amount to be paid by the Government for the acquisition of a cashew factory shall be the sum total of the value of
the properties and assets of the factory existing on the appointed day, calculated in accordance with the provisions of
Paragraph. II.
Paragraph II
Page 9/13
----- PAGE 10 -----
Kerala Cashew Factories (Acquisition) Act, 1974
(a)
(i)
In respect of any land which was part of the factory at the time of establishment of the factory, the value of such land at
the time of establishment of the factory ;
(ii)
In respect of any land acquired by the owner or occupier for the purposes of the factory subsequent to the establishment
of the factory, the value of such land at the time of such acquisition;
(b)
The cost of any buildings at the time of construction minus depreciation at the rate of 5 per cent per annum subject to a
maximum of 50 per cent depreciation;
(c)
The actual cost of acquiring any plant, machinery or other equipment which has not been worked or used and the written
down value (determined in accordance with the provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961) of any other plant, machinery or
other equipment, provided that such written down value shall not be be less than 25 per cent of the actual cost of
acquiring such plant, machinery or other equipment.
[Schedule II]
[Added by Kerala Act No. 14 of 2010]
(See section 3B)
Sl. No.
Reg. No. of the cashew factory
Name, description and details of cashew
factory
Name and address of the owner
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
1
Reg. No. AP. 10
Fy. No. 4, Krishnapuram,Kayamkulam, located atKrishnapuram Village,Karthikapally Taluk,Alleppey Dist., taken
overon lease on 1-3-1971
Shri S. Ramachandra Naik,23-2002 Kadri TempleRoad, Mangalore.
2
Reg. No. K.U. 2
Fy. No. 5, Mynagappally,Karunagappally located
atMynagappally Village,Karunagappally Taluk,Kollam Dist.,
taken overon lease on 15-3-1971
Smt. K. Devayani Amma,Jupitor Cashew Co.,Kochupilammoodu, Kollam.
3
Reg. No. K.T. 72
Fy. No. 7, Nooranadu,Kayamkulam located atNooranadu Palamel Village,Mavelikkara Taluk, AlleppeyDist.,
taken over on leaseon 11-5-1971
T. G Walter, MammikunnuBunglow, Mundakkal,
Kollam.
4
Reg. No. KU. 78
Fy. No. 8, Puthoor, KollamLocated at
PavithreswaramVillage, Kollam Taluk, KollamDistrict., taken
over onlease on 12-5-1971
S. Ramachandra Naik; 23-2002 Kadri Temple Road,Mangalore.
5
Page 10/13
----- PAGE 11 -----
Kerala Cashew Factories (Acquisition) Act, 1974
Reg. No. Q. 1
Fy. No. 9, Kilimanoor,Trivandrum located atPazhayakunnummel Village,Chirayinkeezh Taluk, TrivandrumDist.,
taken over on leaseon 3-6-1971
Smt. Devayani Amma, JupitorCashew Co.,
Kochupilammoodu,Kollam.
6
Reg. No. KU. 64
Fy. No. 11, Edamulakkal,Edamulakkal Village,Pathanapuram Taluk,Kollam Dist., taken overon lease on
14-4-1971
M/s Ramsons &Co., Kollam-4.
7
Reg. No. Q. 55
Fy. No. 12, Chathannoor,Meenadu Village,
KollamTaluk, Kollam Dist., takenover on lease on 16-8-1971
Badarudeen Musaliar,Kandannachalil House,Kilikolloor, Kollam-4.
8
Reg. No. KU. 36
Fy. No. 14, - Bharanikkavu,Sasthamcottah
Village,Kunnathoor Taluk, KollamDist., taken overon lease on
9-2-1972
Smt. Umaiban Beevi,Kambikettle Veedu,Kilikolloor, Kollam.
9
Reg. No. KU. 41
Fy. No. 16, Adinadu,Kulasekharapuram Village,Karunagappally Taluk,Kollam Dist., taken overon lease on
7-2-1972
Smt. B. Leela,Padmalayam,Uliyacovil, Kollam.
10
Reg. No. KU. 53
Fy. No. 20, Elampalloor,Elampalloor Village,Kollam Taluk, KollamDist., taken over onlease on 14-2-1972
K. Mydeen Kunju &Sons, KuthirapanthiyilBunglow, Thevally, Kollam.
11
Reg. No. KU. 70
Fy. No. 22, Nedumpaikulam,Ezhukone Village,
KollamTaluk, Kollam Dist., takenover on lease on 28-2-1972
K. Suresh, ManagingPartner, Shanmughavilas,Kilikolloor, Kollam.
12
Reg. No. KT. 71
Fy. No. 24, Karimulakkal,Chunakkara Village,
MavelikkaraTaluk, Alleppey Dist., taken overon lease on
18-5-1972
T. G Walter, MammikunnuBunglow,
Kochupilammoodu,Kollam.
13
Reg. No. KU. 88
Fy. No. 26, Thettikuzhy,Thazhuthala Village,
Kollam Taluk,Kollam District, takenover on lease on 11-3-1974
Smt. Ummasalummal,Kuruttazhikathu Veedu,Umayanalloor, Kollam.
14
Reg. No. Q. 95
Fy. No. 27, Eravipuram,Eravipuram Village,
KollamTaluk, Kollam Dist., takenover on lease on 13-3-1974
Page 11/13
----- PAGE 12 -----
Kerala Cashew Factories (Acquisition) Act, 1974
M/s Ramsons & Co.,Kollam-4.
15
Reg. No. Q. 96
Fy. No. 28, Parippally,Parippally Village,
KollamTaluk, Kollam Dist., takenover on lease on 13-3-1974
M/s Ramsons & Co., Kollam-4.
16
Reg. No. KU. 86
Fy. No. 29, Paruthumpara,Mulavana and Ezhukone
Village,Kollam Taluk, Kollam Dist.,taken over on lease on
11-3-1974
M/s M. P. Govindan &Sons, Kollam-4.
17
Reg. No. KU. 158
Fy. No. 30, Kunnathoor,Kunnathoor Village,
KunnathoorTaluk, Kollam Dist., takenover on lease on 21-3-1974
G. Bhanu Asan, Vishnu Nivas,Pattathanam,
Kollam.
Present:Sushamma, Sitaram,Acharandil House,
Pattathanam,Kollam.
18
Reg. No. Q. 31
Fy. No. 32, Kanjamkadu,Kollam Corporation,
KollamTaluk, Kollam Dist., takenover on lease on 23-3-1974
Smt. Rajeswari, W/oGovindaraja Reddiyar, RajiNivas, N.A.N.R. Compound,Main Road, Kollam.
19
Reg. No. Q. 243
Fy. No. 33, Kadakkal,Kadakkal Village,
KottarakkaraTaluk, Kollam Dist., takenover on lease on
29-4-1974
Smt. B. Jalaja Kumari,Bhaskara, Temple Lane,Medical College P. O.,Ulloor, Trivandrum.
20
Reg. No. KU. 9
Fy. No. 34, Chengamanadu,Melila Village,
KottarakkaraTaluk, Kollam Dist., takenover on lease on
13-6-1974
Smt. Rajeswari, W/oGovindaraja Reddiyar, RajiNivas, N.A.N.R. Compound,Main Road, Kollam.
[Schedule III]
[Inserted by Kerala Act No. 13 of 2015, dated 3.8.2015..]
(See Section 6A)
SI. No.
Reg. No. of the factory
Name, description and details of factories
Date from which it is vested in Government
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
1
K.U.28
M/s Grand Cashew Corporation, Chengamanad,
Page 12/13
----- PAGE 13 -----
Kerala Cashew Factories (Acquisition) Act, 1974
located at Melila Village, Kottarakkara Taluk, Kollam District.
11-5-1984
2
K.U.96
M/s K. A. Karim & Sons, Kilikolloor,
located at Kilikolloor Village, Kollam Taluk, Kollam District.
11-5-1984
3
Q.38
M/s P.K. Damodar Cashew Company, Eravipuram,
located at Eravipuram Village, Kollam Taluk, Kollam District.
27-7-1984
4
Q.97
M/s Quilon Exports, Chathannoor, located at
Chathannoor Village, Kollam Taluk, Kollam District.
27-7-1984
5
Q.150
M/s Dhanalekshmi Exports, Navaikulam, located
at Navaikulam Village, Chirayinkil Taluk, Thiruvananthapuram
District.
27-7-1984
6
K.U.59
M/s Rajasree Exports Enterprises, Perinadu,
located at Perinadu Village, Kollam Taluk, Kollam District.
27-7-1984
7
K.U.207
M/s Viswanath Cashew Factory, Chathinamkulam,
located at Kilikolloor Village, Kollam Taluk, Kollam District
8-2-1985
8
K.U.185
M/s Dalmia International, Perumpuzha, located
at Kottamkara Village Kollam Taluk, Kollam District.
8-2-1985
9
A.P.9
M/s Standard Cashew Industries, Pathiyoor,
located at Pathiyoor Village, Karthikappally Taluk, Alappuzha
District.
25-4-1985
10
A.P. 11
Rajmohan Cashew Limited, Eruva, located at
Eruva, Kayamkulam in Karthikappally Taluk, Alappuzha District.
11-6-1986
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 13/13