
----- PAGE 1 -----
The M.P. Registration Rules, 1939
The M.P. Registration Rules, 1939
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/114619002/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Madhya Pradesh - Act
The M.P. Registration Rules, 1939
MADHYA PRADESH
India
The M.P. Registration Rules, 1939
Rule THE-M-P-REGISTRATION-RULES-1939 of 1939
Published on 12 December 1939
Commenced on 12 December 1939
[This is the version of this document from 12 December 1939.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The M.P. Registration Rules, 1939
Published vide Notification No. 1618/R, dated 12-12-1939
Part I ? Preliminary
1.
Short title.
- These rules may be called the Madhya Pradesh Registration Rules, 1939.
2.
Definitions.
- In these rules, unless is anything repugnant in the subject or context :-
(i)
[ "The Act" means the Registration Act, 1908, and a reference, made to any Act shall be deemed to mean, for the
Page 1/47
----- PAGE 2 -----
The M.P. Registration Rules, 1939
purpose of Berar, a reference to such Act as applied to Berar unless such meaning is, on the face of it, inapplicable;
[Amended by Notification No. 2456-III-85, dated 6-5-1985.]
(ii)
"Registering Officer" includes a Registrar, Sub-Registrar and Joint Sub-Registrar appointed under the Act;
(iii)
"Registration Office" includes the office of Registrar, Sub-Registrar and Joint Sub-Registrar.]
Part II ? 3. Presentation endorsement.
- On the Presentation of a document for registration, the registering office shall forthwith, in this own hand, make on it an
endorsement in Form I of Appendix A.
4.
Examination of stamp duty.
- The Registering Officer shall next examine the document and ascertain whether it is "duly stamped", i.e. whether it is
stamped with a stamp of the value and description required by the law in force in India when such instrument was
executed, or if several persons have executed the instrument at different times, when such instrument was first
executed, vide Section 2 (6) and 2 (11) of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899.
5.
[
[Substituted, by Notification No. 10-1-III-87-90, dated 20-7-1990.]
When an instrument of sale (including certificate of sale) gift or usufructuary mortgage affecting immovable property
situated within the limits of any Municipality or Municipal Corporation or Block is presented for registration, it is the duty
of the Registering Officer to satisfy himself that the stamp duty paid on it is sufficient to cover the duty payable under the
Indian Stamp Act, 1899 (Articles 23, 33 and 40 (a) of Scheduled I-A) and the additional duty payable under Section 161
of the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1961 (
No. 37 of 1961
), Section 133-A of the Madhya Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act, 1956 (No. XXIII of 1956) and Section 68 of the
Madhya Pradesh Panchayat Act, 1981 (No. 35 of 1981).]
5A.
[
[Inserted by Notification No. 10-1-III-87-90, dated 20-7-1990.]
When an instrument of sale, gift, lease for a period of 30 years or more or usufructuary mortgage of vacant land and
land .used for purpose of agriculture is presented for registration, it is the duly of the registering officer to satisfy himself
that the Stamp Duty paid on it is sufficient to cover the duty payable under the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 and cess payable
under Section 9 (1) of the Madhya Pradesh Upkar Adhiniyam, 1981 (No. 1 of 1982).]
6.
Impounding or returning of documents not duly stamped.
- If a registering officer considers that a document presented for registration is not "duly stamped" he shall impound the
document and forward it to the Collector, endorsing on it the date and the fact of his doing so ;
[Provided that, any such instrument not being a Bill of Exchange or a Promissory Note shall be registered or be
authenticated on the payment of duly with which the same is chargeable, or in the case of an instrument insufficiently
stamped, of the amount required to make up such duty in accordance with clause (f) of proviso to Section 35 of the
Indian Stamp Act, 1899 in its application to the State of Madhya Pradesh :
Provided further that, if the Registering Officer has reason to believe that the market value of the property which is the
subject matter of such instrument has not been truly set forth in the instrument, he may after registering such instrument,
refer the same to the Collector for determination of the market value of such property and the proper duly payable
thereon.]
[Inserted by Notification No. 10-1-III-87-90, dated, 20-7-1990.]
7.
If the document is liable to advalorem duty, under the Indian Stamp Act, 1899, and the value or consideration is either
not stated in money or only partly so stated, the provisions of Sections 27 and 64 of the said Act shall be made known to
the persons who presented it and he shall be informed in writing by an endorsement on the back of the document in
Form 2 of Appendix A, that he may, if he chooses, withdraw, and complete the document by the addition of the required
Page 2/47
----- PAGE 3 -----
The M.P. Registration Rules, 1939
particulars, under the signature or initials of the executant, if he declines to do so, the matter shall be reported to the
Collector and further proceedings shall be stayed.
8.
If a document requiring stamp under the Court Fees Act, 1870, is, in the opinion of the Registering Officer, improperly
stamped, it shall be returned to the person presenting it and not impounded, in order that it may he properly stamped,
vide Sections 6 and 28 of that Act.
9.
Note of suspension in minute book.
- When proceedings are suspended under Rule 6, 7 or 8, a note shall be made in the minute book (Form 9 of Appendix
B), and, if the document is returned to the person presenting it, the reasons for this shall be endorsed on it.
10.
Effect of impounding or returning of documents on presentation.
- Presentation, when once made, is not annulled by the impounding of the document, or by its return to the person who
presented it, or by its removal to a Court as a piece of evidence, provided that the presentation was made in the proper
office by a competent person.
11.
Procedure on return of impounded documents.
- When a document is returned by the Collector to the Registering Officer after validation, a notice of its receipt bearing a
service stamp shall be sent to the presenter, but if the presenter happens to be the executant, notices shall be issued to
both the executant and the claimant. On his or their appearance, the proceedings shall be resumed at the stage at which
they were suspended, due regard being had to the provisions of Section 34 of the Act.
12.
Place of presentation of a document.
- If the stamp appears correct, or when the proper stamp duty has been made good, the Registering Officer shall next
see whether, under Sections 28, 29 and 30 (1) of the Act, the document can be registered in his office.
13.
Presentation by a wrong party or in wrong office.
- If the original presentation of a document for registration is made by a wrong party or in a wrong office and if the
mistake be detected before the document is admitted to registration, the presentation shall be treated as a nullity and
the Registering Officer shall return the document for being represented by the proper persons or in the proper office
after making a note to that effect in the minute book and an endorsement on the document in Form 3 of Appendix A.
Such return is no bar to the acceptance of the document for registration and to its being dealt with as provided by law, if
the representation is made within the prescribed time.
14.
Registrars and Headquarters Sub-Registrars to accept all documents presented to them for registration.
- Except for good and sufficient reasons to be recorded in the minute book, a Registrar, or a Headquarters
Sub-Registrar empowered to register documents under Section 30 (1) of the Act shall accept all documents, which might
be registered by any Sub-Registrar subordinate to him, presented to him for registration and shall not direct persons to
resort to Sub-Registrars; but every person presenting such a document shall at once be informed of the extra or
additional fee payable for registration by a Registrar or Headquarters Sub-Registrar. Where, however the document
presented for registration is will or authority to adopt, or where it relates to a transaction in which the Sub-Registrar is
interested, or where it is written in a language with which the Sub-Registrar is not acquainted, the District Registrar or
Headquarters Sub-Registrar acting under Section 30 (1) of the Act accept such document for registration without
charging the extra or additional fee otherwise payable.
15.
Persons competent to present.
- If the Registering Officer finds that he has authority to accept the document for registration, he shall next ascertain
whether it has been presented by a competent person (Sections 32 and 40 of the Act), and, if he finds that it has not
been so presented, procedure laid down in Rule 13 shall be followed.
16.
Time-limit for presentation.
Page 3/47
----- PAGE 4 -----
The M.P. Registration Rules, 1939
- The Registering Officer shall also ascertain whether the presentation of the document has been made within the time
prescribed by Section 23, 23-A, 24 or 26 of the Act. If the document is presented after the period prescribed by Section
23, 23-A or 24 of the Act, the Registering Officer shall advise the presenter to file an application for an extension of time
under Section 25 of the Act. Such application, when received, shall forthwith be forwarded to the Registrar, and the
proceedings shall be suspended pending receipt of order thereon. If, however, the document has been presented after
the extreme period of limitation (eight months) has expired, registration shall be refused at once.
Note:-(1) The time limit prescribed in Section 26 for the presentation of documents executed out of India cannot be
extended under Section 25.
(2)
A will may be presented for registration at any time, vide Section 27.
17.
[
[Substituted by Notification No. 10-1-III-87-90, dated 20-7-1990.]
If the presentation of document satisfies the essential conditions in Rules 4 to 16 its contents shall next be examined in
detail in order to discover whether the requirements of Sections 20, 21 and 22 of the Act in regard to erasures,
alterations, description of the property etc. have been complied with, the executants shall also be required to make a
note of the erasures, etc. at the foot of the document stating the line and word which have been altered, added or
erased. The note so made shall be attested by all the executants. If they have not been complied with Registering
Officer shall proceed as in Rule 19.]
18.
(1)
In all areas to which a settlement survey has been extended, lands shall, for the purpose of Section 21 of the Act, be
described by reference to the Government Settlement survey map (viz. khasra or survey number, sub-division number, if
any, area and rental value or Government assessment). [The part of a Khasra Number/Sub Number shall be described
by reference to the boundaries and sketch plan specifying the portion giving sufficient details to mark that piece of land
on the spot.]
[Inserted by Notification No. 10-1 -III-87-90, dated, 20-7-1990.]
(2)
[ Omitted.]
[Omitted by Notification No. 10-1-III-87-90, dated, 20-7-1990.]
19.
Return of documents for correction etc.
- The following documents may be returned for amendment, correction, or supply of omissions :-
(a)
A document which is not in a language commonly used in the district, is not understood by the Registering Officer, and
is unaccompanied by a true translation and a true copy, as required by Section 19 of the Act.
(b)
A document which is illegible or is in a character other than the ordinary character of the language purporting to be used
in the district and is unaccompanied by a true transliteration into the ordinary character of the language and by a true
copy.
(c)
A document which contains an interlineation, blank, erasure or alteration which has not been attested with the signature
or initials of the person executing the document, as required by Section 20 of the Act.
(d)
A document in which the description of immovable property is not sufficient for the identification of such properly, as
required by Section 21 of the Act.
(e)
A document in which land is not described in accordance with the instructions contained in Rule 18 when a survey has
been extended to the land or a record of rights has been prepared for the land.
(f)
A document which contains a map or plan of which no copy has been filed, as required by Section 21 (4) of the Act.
Page 4/47
----- PAGE 5 -----
The M.P. Registration Rules, 1939
(g)
A document which requires a stamp under the Court Fees Act, 1870, is improperly stamped.
(h)
A document which does not bear the date of its execution or bears a date subsequent to the date of presentation.
(i)
A document which is liable to ad valorem duty under the Indian Stamp Act, 1899, and the value or consideration of
which is either not stated in money or is only partly so stated, vide Section 27 of the Act.
(j)
[ A document comprising immovable property partly situated in the Municipality or Corporation or Block and partly
situated outside it, which does not contain the particulars about the value or consideration separately as required by
Section 161 of the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1961: Section 133 A of the Madhya Pradesh Municipal
Corporation Act, 1956; Section 68 of the Madhya Pradesh Panchayat Act, 1981.]
[Substituted by Notification No. 10-1-III-87-90, dated 20-7-1990.]
(k)
A document which, being a lease of immovable property, other than a lease for agricultural purposes, has not been
executed by both the lessor and the lessee, vide Section 107 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882, as amended by
Section 55 of Act XX of 1929.
(l)
[ A document required to be registered under the provisions of the clauses (a) to (e) of sub-section (1) of Section 17 of
the Act which purports to transfer, assign, limit or extinguish the right, title, or interest of any person to or in any
immovable property valued at more than two lakhs, and along with a certificate from the Income Tax Officer to the
following effect has not been furnished :-
[Substituted by Notification No. 10-1-III-87-90, dated 20-7-1990.]
(a)
that such person has either paid or made satisfactory provision for payment of all existing liabilities under the Act, the
Excess Profits Tax Act, 1940, the Business Profit Tax Act, 1947, the Income Tax Act, 1961, the Wealth Tax Act, 1957,
the Expenditure Tax Act, 1957 and the Gift Tax Act, 1958, or
(b)
that registration of the document will not prejudicially affect the recovery of any existing liability under any of the
aforesaid Act.]
(m)
[ A document required to be registered under the provisions of clauses (a) to (e) of sub-section (1) of Section 17 of the
Registration Act, 1908 pertaining to Agricultural Land, which is not presented alongwith the Bhoo Adhikar Avam Rin
Pustika as required by Section 114 (a) of the Madhya Pradesh Land Revenue Code, 1959.]
[Added by Notification No. 2728-III-75, dated 6-6-1975.]
(n)
[ A document relating to transfer of immovable property which is not accompanied by a statement in duplicate prescribed
under Section 269-P of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (No. 43 of 1961)]
[Added by Notification No. 1074-III-77, dated 26-2-1977.]
.
(o)
[ A document required to be registered under the provisions of clauses (a) to (e) of sub-section (1) of Section 17 of
Registration Act, 1908 (No. 16 of 1908) pertaining to Agricultural land is not presented alongwith a copy of the
Panchsala Khasra [certified by the patwari of the concerned circle or]
[Inserted by Notification No. (16)-B-4-2-2000-CTD-V, dated 7-4-2001.]
a Revenue Officer authorised by the Revenue Department in this behalf.]
20.
In the cases referred to in Rule 19, the document shall, prior to its return, be endorsed as required by Form 2 of
Appendix A and an entry in respect of it shall be made in the minute book staling the names of the parties to the
document, the date of execution of the document, its nature and value, the stamp duty paid on it, the date of its
presentation and return, the reasons for its return, and the period allowed for its amendment or correction.
Page 5/47
----- PAGE 6 -----
The M.P. Registration Rules, 1939
21.
Blank space in documents for endorsements.
- All documents presented for registration shall have reserved at the fool of them or on the reverse side, a blank space,
in size not less than one side of a half sheet of foolscap paper, for the purpose of recording the registration
endorsements.
22.
When correction, etc., impracticable.
- If the correction or amendment of a document, which does not fulfil the requirements of Sections 20 to 22 of the Act,
appear impracticable, registration shall be refused.
23.
Grant of receipts for documents and for fees.
- A receipt in Form 12 of Appendix B shall be granted for each document presented for registration which is not returned
for presentation to another office, or for correction or amendment, for each power-of-attorney presented for
authentication and for each sealed cover deposited, opened or withdrawn anil for every fee of fine received by a
Registering Officer.
24.
Cause of delay to be recorded.
- Where it is necessary to enforce the appearance of executants or witnesses or to issue commissions or to make visits
under Sections 33 and 36 to 39 of the Act, or to allow time for persons to appear without service of process on them, the
Registering Officer shall record in the minute book the cause of the delay in completing or refusing registration, as the
case may be, with the date fixed for the appearance of the executants or witnesses or the resumption of the
proceedings. The serial number of the documents shall be noted against the last entry in the minute hook when the
document is finally disposed of.
25.
Issue of commissions.
- A commission shall ordinarily be issued by a Registering Officer to a fit member of his own establishment. If the
person, for whose examination the commission is issued, does not reside within the district or sub-district of the
Registering Officer, it shall issue to the Sub-Registrar of the sub-district in which the person resides. The order for a
commission shall be in Form 4 Appendix A, and shall be endorsed on the document. The report of the Commissioner
shall be in Form 5 of Appendix A. The Commissioner may examine witnesses as to identity and obtain the thumb
impression of the executant on the document and also in the thumb-mark register, as though he were the Registering
Officer. The report of the Commissioner shall be endorsed on the document and shall bear the full signature and
additions of the executant who admitted execution and of the witnesses by whom he was identified.
25A.
[ Attendance at the private residence.
[Inserted by Notification No. 10-1-III-87-90, dated 20-7-1990.]
- In cases falling under the provisions of Section 31 and sub-section (3) of Section 33 and sub-section (2) of Section 38
the Registering Officer shall not attend the residence of any person desiring to present a document for registration or to
deposit a will and to examine the executants, if such persons does not reside with the district and sub-district of the
registration office.]
26.
Method of identification.
- Registering Officers shall personally inquire into the identity of persons not previously known to them, who appear
before them in connection with documents presented for registration or for the authentication of powers-of-attorney
under Section 33 of the Act. They shall require identification of such persons by the evidence of witnesses. The best
witnesses to select for this purpose, when any such are present at the office, are persons in a public or quasi-public
position, such as patels, patwaris, school masters, officers of a Court, other Government officials, officials of local
bodies, pleaders, and the like.
27.
Administration of oath.
- An oath shall not ordinarily be administered under Section 63 of the Act, unless the Registering Officer doubts the truth
Page 6/47
----- PAGE 7 -----
The M.P. Registration Rules, 1939
of statements made by persons before him; but it shall be administered in every case in which fraud is suspected or
alleged. The substance of statements made on oath shall be recorded in the minute book in the manner prescribed by
the said Section 63; and the fact of evidence having been so recorded shall be endorsed by the Registering Officer on
the document according to Form 9 of Appendix A.
28.
Record of admission endorsement.
- When execution is admitted, the Registering Officer shall record in a formal endorsement on the document in Form 6 of
Appendix A. the fact of such admission together with a memorandum of,-
(a)
the payment of money or delivery of goods made in the presence of the Registering Officer,
(b)
an admission of the receipt of consideration in whole or part, and
(c)
the balance of consideration, if any, remaining to be received after registration.
29.
Inquiry about execution not to be delayed.
- When the persons mentioned in Section 34 of the Act are present at the time of the presentation of a document for
registration, and the inquiry directed by that section can then and there be made, the procedure under Section 58 of the
Act need not be delayed :
[Provided that all the requirements essential for presentation of the registration of the documents are complete.]
[Inserted by Notification No. 10-1-III-87-90, dated 20-7-1990.]
30.
Endorsement how to be recorded.
- All endorsements on documents shall be made in the registering officer's own handwriting, unless he has been
authorised to use endorsement stamps and shall be dated and signed by him, as required by Section 59 of the Act.
Below his signature his official designation shall be added.
Note :- The word "handwriting" referred to in this rule shall be taken to include typewriting. The Inspector-General of
Registration may allow a Registering Officer, to use with his own hand, typewriter for the purpose of recording
endorsements on documents presented to him for registration.
31.
When document deemed admitted to registration.
- When the requirements of Sections 34, 35, 52, 58 and 59 of the Act have been satisfied, demand shall thereupon be
made for the payment of the registration copying and other fees. If these are paid, the document shall be admitted to
registration and shall at once be copied into the appropriate register according to the order of its admission, vide Section
52 of the Act. If the fees are not paid, registration shall be refused, vide Rule 35 (r).
32.
Form and mode of recording certificate of registration.
- When a document has been copied into a register and compared, the Registering Officer shall record on it, the
certificate of registration in Form 7 of Appendix A. It shall be sealed as well as signed and dated, and shall bear the date
of the day on which it was written; that is to say, "of the day", on which registration became "complete".
33.
Time for levying fees and fines.
- The fees leviable for the registration of a document are payable by its presenter on demand made by the Registering
Officer. Such demand shall be made as soon as the Registering Officer is prepared to admit the document to
registration and to order it to be copied into the appropriate book vide Rule 31.
34.
[
[Substituted by Notification No. 10-1-III-87-90, dated 20-7-1990.]
When registration is refused after giving the parties A Reasonable Opportunity of being heard an order of refusal with
the reasons therefor shall thereupon be recorded by the Registering Officer in his own handwriting in book 2 (Form No.
2, Appendix B). On the document only the words "Registrar refused" with the date and signature of the Registering
Page 7/47
----- PAGE 8 -----
The M.P. Registration Rules, 1939
Officer and the title of his office, shall be endorsed. This endorsement shall be sealed.]
35.
Reasons for refusal.
- The following shall he deemed to be valid reasons for refusal to register a document :-
On presentation and before acceptance
(a)
That the document is not properly stamped in accordance with the Indian Stamp Act, 1899, or rules framed under that
Act, and having been impounded, that has been returned by the Collector who has not, by his certificate, made under
Section 40 (1) (a) of the said Act, rendered the document admissible for registration.
(b)
That the document has not been presented by a person executing or claiming under it, or by his representative or
assign, or by an agent of any of them, duly authorised by a power-of-attorney executed and authenticated under Section
33 of the Act, vide Section 32 of the Act.
(c)
That, in the case of a will or authority to adopt, the presenter is not entitled to present the instrument under Section 40 of
the Act.
(d)
That presentation of the document is time-barred under Section 23, 23-A, 24 or 26 of the Act, application under Section
25 of the Act for extension of the period having been rejected by the Registrar.
(e)
That a document returned under clause (a) or clause (b) of Rule 19 for presentation with a true translation, transliteration
or true copy, is again presented, without the necessary accompaniments.
[(e-1) That a document returned under clause (m) of Rule 19 for presentation with Bhoo Adhikar Avam Rin-Pustika is
again presented, without the same.]
[Inserted by Notification. No. 2728-III-75, dated 6-6-1975.]
[(e-2) That a document returned under clause (n) of Rule 19 for presentation, with the required statement, is again
presented without the same.]
[Added by Notification No. 1074-III-77, dated 26-2-1977.]
[(e-3) That the document returned under clause (1) of Rule 19 for presentation with the required certificate from the
Income Tax Officer is presented again without the same.
[Inserted by Notification No. 10-1-III-87-90, dated 20-7-1990.]
(e-4) That the document purports to contravene the provisions of Section 165 of the Madhya Pradesh Land Revenue
Code, 1959 i.e. refusal under Section 165 (10) of that Code.
(e-5) That the document returned under clause (o) of Rule 19 for presentation with the required evidence to show that
the notice of the intended transfer, to the Competent Authority is given and is again presented without the same.]
[(e-6) That the document returned under clause (i) of Rule 19 for presentation with the certified copy of Panchsala
Khasra is presented again without it.]
[Inserted by Notification No. (16) B-4-2-2000-CTD-V. dated 7-4-2001.]
(f)
That the document has not been correctly drafted (Sections 20 to 22 of the Act), or property stamped under the Court
Lees Act, 1870, and correction or amendment is impracticable or has not been made in the time given vide Rule 22 or
20 respectively.
(g)
[ x x x]
[Omitted by Notification No. 1247-R, dated 16-7-1941.]
[(h-1) x x x
[Omitted by Notification No. 10-1-III-87-90, dated 20-7-1990.]
(h-2) x x x
(i)
x x x
(j)
Page 8/47
----- PAGE 9 -----
The M.P. Registration Rules, 1939
x x x
(k)
x x x]
After acceptance
(l)
That appearance of persons executing documents of their representatives assigns or agents authorised under Section
33 of the Act has not taken place without the time allowed by Section 34 of the Act.
Note :- If after acceptance of a document it appears probable that the period allowed by Section 34 of the Act will expire
before the executants appear, the Registering Officer shall advice the presenter to apply for an extension of time.
(m)
That the identity of the executants has not been established to the satisfaction of the Registering Officer; or that an
alleged representative, assign or agent has failed to prove his status, vide Section 35 of the Act.
(n)
That the death of the person alleged to have executed the document has not been proved.
(o)
That the person by whom the document purports to have been executed appears to be a minor, idiot or lunatic.
(p)
That the execution is not admitted by the executant personally, or by any one of the several representatives, left by a
deceased executant, vide Section 35 of the Act.
(q)
That, in the case of wills and authorities, to adopt presented after the death of the testator or donor, the execution is not
proved, vide Section 41 of the Act.
(r)
That fees and fines, having been demanded, have not been paid, vide Sections 25, 34 and 80 of the Act.
(s)
If the document being a lease of immovable property has not been executed by both the lessor and the lessee after it
has been returned for amendment under clause (k) of Rule 19.
36.
When registration not to be refused.
- Registration shall not be refused on the ground that any person executing or claiming under the document is unwilling
that it shall be registered, or that want or failure of consideration or denial of execution with free consent (as defined in
Section 14 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872) is pleaded by the executant of the document, although he admits execution,
or that the document deals with property not belonging to the person by whom it purports to have been executed, or that
the transaction is fraudulent or opposed to public policy, or that the document was executed under coercion or by fraud
or under misrepresentation :
Provided that the terms of the deed shall be clearly explained to the parties; and, whenever any such plea as above
indicated is raised, or any objection is taken to the terms of the document, the fact shall be recorded by the Registering
Officer in an endorsement in Form 6 of Appendix A. The procedure to be followed on refusal to sign endorsement is laid
down in Section 58 of the Act.
37.
Appeals under Section 72 of the Act.
- When a Sub-Registrar refuses to register a document for any of the reasons given in Rule 35 except that in clause (p),
viz., that execution is not admitted, an appeal shall lie from his order, vide Section 72 of the Act. In appeals under
Section 72 of the Act. the petition of appeal shall he accompanied by a copy of the Sub Registrars reasons' for refusing
registration, and shall be presented within 30 days from the date of the Sub-Registrar's order by the appellant personally
or by an agent holding a power-of-attorney authenticated as laid down in Section 33 of the Act.
38.
If the Registrar directs the registration of the instrument, his order shall be endorsed on the petition, particulars of any
inquiry made being recorded in the minute book, and a copy of the order shall be sent without unnecessary delay to the
Sub-Registrar concerned.
39.
Page 9/47
----- PAGE 10 -----
The M.P. Registration Rules, 1939
If the Registrar refuses to direct registration or dismisses tin appeal under Section 72 of the Act in default or otherwise,
he shall enter his order in Book 2, vide Section 76 (1) (b) of the Act.
40.
Registration cannot be ordered by a Registrar on appeal, if the maximum period prescribed for appearance under
Section 34 of the Act, had expired when the order of the refusal was made by the Sub-Registrar.
Note :- In order to avoid this, Sub-Registrar should see that the order of refusal is made on or a little before the date on
which the maximum period prescribed for appearance expires.
41.
Applications under Section 73 of the Act.
- When a Sub Registrar refuses to register a document for the reason giving in Rule 35 (p), viz. that the execution is not
admitted, no appeal lies; but an application may be made in writing to the Registrar of the district for leave to prove
before him that the document was really executed by the alleged executant. Such application shall be presented by the
applicant personally, or by an agent holding a power-of-attorney authenticated in the manner laid down in Section 33 of
the Act.
42.
Applications under Section 73 of the Act (to establish execution when execution is denied) shall be verified as if they
were plants; shall be accompanied, like appeals, by a copy of the reasons for the Sub-Registrar's refusal to register; and
shall be presented within 30 days from the date of refusal.
43.
A brief but clear record of any inquiry made under Section 74 of the Act shall be recorded in the minute book, as
mentioned in Rule 38, and shall be referred to in Registrar's order on the application. The Registrar's order shall be
recorded and communicated in the same way as an order on an appeal.
44.
Registrations under Section 77 of the Act,- Any person seeking for the registration of a document on the strength of a
decree for registration passed by a Civil Court, shall produce with it a duly certified copy of the decree stamped in
accordance with Article 7 of Schedule 1 to the Court fees Act, 1870. This copy shall be filed in Part 1 of the file book.
45.
Return of documents unregistered.
- If the party who presented a document for registration wishes to withdraw it, it shall be returned to him with the
endorsement "returned unregistered at the request of A.B. who presented it", the tact of the return being noted in the
minute book :
Provided that such withdrawal shall not ordinarily be permitted at a stage when all registration proceedings have been
completed and the document is pending only for payment of fees.
46.
Return of documents registered or refused registration.
- After registration has been completed, or refusal to register an accepted document has been made, the person who
presented the document shall produce the receipt given to him for it, and the document shall then be returned to him.
Should he, by endorsement made on the receipt, have authorised another person to receive the document, it shall, on
delivery to the Registering Officer of the receipt so endorsed be handed over to such person. The date of the return of
the document and the name of the person to whom it was delivered shall he endorsed on the. receipt which shall then
be pasted on to the counter foil in the receipt book.
46A.
[
[Inserted by Notification No 10-1-III-87-90, dated 2(1-7 1990.]
A register shall be maintained in each Registration Office in Form No. 7 of Appendix C].
47.
[ Return of documents by post.
[Inserted by Notification No. 10-I-III-87-90, dated 20-7-1990.]
- On accepting a document for registration, the Registering Officer shall ascertain from the presenter whether on
registration it should be returned by post to him or some other person named by him. If the presenter desires return by
post, he should be asked to make an endorsement to that effect on the back of the last portion of the receipt issued to
Page 10/47
----- PAGE 11 -----
The M.P. Registration Rules, 1939
him under Section 52 of the Act giving his full address and the name of the nearest post office, and to deposit a fee of to
cover the cost of postage, postal registration, etc. If the presenter of two or more documents desires them to he returned
together by registered post to the same address, an additional fee of to cover further postal charges shall be levied for
each document after the first. The fee shall be shown separately in red ink in column 6 of the fee book and credited into
the treasury by the Registering Officer. The Registering Officer shall on return of the receipt so endorsed shall retain it in
his personal custody till the document has been copied, issuing the middle portion of it to the presenter with an
endorsement that the document covered by the receipt will be sent by post on or about the date stated in the
endorsement. When the document has been copied, it should be placed in a cover which should be closed in the
presence of the Registering Officer and sent to the post office, stamped with service stamps. The postal receipt under
Section 52 of the Act shall be pasted on to the counterfoil of the later receipt. Documents returned undelivered by the
post office shall be entered in the list of "unclaimed documents" after one month from the date of their return and shall
be dealt with in the same way as other unclaimed documents, notes about their return from the post office and delivery
thereafter to proper person being made on the receipts issued under Section 52 of the Act and in the remarks column of
the unclaimed list.]
Registration of copies of decrees and orders of Courts
48.
Acceptance for registration.
- A copy of a decree or order relating to immovable property may be accepted for registration only in the office of the
Sub-Registrar in whose sub-district the original decree or order was passed. A copy of a decree or order relating to
movable property may be registered either in the office above-named or in the office of any other Sub-Registrar under
the State Government at which all the persons claiming under it desire the copy to be registered, vide Section 29 (2) and
Section 30 of the Act (as to presentation to Registrar) and Section 31 of the Act (as to attendance at private residence)
apply.
49.
Presentation for registration.
- The procedure laid down for original instruments in Rules 3, 8 to 10 and 12 to 17 shall be followed. The proper stamp
duty is regulated by Articles 6 and 7 of Schedule I to Court Fees Act, 1870.
50.
Authority and time for presentation.
- Presentation may be made by only a person claiming under the decree or order, or by his representative, assign or
duly authorised agent, vide Sections 32 and 33 of the Act. Presentation shall be made within four months from the date
on which the decree or order was made; or where it is appealable within four months from the date on which it becomes
final. Section 25 of the Act (as to extension of the period on payment of a fine) applies.
51.
Admission to registration.
- Before registering a copy of a Court decree or order, the Registering Officer shall ascertain if it has been property
certified, and is not disqualified for registration for any of the reasons mentioned in Rule 35. Such a copy cannot be
considered properly certified, unless it has a certificate at the foot thereof that it is a true copy of the document or part of
the document, as the case may be, dated and signed with the official title by the officer whose duty it is to grant copies;
and also sealed when he is authorised or required by law to use a seal, vide Section 76, Indian Evidence Act, 1872. If
the document is found not to be a properly certified copy, registration shall be refused. Sections 34 and 35 of the Act
(regulating the appearance of the executants within time, the inquiry into their identity, and the establishment of
execution) do not apply to copies of decrees or orders.
Note :- If a document is defective in these particulars, it shall be returned to the presenter to have the defects removed
before registration is refused.
52.
Registration proper.
- The only endorsements that shall be made on the certified copies of decrees or orders of Courts are the presentation
endorsement (Section 52 of the Act) and the final certificate of registration (Section 60 of the Act), or the endorsement of
refusal to register (Section 71 of the Act). In other respects, registration shall be carried out in the same way as the
registration of executed instruments.
Page 11/47
----- PAGE 12 -----
The M.P. Registration Rules, 1939
Registration of copies of documents sent by Courts and offices under the provisions of the Registration Act
53.
Filing of copies of sale-certificates, loan orders and mortgage deeds.
- Under Sections 64, 65, 66, and 89 of the Act, certain copies of loan orders, etc., and of the sale certificates and certain
copies and memoranda of registered documents are to be "filed" in supplementary book 1. All that has to be verified is
that these copies have been certified as "true copies" and that the memoranda are in Form 2 of Appendix C and bear
the seal and signature of the dispatching officer. If, however, the description of immovable property contained in the
above mentioned documents, including memoranda, is insufficient for identification, it shall be returned to the
Forwarding Officer for completion.
54.
Registration of original sale certificates.
- A sale certificate is sometimes presented for registration by the holder. If a copy has been received in due course from
the Court or sale officer, it should be applied for before proceeding further. When this has been filed, the person desiring
registration of the original should be informed that its registration is unnecessary; but if he still desires registration, that
can at once be effected without further reference to the Court, vide Section 88 of the Act.
55.
Issue of copies and memoranda.
- On registering any non-testamentary document relating to immovable property not wholly situated in his district or
sub-district, a Registering Officer shall immediately despatch a copy of the document, to the Registrar of the district in
which the rest of the property lies; if the rest of the property is in another sub-district of the same district, he shall
immediately send a memorandum (only) to the Sub-Registrar of that sub-district. When the property is situated in
several sub-districts, more than one memorandum will be required. The date of the issue of the memorandum or
memoranda or the despatch of the copy or copies of the document and the serial number of the document to which it or
they refer shall he recorded in the minute book.
55A.
Short note in advance of copies.
- If a Registering Officer is unable to despatch copies as required by Sections 65 and 66 on the day on which the
document is registered, he shall on that day send in advance to each Registrar concerned a short note in Form 2 of
Appendix C.
56.
When a copy of a decree or order of a Court, relating to immovable property, is presented for registration under Section
29 of the Act in the office of a Sub-Registrar or Registrar, in whose sub-district or district no portion of the immovable
property affected is situate, he shall forward a memorandum or copy (as the case may be), under Sections 64 to 66 of
the Act free of charge, to the Sub-Registrar or Registrar, in whose sub-district or district the whole or any portion of it is
situate, for filing in supplementary book 1.
57.
On registering a non-testamentary document relating to immovable property, situate within the limits of military
cantonment, the Registering Officer shall immediately supply the Cantonment Authority concerned or any other authority
which may have been prescribed by the Central Government, with information in respect of such document in the form
of a "memorandum" ordinarily sent under Sections 64 and 66 of the Act, vide Section 287 (2) of the Cantonment Act,
1924, as amended by Section 11 of Act XXXV of 1926. No seal deed, however, be affixed to the memorandum thus
sent, but a note of the despatch of the memorandum to the Cantonment Authority shall be made by the Registering
Officer in the margin of the copy of the document in the register-book for the information of the Inspecting Officers.
58.
The copy of the document and the memorandum to be issued under Sections 64 to 66 of the Act shall be prepared in
Forms 1 and 2 of the Appendix C. Spare copies of printed, lithographed, typed, cyclotyped and cyclostyled documents
shall he obtained from the presenter and forwarded to the Registrars of the districts concerned under Section 65 or 66 of
the Act. The memoranda shall contain a description of the property affected by the document sufficient to identify it. If
the description of the property affected cannot be given in the space provided for the purpose in the form, it shall be
given on the reverse of the form or on a separate paper to he attached thereto. In no case shall slip be pasted in the
column in the memorandum form for the description of the property.
Page 12/47
----- PAGE 13 -----
The M.P. Registration Rules, 1939
59.
When copies of documents forwarded under Sections 65 and 66 of the Act to (lie Registrar of another district are written
in a language other than the language which has been declared to be the Court language of the district to which they are
sent, they should be accompanied by a statement in English containing all the information required for the preparation of
the memorandum and indexes.
60.
Filing of copies and memoranda.
- Each copy or memorandum shall be examined immediately on receipt, and, if found correct, filed in supplementary
book I with the following endorsement recorded thereon :-
"Filed in supplementary book I, Volume , on page(s) as serial number...........on the...........day of 19....
Signature and designation ofthe Registering Officer".
The copy of a document written in manuscript shall be in Form I of Appendix C.
61.
Cancellation or rectification of registered documents.
- Ordinarily a registered document may be modified or superseded only by another registered document. When any
registered document is re-registered or purports to supersede, cancel or in any way modify another document already
registered, the fact shall be noted in red in the margin of the copy of both documents and noted in nothing further need
he done. Occasionally, however, a registered document is cancelled by order of a Court. The procedure to be followed
is in such cases is given in Rule 62.
62.
When under Section 39 of the Specific Relief Act, 1877, a Court sends to a Registering Officer a copy of a decree
directing cancellation of a registered document, the Registering Officer shall note the following particulars across the
copy of the document in the book; and he shall then sign and date the entry so made, noting below the designation of
his office :-
(a)
Court of....................
(b)
Suit No of 19...............
(c)
Plaintiffs and defendant's names.
(d)
The words "by decree made in the above suit and dated this document was ordered to be cancelled, vide letter from the
Judge....................No........., dated......
63.
When a Court has, under Section 31 of the Specific Relief, 1877 ordered rectification of a registered document, and
fresh registration or re-registration of such document is sought by parties executing or claiming under it, a note as
follows shall be written across the original entry in the book :-
For copy of his document which has been rectified, vide serial No Volume , Book No for 19............................
Dated
Signature of Registering Officerand official designation."
64.
At the same time opposite the entry of the rectified document, a note to the following effect shall be made in the margin
of the book
"This is a copy of the document as rectified under Section 31 of the Specific Relief Act, 1877, vide serial No  Volume,
Book No of 19...........
Dated...........
Signature of Registering Officerand official designation."
64A.
A Registering Officer shall, on receipt of a copy of order or decree from Court regarding rectification or cancellation of a
document, make an endorsement in red ink against the index entries of the document and file the copy in Part I of the
file book. He shall also send a note giving necessary particulars of such rectification or cancellation-
Page 13/47
----- PAGE 14 -----
The M.P. Registration Rules, 1939
(a)
to the Sub-Registrars or Registrars concerned who with reference to Sections 64, 65 and 66 of the Act shall record the
fact of rectification or cancellation against the appropriate memorandum or copy, as the case may be, already filed with
them,
(b)
[ to the Tehsilar as required by Section 112 of the Madhya Pradesh Land Revenue Code, 1959.]
[Substituted by Notification No. 10-1-III-87-90, dated 20-7-1990]
65.
Wills may be registered or deposited.
- Wills may be either registered or deposited in sealed covers. If they are registered, they are copied (after the ordinary
registration procedure has been complied with) into book 3. If they are presented closed, for deposit, certain particulars
are noted in book 5, and the cover containing the will is placed in the safe, vide Section 43 of the Act.
66.
Time and authority to deposit.
- A will may be deposited at any time either by the testator personally or by a duly authorised agent. The
power-of-attorney of such agent need not be authenticated in the manner required by Section 33 of the Act, which refers
to presentation for registration and not to presentation for deposit. The Registering Officer, however, must satisfy himself
that the person appearing as an agent is the person whose name is written on the cover of the will, vide Sections 42 and
43 of the Act.
67.
Warning to depositors of wills.
- Registrars shall inform the depositors of wills contained in sealed covers that no steps will be taken by Government to
ascertain the death of the testators or to communicate after their death with the beneficiaries.
68.
Authority to withdraw or open sealed covers.
- During the life-time of the testator, only the testator himself or his authorised agent, may withdraw a will that has been
deposited. After the testator's death, any one who is prepared to pay the copying fees may have the cover of a will
opened and the will copied into book 3, Registering Officer must be fully satisfied of the testator's death before opening
a sealed cover and copying a will. When the copy has been made the will shall not be given up, but shall be
re-deposited in the safe. The fact of its having been copied, with the date and serial number of the copy shall be noted
on the cover in the following form, and it shall then be placed in a cover which shall then be re-sealed and re-deposited
:-
"Sealed cover opened on the application of...........  son of.......... on the day of. 19....................... and contents thereof
copied in Book 3 as serial No of 19.........
Signature and official title ofRegistering Officer."
69.
Wills forwarded to Courts.
- When a will is forwarded to any Court under Section 46 of the Act, it shall be accompanied by a memorandum of the
fee for opening the cover and copying charges, and the Court shall at the same time be requested to levy and remit the
fees to the Registrar.
70.
Book for documents cancelling wills.
- A revocation or cancellation of a will or of an authority to adopt shall be treated as a document of a testamentary
character and shall be registered in book 3.
71.
Alphabetical index of the names of depositors.
- An alphabetical index of the names of all persons depositing sealed covers containing will shall be prepared in all
Registrar's offices and kept in the personal custody of the Headquarters Sub-Registrar. On application being made the
necessary search of the name of any such depositor shall be made by the Headquarters Sub-Registrar himself on
payment of the fee prescribed in Article XVII (a) of the fee Schedule.
72.
Page 14/47
----- PAGE 15 -----
The M.P. Registration Rules, 1939
Preservation and inspection of original wills filed under Act XXXIX of 1925.
- Original wills filled under sub-section (1) of Section 294 of the Indian Succession Act, 1925 (XXXIX of 1925), shall be
preserved and inspected in accordance with the regulations made by the State Government under sub-section (2) of
that section. The register of will required to be kept under the said regulations shall be in Form 14 of the forms in
Appendix B to these rules. The Registrar shall be responsible for the proper maintenance of the register of wills.
Authentication of powers-of-attorney
73.
Endorsement.
- Endorsement of authentication of power-of-attorney made under Section 33 of the Act, shall be made by the
Registering Officer himself in Forms 8 (a), (b) and (c) of Appendix A.
74.
Powers to be authenticated.
- A power-of-attorney conferring on an attorney or agent (alongwith with other powers) the power to act for the principal
under the Act shall be authenticated by the Registering Officer, vide Section 33 of the Act.
75.
Interlineations, etc.
- All interlineations, blanks, erasures, additions or alterations in powers-of-attorney authenticated under Section 33 of the
Act but not registered, shall, at the time of authentication, be detailed in a footnote signed by the Registering Officer.
When there are no interlineations, etc., this fact shall be noted in the same way. These notes shall be copied out in the
authentication also.
Late Presentation and Late Appearance
76.
Particulars about applications for extensions to be noted in minute book.
- The following particulars regarding applications for extension of time for the presentation of a document or for the
appearance of parties shall be entered from time to time by the Sub-Registrar in the minute book :-
(a)
Date of making application.
(b)
Date of Transmission of application to the Registrar.
(c)
Date of return of application from the Registrar.
(d)
Date of communication of the Registrar's order to the applicant.
77.
On return from the Registrar of an application lodged under Section 25 or 34 of the Act, it shall be filed in Part II of the
file book and the purport of the Registrar's order shall be communicated without unnecessary delay to the applicant
verbally if he is present, or by post if he is absent.
78.
Scale of fine.
- Fines for late presentation (Section 25 of Act) and late appearance (Section 34 of the Act) shall be regulated by the
scale given below. In calculating the time when the period begins to run, it must be borne in mind that words "from the
date" and "from the day" used in Sections 2.3 and 24 of the exclude from the period the date of the execution of the
document, and the day on which the decree or order of the Court was made or became final, as the ease may be, vide
Section 9(1) of the General Clauses Act, 1897 :-
Scale
(i)
Where the delay does not exceed a month, a fine of twice the amount of the proper registration fee.
(ii)
Where the delay exceeds one month, but docs not exceed two months, a fine of four times the amount of proper
registration fee.
(iii)
Page 15/47
----- PAGE 16 -----
The M.P. Registration Rules, 1939
Where the delay exceeds two months, but docs not exceed three months, a fine of six times the amount of the proper
registration fee.
(iv)
Where the delay exceeds three months, but does not exceed four months, a fine of ten times the amount of the proper
registration fee.
Disposal of Unclaimed Documents
79.
After one month.
- If a document remains unclaimed for one month from the date on which the certificate of registration or refusal to
register was recorded on it, or from the date on which the cover containing a document sent by post was received back
undelivered from the post office (vide Rule 47), it shall be entered in the "list of unclaimed documents" (Form 3 of
Appendix C). This list shall be conspicuously exposed to public view in each office.
80.
After one month and before 23 months.
- A document which has been entered in the unclaimed list shall not thereafter be returned unless and until a fee for its
safe custody, at the rate prescribed in the Fee Schedule, is paid by the person who presented it or by the person whom
he may have authorised under Rule 46 to claim it, or, if the document is other than a will, by the person claiming under
it, if it was presented for registration by the executant. Unclaimed wills may be returned on payment of the custody fees
to any person claiming as executor or otherwise, if he testator is found to be dead.
81.
After 23 months.
- When a document has been on the unclaimed list (Rule 80) for a period of twenty-two months, notice shall be given,
through the Tehsildar, by the Registering Officer in whose office the document is, to all persons executing and claiming
under the document. The date on which, and the names of the persons to whom such notice is sent, shall be endorsed
on (he document and also on the unclaimed list. This notice shall be in Form 4 of Appendix C, and shall state that in
default of the document being claimed and the custody fees being paid within two months from the date of the notice,
the document will be destroyed under Section 85 of the Act.
82.
After 25 months.
(1)
If the document is not claimed, or the custody fee not paid within the two months and the document is in the office of a
Sub-Registrar, he shall report to the Registrar who shall exercise his discretion and order the destruction or further
retention of the document, as the case may require. If the document is in the office of the Registrar, he shall, at the
expiration of the two months, exercise his discretion and destroy or retain the document :
Provided that in no case shall a document be kept in the unclaimed list for a period exceeding 30 months, unless it be a
will.
(2)
Wills lying unclaimed in Sub-Registrars' offices shall, after the procedure laid down in Rules 79, 80 and 81 has been
followed, be forwarded to the Registrars' office for being kept with similar wills of that office in the iron safe. They shall
there be entered in a separate manuscript register in the following form and also in the unclaimed list of the office.
If the person entitled to claimed the return of a will applies to a Sub-Registrar for its return after the document has been
transmitted to the Registrar's office, he shall be advised to obtain it from the Registrar direct, on payment of the
prescribed custody fee. If he is unwilling to do so, the will shall be obtained from the Registrar by the Sub-Registrar at
the applicant's own cost and on payment of the necessary custody fees. It shall be returned to the applicant and a note
of its receipt from the Registrar's office and of its return shall be entered in the unclaimed list of the sub-office.
Form of Register
Serial No.
Name of office to which the will belongs
Name of the testator
Names of claimants or executors
(1)
Page 16/47
----- PAGE 17 -----
The M.P. Registration Rules, 1939
(2)
(3)
(4)
Date of execution
Serial number and date of registration in book 3
or refusal in book 2
Date of receipt in the Registrar's office
Initials of the District Registrar
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
Date of return
Amount of custody fee realised
Initials of the District Registrar
Remark as to whether the will was returned
direct or through the Sub-Registrar
(9)
(10)
(11)
(12)
Rs. P.
83.
Destruction.
- When the destruction of the unclaimed document has been ordered, prior to the destruction being carried out, a note
shall be entered at foot of the copy of the document in the book in which it was registered, or in the book in which the
reasons for the refusal to register it were recorded. This note shall be signed by the officer in whose office the
destruction is to take place and be worded as follows :-
"The document referred to above was destroyed before me on this.............. day of...........  19........., it having been in the
unclaimed list of this office from the............day of.  19.......; and due notice of its intended destruction under Rule 81
having been sent to...........son of.............and.........son of..........on the.......... day of.......... 19..........
Signature and official title ofRegistering Officer".
Offices and Records
84.
Registration offices.
- The office a Registering Officer, for the purposes of the Act, shall be the place where such officer may be holding his
office or transacting public business.
85.
[ Office hours and hours of business.
[Substituted by Notification No. 1074-III-77, dated 26-2-1977.]
- Except for Sundays and holidays, all Registration Offices shall remain open from 10.30 a.m to 5 p.m. daily unless
otherwise specified by State Government or any other Competent Authority. The hours during which documents etc.
shall ordinarily be accepted for registration or deposit, etc. are :-
(a)
from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.
(b)
or if the office opens from a time different than from the time the office opens upto the end the last but one hour before
the office closes.]
86.
Holidays.
- The holidays to be observed in Registration Offices shall be only those prescribed by the State Government for all
Page 17/47
----- PAGE 18 -----
The M.P. Registration Rules, 1939
public offices.
87.
Registers, etc.
- The following books and indexes shall be kept in Registration Offices :-
Book No. 1
As prescribed by Section 51 of the Act. For all offices.
Book No. 2
Book No. 3
Book No. 4
Book No. 5
As prescribed by Section 51 of the Act. In the offices of
Registrars only.
[Book No. 6Book No. 7Book No. 7-ABook No. 8
[Substituted by Notification No. 5038-III-82, dated 18-11-1982.]
Supplementary Book No. 1Additional Book No. 1Additional
Book No. 3Additional Book No. 4
as Prescribed by rules89 anti 90]
Book No. 9
Register of power-of-attorney authenticated under Section 33
of the Act.
Book No. 10
Register of thumb impressions.
Book No. 11
Register of refusal under the Land Alienation Ad.
Book No. 12
Minute Book.
Book No. 13
Register of unclaimed wills deposited in iron safe for sale
custody.
Book No. 14
Register of original wills received from District Judges and
deposited in iron safe for safe custody.
Book No. 15
Indexes I, II, III and IV as prescribed in Section 55 of the
Act.
Book No. 16
Lee Book.
Book No. 17
Cash Account Book.
Book No. 18
Receipt Book.
Book No. 19
Register of impounded documents.
Book No. 20
File books of applications and other papers (in eight parts).
Book No. 21
Register of Appeal and Applications under Sections 72 and 73
of the Act.
Note :- The aforesaid books and indexes shall be according to Forms 1 to 19 and 24 to 27 of Appendix B.
88.
Documents not to be filed in [ordinary books 1, 3 or 4]
Page 18/47
----- PAGE 19 -----
The M.P. Registration Rules, 1939
[Substituted by Notification No. 5038-III-82, dated 18-11-1982.]
.
- In addition to the copies which have to be made in [book 1, book 1 or book 4]
[Substituted by Notification No. 5038-III-82, dated 18-11-1982.]
above referred to, only the following documents shall be filed
(a)
True copies and true translations or transliterations (Section 62 of the Act).
(b)
Copies and memoranda of registered documents received from other offices (Sections 64 to 67 of the Act).
(c)
Copies of loan orders issued by officers under the Land Improvement Loans Act, 1883 [Section 89 (1) of the Act].
(d)
Copies of certificates of sale of immovable property granted by Civil Courts under Order XXL Rule 94. Civil Procedure
Code [Section 89 (2) of the Act].
(e)
Copies of loan orders ami mortgage deeds executed as security for loans granted under the Agriculturists' Loans Act,
1884, sent by officers granting the loans [Section 89 (3) of the Act],
(f)
Copies of sale certificates granted by Revenue Officers to the purchasers of immovable property sold by public auction
[Section 89 (4) of the Act].
(g)
Copies of certificates of sales granted by sale officers under Section 20 of the Central Provinces Co-operative Land
Mortgage Banks Act, 1937 [Section 89 (5) of the Act].
(h)
[ Spare copies of all documents prepared on printed, lithographed, typed, cyclostyled, cyclotyped or photostat forms and
presented for registration in book 1, 3 or 4.]
[Substituted by Notification No. 5038-III-82, dated 18-11-1982.]
(i)
[ Copies of documents creating charge variation of mortgage duly certified to be true copy by an employee of the bank
authorised to sign on its behalf as required by Section 8 of the Madhya Pradesh Krishi Udhar Pravarlan Tatha Prakirn
Upabandha (Bank) Adhiniyam, 1972.
[Inserted by Notification No. 10-1-III-87-90, dated 20-7-1990.]
(j)
Copy of the instrument where by immovable property is mortgaged for the purpose of securing repayment of the loan as
required by Section 36 (1) of the Madhya Pradesh Sahkari Bhoomi Vikas (Bank) Adhiniyam, 1966.]
Note :- Copies of maps and plans attached to documents shall be filed in the book in which the document to which they
refer is copied or filed.
89.
Supplementary book 1.
- To prevent injury to the binding which results from the introduction of the above documents into the hound registers, a
separate file book, to be called "Supplementary book 1 " shall be kept in each office, and the documents referred to in
clause [(b) to (g) and (i) and (j)]
[Substituted by Notification No. 10-1-III-87-90, dated 20-7-1990.]
of Rule 88 shall he filed in it.
90.
[Additional Books 1, 3 and 4]
[Substituted by Notification No. 5038-III-82, dated 18-11-1982.]
.
- [(1) Special volumes of register books 1. 3 and 4 to be called "additional books 1, 3 and 4 shall be opened in all
Registration Offices in the form of file book with numbered butts for filing the spare legible copies on fairly durable paper
on which shall be made all endorsements ordinarily made on copies in books 1, 3 and 4. On each sheet the Registering
Page 19/47
----- PAGE 20 -----
The M.P. Registration Rules, 1939
Officer shall affix his signature and seal partly on the butt anti partly on the copy. Every spare copy shall be compared
with the original and certified as a true copy" by the Registering Officer under his full signature and seal.]
[Substituted by Notification No. 5038-III-82, dated 18-11-1982.]
(2)
When a document is registered under this rule, a certificate of registration under Section 60 of the Act shall be endorsed
on the original document and the spare copy in the following form :-
"Registered in [Additional Book 1/3/4]
[Substituted by Notification No. 5038-III-82, dated 18-11-1982.]
volume  on page(s)..........as serial No on the day of 19....................."
(3)
A copy of the stamp vendor's endorsement shall he made at the foot of the spare copy if impressed stamps are used for
the document. If adhesive labels are used, the amount of stamp duty actually paid on the original instrument shall be
stated below the details of fees, etc., by the Registering Officer for the information of inspecting officers.
91.
Preservation of records.
- Of the books and indexes, etc., mentioned in Rule 87, books 1 to 15 Parts I and III of book 20 and book 21 shall be
permanent record and preserved, in perpetuity.
The remaining books and files, namely, books 16 to 19 and Parts II and IV to VIII of books 20, shall be temporary
records and disposed of in the manner laid down in the rules framed by the State Government under clause (c) of
sub-section (2) of Section 3 of the Destruction of Records Act, 1917 (V of 1917), for the destruction of records
maintained in registration offices under the Indian Registration Act, XVI of 1908.
92.
Record registers.
- In all registration offices, two registers of records shall be maintained in Forms 20 and 21 of Appendix B, one relating to
the permanent and the other relating to the temporary records, in which separate pages shall be allotted for each series
of books, indexes and other records. All records in an office shall be brought to account in one or the other of these
registers as the case may be.
There shall be one register of permanent records in Sub-Registrars' offices in Form 20, while in offices of Registrars two
registers in Forms 22 and 23 of Appendix B shall be maintained, one for books and the other for indexes and file books.
The pages in all these registers shall be numbered, and certificates about their total number given in the beginning.
93.
Once a month the officer-in-charge of an office shall examine all the registers and books, etc., in his charge with a view
to discovering whether they have suffered any damage from white ants, insects, damp or any other cause.
94.
If any records, blank books, etc., should, at any time, be found to be missing or damaged, or if any key be lost or any
lock becomes unfit for use a report on the subject shall be submitted without delay to the Registrar of the district, who
shall, if necessary, make a careful and prompt inquiry in the matter and submit his report to the Inspector-General of
Registration for orders.
95.
Charge lists.
- On the transfer of the charge of an office, a list shall be made out-
(a)
of the records which are in the office at the time of the transfer,
(b)
of all blank books in stock,
(c)
of all furniture, and
(d)
of all the keys with their numbers (including the duplicate key of the office door), which are made over to the officer
taking over charge.
At the foot of the list a memorandum shall be recorded setting forth that the records, books, etc., have been examined;
Page 20/47
----- PAGE 21 -----
The M.P. Registration Rules, 1939
and the result of the examination as showing whether or not they were found undamaged; and staling whether or not the
provisions of Rule 93 have been complied with. This list and the memorandum shall be signed both by the officer who
takes over and by the officer who lakes over charges and shall be filed in Part II of the filed book of the office. The
Relieving Officer shall also sign a certificate in the following form and if he is a Sub-Registrar shall transmit it without
delay to the office of the Registrar :-
Certificate
"I hereby declare that I have this day received charge of the records of the headquarters/sub-office at.............in good
order, expect as detailed below ;-
Dated the................ 19.............
Sub-Registrar".
96.
Safes.
- There shall be provided for the office of each Registrar a fire-proof safe fitted with duplicate keys, for the deposit of will
(Section 43 of the Act) and for such other purposes not inconsistent with the rules in force as may seem fit to the
Registrar. The safe shall be kept in the strong room of the Treasury (Sub Treasury at Damoh, Seoni and Narsimhapur)
and placed in a position above the level of the floor. The safe shall never be opened except in the Registrar's presence
and he shall not leave it until it has been securely closed.
97.
Almirahs and record racks.
- Almirahs or record racks shall be provided for the officer of every Registrar and Sub-Registrar for the safe custody of
the office books, records and seal, which shall be kept therein. These almirahs or racks must be removed from contact
with any wall, and must be elevated a few inches above the floor on feet or trestles placed in tin or stone troughs filled
with water, the floor beneath being coated with tar. If in addition they are lined with tin, the tin lining should be
continuous and without crevices. I very such almirah or box shall secured by a good padlock of English pattern filled with
duplicate keys. The keys and the office seal shall be in the custody of the Registering Officer and not of the Moharrir.
98.
Custody of duplicate keys.
- The duplicate keys of all safes, almirahs and boxes in his district shall be lodged by the Registrar in the safe referred to
in Rule 96 supra. The duplicate keys of the sale shall remain in the personal custody of the Registrar.
99.
Schedule of fees.
- A copy of the Fee Schedule both in English and the Court language shall be pasted on a board and be exposed to
public view if a conspicuous place outside all registration offices; and the Sub-Registrar of each office shall be held
responsible that it is maintained in a legible condition.
100.
Custody of fees.
- A small but strongly made box with a good lock shall be provided for the temporary custody of the fee receipts of each
office.
101.
Custody of documents.
- Documents pending registration, copying or delivery shall be deposited for safe custody in a tin box (of the size of an
ordinary office box), which shall be locked up every night in the office almirah.
102.
Registration maps.
- There shall be maintained in the office of each Registrar a map or tracing (scale 2 miles to I inch) showing the
boundaries of the registration of sub-districts; into which the district is divided, and also the most important towns and
villages, together with such natural features as prevent free communication during the rains. A similar map shall be
maintained in the office of every Sub-Registrar showing the boundary of the sub-district and the names and situation of
all villages therein contained.
Maintenance of the Registration Records
103.
Page 21/47
----- PAGE 22 -----
The M.P. Registration Rules, 1939
Languages.
- In each district the language deemed to be commonly used shall be Hindi written in Deonagri script.
104.
Power-of-attorney, its translation when necessary.
- When a Power-of-attorney is presented for attestation or when an attested power-of attorney is produced by an agent
with, or in connection with, a document presented for registration and the power-of-attorney is written in a language
which is not the Court language of the district, the Registering Officer may. if he does not understand the language,
demand of the presentant, a true translation of the power (in English or) in the Court language of the district. 'The
translation shall be certified to be a true translation and shall be signed by the presentant. No fee is leviable for filing a
translation in cases falling under this rule.
105.
Errors, etc., in original documents.
- Errors, erasures, interlineations, etc., in the original document shall be copied in the register book exactly as they
appear in the document. A note shall be made in the margin of the book explaining such errors, etc., in the following
manner
(a)
Interlineations, additions or mis-spellings, of a single word shall be marked with a single marks x in ink over the defect,
with a similar x mark and the word "sic", with the initials of the Registering Officer in the margin of the book.
(b)
Erasures, additions or interlineations of more than one word shall he marked with two marks x x, one at each end of the
erasure, addition or interlineation, with similar marks and the word "erasure", "addition" or "interlineation" between them
with the initials of the Registering Officer in the margin of the book.
(c)
An erasure accompanied by interlineation of an entry substituted for the one erased, the erasure as prescribed in clause
(b) and the interlineation shall be marked with marks x x, one at each end of the correct entry, with similar marks and the
word "sic" between them with the initials of the Registering Officer, in the margin of the book.
106.
Authentication of copies in books.
- The Registering Officer shall authenticate each copy made in a register by legibly affixing his signature in full, together
with his official designation, at the foot of such entry and by initialing the stamp vendor's endorsement.
107.
Authentication shall invariably be made prior to the return of the document to the person who presented it or claims it.
Before so authenticating it, the Registering Officer shall examine the copy made, and if he finds that any error has been
made in copying, he shall cause the error to be amended and affix to it his initials. Should an interlineation or erasure be
necessary, he shall affix his initials to both ends of it, and the words "error in copying" shall be entered opposite the
mistake in the margin of the book.
108.
Copying of endorsement.
- All endorsements made on documents shall be copied in the margin of the page or pages of the book in which the
document has been copied, and in the same order. At the foot of the last endorsement so copied, the value of the stamp
paper used for, or of the adhesive Court fee stamp affixed to the document, shall be recorded. The amount of the
ordinary and the extraordinary (if any), copying and other Ices levied on the document by the Registering Officer shall be
recorded below the record of the value of the stamp paper or stamp, and the Registering Officer shall initial the entry.
109.
The entries made in the register shall be numbered separately and the numbering shall commence and terminate with
each financial year, beginning from the 1st April and ending with the 31st March, irrespective of the date on which the
annual accounts are closed.
110.
Endorsement on copies of sale certificates, loan orders and mortgage deeds filed.
- On copies of-
(a)
Page 22/47
----- PAGE 23 -----
The M.P. Registration Rules, 1939
orders issued under the Land Improvement Loans Act;
(b)
certificates of sale of immovable properly granted under Order XXI, Rule 94, Civil Procedure Code;
(c)
orders under the Agriculturists' Loans Act, and mortgage deeds executed as security for such loans;
(d)
certificates granted by Revenue Officers to purchasers of immovable property sold by public auction;
(e)
certificates of sale of immovable property granted under Section 20 of the Central Provinces Co-operative I and
Mortgage Banks Act, 1937;
(f)
[ documents creating charge, variation or mortgage sent under Section 8 of the Madhya Pradesh Krishi Udhar Pravartan
Tatha Prakirn Upabandha (Bank) Adhiniyam, 1972;
[Inserted by Notification No. 10-1-III-87-90, dated 20-7-1990.]
(g)
instruments whereby immovable property is mortgaged under sub-section (1) of Section 36 of the Madhya Pradesh
Sahkari Bhoomi Vikas (Bank) Adhiniyam, 1966,]
which are filed in supplementary book 1, endorsement in the following form shall be recorded :-
"Filed in supplementary book 1, volume............on page(s)....., as serial number.........., on the................. day of...............
19........
Signature arid designation ofthe Registering Officer."
111.
Re-registration under Section 23-A of the Act.
- If it is necessary to re-register a document which was presented at the time of its first registration by a person not duly
empowered to present it, any person claiming under such document may present it for re-registration in the office of the
Registrar of the district in which the original document was presented, within four months from his first becoming aware
of the invalid registration of the document, as provided for in Section 23-A of the Act. The result of the inquiry made by
the Registrar or Headquarters Sub-Registrar to satisfy himself of the unauthorised presentation of the document at the
time of its first registration and also of its presentation for re-registration within the time prescribed by Section 23-A of the
Act shall invariably be recorded in the minute-book.
The preparation of Indexes
112.
Indexes how prepared.
- Indexes shall be prepared alphabetically in the language which has been declared to be the Court language of the
district, one or more sheets being allotted to each letter of the alphabet in indexes Nos. I, III and IV. The entries in all
indexes shall be made immediately the document has been copied or the copy or spare copy or the memorandum has
been filed. The forms of the indexes are given in Appendix B (Forms 24, 25 and 261.
113.
Index No. II.
- In preparing Index II, separate sheets shall be used for each village so that the entries for any given village may be
continuous. These entries shall close at the end of each year, and shall be bound in yearly volumes like other indexes.
For large towns, from which registrations are numerous and which the divided into recognized divisions, mohallas or
circles, separate sheets shall be assigned in the file book to each division, mohalla or circle.
114.
Index forms how supplied and used.
- Index forms will be supplied in loose sheets, and these, as they are filled in, shall be tacked together.
115.
Separate sheets of indexes shall not be used for each month, but when a sheet has had tin entry made in it, entries
coming under the same letter of the alphabet shall continue to be made on that sheet till it is fully, when a fresh sheet
shall be added to it, and so on, till the close of the year.
116.
Page 23/47
----- PAGE 24 -----
The M.P. Registration Rules, 1939
Transfer of villages how dealt with.
- Whenever villages are transferred from one sub-district to another during the period for which volumes of Index II are
maintained by Sub-Registrars, the Sub-Registrar from whose sub-district a village is transferred shall make a note in red
ink after the last entry' in the index sheet assigned to the village, showing the name of the sub-district to which it is
transferred and the date of the transfer. Similarly, the Sub-Registrar of the sub-district to which the village is transferred
shall make a note in red ink at lop of each sheet assigned to the village, showing the name of the sub-district from which
the village was received and the date of the transfer.
117.
Binding of Indexes.
- At the end of the year. Indexes I, II, III and IV shall be carefully examined, and any mistakes or omissions found shall
be corrected or supplied. They shall then be arranged in alphabetical and serial order and be bound. Sheets of each of
the Indexes I, II, III and IV shall be bound in a separate volume. All pages in a volume shall be serially numbered, a
certified of their total number given on the title page under the signature of the Registering Officer.
118.
Crediting of fees.
(1)
All fees paid shall be brought to account in the fee book (Form 16 in Appendix B) in detail, distinguishing "Ordinary" from
"extraordinary" or "other" fees; and all moneys paid shall, from time to time, be entered in the receipts given for
documents under Rule 23.
(2)
Registering Officers are held personally responsible that this rule is strictly adhered to; and they shall cause the entries
in the fee book to be totalled daily, initialing the result after checking it.
119.
Cash and cash account.
- The cash received in each office shall be remitted without undue delay with a challan to the treasury or sub-treasury
where there is one, and the challan shall be filed when returned from the treasury. Where there is no treasury, the fee
receipts should be allowed to accumulate till they reach Rs. 100, or the month end, whichever may first occur, and them
remitted by money order to the nearest treasury through the Headquarters Sub-Registrar. In such cases special
provision shall be made under the sanction of the Inspector-General of Registration for the safe custody of the cash.
120.
Refund of fees.
(1)
Refunds of the following fees are claimable provided that the claim or refund is lodged within three months of the date
on which the refund becomes claimable and the party concerned comes to know that he is entitled to the refund :-
(a)
Fees charged in excess of the authorised scale.
(b)
Fees paid for a visit (Sections 31, 33 and 38 of Act) or issue of a commission (Sections 33 and 38 of the Act), if such
visit is not paid or such commission is not issued.
(c)
Fines paid and subsequently remitted by the Inspector-General of Registration under Section 70 of the Act.
(2)
A Registering Officer may refund fees which he has collected under clause (a), without reference to any Higher
Authority, if the mistake made in collecting them is discovered before the fees have remitted to the treasury. Any amount
so refunded shall be deducted from the total amount of the day's collections entered in the fee book, and the particulars
stated therein.
(3)
If the mistake is not discovered until after the fees have been remitted to the treasure, the person interested shall be
informed that a refund of the fees paid by him (or a portion of them, as the case may be) is claimable. On receipt of his
application, the Sub-Registrar shall submit it to the Registrar with his remarks thereon, together with a refund bill
prepared in Form 22 of Schedule I of the Accounts Form (Rule 325, Chapter VII of Financial Rules, Volume I, First
Page 24/47
----- PAGE 25 -----
The M.P. Registration Rules, 1939
Edition of 1929) under his signature.
(4)
The Registrar shall check the claim, and, if it appears allowable, shall pass an order for refund on the application. He
shall then countersign the refund bill and return it, along with the application, to the Sub-Registrar concerned who shall
after obtaining the signature of the payee on the application referred to handover the refund bill to the person claiming
the refund with instructions to present it for payment at the treasury. The amount sanctioned for refund shall invariably
be shown in column 8 of the refund bill in figures as well as in words. Refunds may be sanctioned by Registrars on their
own authority and without the previous sanction of the Inspector-General of Registration.
(5)
Fees or travelling allowance paid for copies made, visits paid, commissions executed, or journey performed, cannot be
returned. The principles to be borne in mind is than a fee should not be retained when the consideration for which is was
paid has wholly failed.
121.
Minute book.
- A minute book shall be maintained in every registration office in Form 9 of Appendix B. It is intended to contain the
record of all suspensions of the ordinary procedure of acceptance for, and admission to, registration, and of such other
proceedings as the Inspector-General of Registration may from time to time prescribe.
122.
The entries in the minute book shall be made by the Registering Officer in his own hand and each proceeding shall be
signed and dated by him. Besides the particulars mentioned in the Rule 121, the book may contain any other matter of
importance which the Registering Officer thinks fit to record.
123.
Register of power-of-attorney authenticated.
- The form of the register of power-of-attorney authenticated (Form No. 11) will be found in Appendix B. All powers
authenticated shall be entered in it in the order in which they are authenticated and not in the order of registration if they
are registered as well as authenticated. Only such powers as are authenticated under Section 33 of the Act need be
entered in this register.
124.
Receipt book.
- The receipt book is made up of forms in triplicate (Form 12 of Appendix B) stitched together with page numbers
entered in print, each book containing 100 pages. The counterfoil of every receipt shall be retained by the Registering
Officer, while the second and third parts thereof shall be issued to the presenter of the deed with the initials of the
Registering Officer.
125.
Recopying of crumbling pages or fading entries.
- When a page in a register book is crumbling or an entry in fading, the page or entry may, with the previous sanction of
the Inspector-General of Registration, be recopied on the copy sheets used for sending copies of registered documents
under Sections 65 and 66 of the Act. Before applying for sanction to recopying, the Registrar shall satisfy himself by
personal inspection that recopying is necessary. The entries recopied shall be carefully compared and signed by the
copyist and the comparer and shall then be certified as "true copies" under the signature of the Registering Officer. The
original shall be faithfully reproduced as it is found, and any missing or undecipherable letters, words or figures shall not
be filled up by guessing from the context. A note shall be made regarding portions not legible or visible.
Note :- Documents originally copied in Modi or Urdu Character shall be recopied in the Balbodha or Deonagri character
and shall be certified as "True transliterations" instead of as "True Copies."
126.
Transfer of books by Sub-Registrars.
- In the month of January in each year, Sub-Registrars shall transfer to the offices of their respective Registrars the
following books, registers and file books when the last entry made in each of them bears a date three years old and the
book is full :-
126. Book Nos. 1, 3 and 4 (with their indexes) and [book Nos. 6, 7, 7-A and 8, i.e., supplementary book No. 1 and
additional hook Nos. 1. 3 and 4]
Page 25/47
----- PAGE 26 -----
The M.P. Registration Rules, 1939
[Substituted by Notification No. 5038-III-82, dated 18-11-1982.]
, register of thumb impression, minute book and file book Part I only.
Applications for Inspections, Searches and Copies
127.
Inspection, search and grant of copies.
- Section 57 (1) of the Act permits any person to inspect books 1 and 2 and the indexes belonging to book 1 and to
obtain copies of entries therein. Section 57 (2) of the Act confines the exercise of these privileges within narrow limits,
that is to say, it does not permit of inspection of book 3, and so long as the executants are alive, copies of entries in that
book or in the index relating there to can be granted only to persons executing the documents to which such entries
relate or to their agents, and, after the death of the executants, to any person applying for such copies. By Section 57 (3)
of the Act, the privilege of obtaining copies from book 4 are also restricted and may be exercised only by persons
executing or claiming under the documents or by their representatives or agents. It is further laid down that the requisite
search for entries in books 3 and 4 shall be made only by the Registering Officer. It should, therefore, be borne in mind
that neither these books nor their indexes are to be put into the hands of any person for the purposes of search. It must
be noted that the Act does not contemplate the inspection of, or the grant of copies of entries in book 5, so neither
inspection of that book nor the grant of copies of entries in it is permissible. These distinctions must be every carefully
noted when applications for inspections, search or copies are received.
128.
All inspection shall be made in the presence of the Registering Officer and the law does not authorise the making of
copies while inspecting books, etc. any copy required must be duly applied for in writing.
129.
Applications for inspection, search or copies.
- All applications for inspection, search or copies (including copies of reasons for refusal to register) shall be made in
writing.
130.
On the application shall be entered the date of its receipt, the date on which it was complied with, the mode of
compliance, and the amount of fees paid in connection with it. It shall then be filed and be given a serial number.
131.
Receipts shall be given for all applications for copies, inspections or searches and for fees paid thereon. If the
application is for a copy, note shall be made on the receipt specifying the probable date on which the copy will be ready
for delivery. The provisions of Rule 46 shall mutalis mutandis apply to receipts given under this rule.
131A.
[
[Inserted by Notification No. 10-1-III-87-90, dated 20-7-1990.]
A register shall he maintained in each Registration Office in Form No. 7 Appendix C.]
132.
Exemption from inspection, search or copying fees.
- No fees are payable under Section 71 of the Act for copies of reasons for refusal to register. If such copies are granted
by Sub-Registrars to persons executing or claiming under the document; but for copies given by Registrars of
Headquarters Sub-Registrars, copying fees must be paid by the applicant, as Section 76 of the Act does not exempt
them. It should, however, be noted that copies of entries in book 2 granted to persons other than the executants or the
claimants, as also those granted even to the executants or claimants on the second or subsequent occasion, are not so
exempt, and copying fees shall be levied on them. The copies shall be given immediately on receipt of the application,
and the latter shall be dealt with as prescribed in Rule 130.
133.
Refusal of inspection of copies.
- If the application is not complied with, the reasons for non-compliance shall be endorsed on the application which shall
be returned to the presenter, provided that no fee of any kind has been realised in respect thereof. An application for
which a search or inspection fee has been realised shall be considered to have been partially complied with and shall
not therefore be returned. A copy of such reason shall invariably be made in the minute book whether the application is
rejected immediately or after some interval and the applicant then informed that the entry sought for has not been found
Page 26/47
----- PAGE 27 -----
The M.P. Registration Rules, 1939
in the books and if he so desires, given a certificate to that effect.
134.
Topics applied for in person.
- Applications for copies of entries contained in the registers of any sub-office or in books which have, under Rule 126
been transferred to the office of a Registrar, may be made personally or by post. If they are made personally, they shall
be dealt with in accordance with the foregoing instructions. If they are made by post, they shall be disposed of as shown
in Rule 135.
135.
Topics applied for by post.
(1)
Applications for copies may be made by post anil addressed to the Registrar or Sub-Registrar as the case may be, with
the following particulars, namely :-
(a)
the names of the executant of, and claimant under, the document;
(b)
the nature of the document;
(c)
the name of the village wherein the immovable property, if any, affected by the document is situate; and
(d)
the date and place or registration.
(2)
The applications shall be signed and dated by the applicants, who should give their addresses fully and specify clearly
the village, post office, tehsil and district. In no cases, however, may copies of entries in hook 3, and in the index relating
thereto, be given on applications by post if the death of testator has not already been proved.
136.
Every application shall be submitted on plain paper, to which a two-anna Court-fee label shall be affixed, and it shall be
accompanied by a money order of such amount as will approximately cover the cost of the stamp paper used in
preparing the copy plus the requisite copying fees, etc.
137.
If the information originally given is insufficient to enable the document, a copy of which is applied for, to be traced, a
service post card shall be sent to the applicant requesting him to remit the necessary' search tee, the minimum amount
of which is one rupee, if the search has to be made from books or Indexes I, III and IV, and eight annas when search
has to be made from mauzawar Index II. If the information is sufficient, the copy shall be prepared and as soon as it is
ready, shall be despatched to the address given by the applicant together with an account of the money received from
the applicant.
138.
If the amount of the advance does not cover the whole of the charges (including stamp paper, copying fees, search fees,
postage and registration tees), the applicant will be asked to remit the balance on receipt of which copy will be prepared.
If, on the other hand, the amount of the advance is more than sufficient to cover all charges, the surplus shall be
remitted along with the copy, by money order when it is four annas or above, or in postage stamps when it is less than
four annas.
139.
Rules 137 and 138 shall also apply to applicants who attend in person and who desire that the copies should be sent by
post, provided that they supply the necessary postal envelope to the Registering Officer.
140.
The copying and search fees shall be noted in the fee book and the middle part of the receipt prescribed in Rule 23 shall
be sent to the applicant along with the copy. The receipts issued by the post office for the registered letter containing the
copy and for money order, if any, at the time of despatch, together with the acknowledgement of the delivery of the copy
and the payee's receipt for the money order, if any, received from the post office, shall be attached to the application as
evidence that the copy has been duly prepared, despatched and delivery to the applicant along with the surplus, if any.
141.
Page 27/47
----- PAGE 28 -----
The M.P. Registration Rules, 1939
Endorsements on copies issued.
(1)
All Registering Officers granting copies shall certify and seal them in the manner prescribed for copies of decrees (vide
Rule 51).
(2)
This rule applies to all copies of whatsoever description which may be prepared in a registration office.
142.
When under Section 46 (2) of the Indian Stamps Act, 1899, a Registering Officer is called upon to give an authenticated
copy of an impounded document, he shall authenticate such copy by a certificate in the following form :-
"Certified that this is a true copy of the document purporting to be executed on..............by.............., son of..............,
resident of.................., in favour of. son of.................resident of..................., impounded in order to be sent to the
Collector of..............district on the day of. 19................"
143.
Copies by whom to be made.
- No one but the Moharrir attached to the office shall be allowed to copy into or from the books or to prepare indexes or
to compile statistical returns from them :
Provided that the Registering Officer may, under a written order, specially or generally authorise a particular copyist to
make a copy or copies of entries in Urdu or other character with which the Registering Officer or his Moharrrir is not
Conversant.
144.
List of unclaimed copies.
- If a copy of document remains unclaimed for one month from the date on which it was ready for delivery or from the
date of which the cover containing the copy sent by post was returned by the post office as undelivered, it shall be
entered in the list of unclaimed copies prepared in manuscript in the following form and conspicuously exposed to public
view in the registration office concerned :-
Column (1)-
Nature of document copied.
Column (2)-
Name of applicant.
Column (3)-
Date of application.
Column (4)-
Date on which copy became ready for delivery.
Column (5)-
Date of entry in the list.
Column (6)-
Final disposal of copy with date and amount of custody fee, if
any, realized.
Column (7)-
Signature of Sub-Registrar.
Column (8)-
Remarks.
145.
Disposal of unclaimed copies.
- When an applicant fails to appear to receive a copy of a document for which he has applied, the copy shall be kept for
two months from the date on which it was ready for delivery. A notice bearing service stamp shall then be sent to the
applicant warning him that the copy will be destroyed, if not claimed within one month from the date of notice. If he does
not appear to claim it within that time, or pay postage to have it sent to him, it shall be destroyed.
Table of Registration Fees
[Prescribed by the State Government for the Madhya Pradesh under Section 78 of the Registration Act, 1908, w.e.f. the
1st March, 1975 vide Notification dated 24-2-1975, for Madhya Pradesh]
Page 28/47
----- PAGE 29 -----
The M.P. Registration Rules, 1939
I - Registration Fees (Ordinary)
(For the State of Madhya Pradesh only)
A. Documents Chargeable Advalorem Rates
Article I
For the registration of all documents other than leases :-
Rs. P.
(a)
When the[market value]
[Substituted by Notification No. 2086-3688-V-SR-75, dated 19-5-1975]
does not exceed Rs. 100
2.00
(b)
When the[market value]
[Substituted by Notification No. 2086-3688-V-SR-75, dated 19-5-1975]
exceeds Rs. 100 but does not exceed
Rs. 200
3.00
(c)
When the[market value]
[Substituted by Notification No. 2086-3688-V-SR-75, dated 19-5-1975]
exceeds Rs. 200 but does not exceed
Rs. 300
4.50
(d)
When the[market value]
[Substituted by Notification No. 2086-3688-V-SR-75, dated 19-5-1975]
exceeds Rs. 300 but does not exceed
Rs. 400
6.00
(e)
When the[market value]
[Substituted by Notification No. 2086-3688-V-SR-75, dated 19-5-1975]
exceeds Rs. 400 but does not exceed
Rs. 500
7.50
(f)
When the[market value]
[Substituted by Notification No. 2086-3688-V-SR-75, dated 19-5-1975]
exceeds Rs. 500 but does not exceed
Rs. 600
9.00
(g)
When the[market value]
[Substituted by Notification No. 2086-3688-V-SR-75, dated 19-5-1975]
exceeds Rs. 600 but does not exceed
Rs. 700
10.50
(h)
When the[market value]
[Substituted by Notification No. 2086-3688-V-SR-75, dated 19-5-1975]
exceeds Rs. 700 but does not
Page 29/47
----- PAGE 30 -----
The M.P. Registration Rules, 1939
exceed Rs. 800
12.00
(i)
When the[market value]
[Substituted by Notification No. 2086-3688-V-SR-75, dated 19-5-1975]
exceeds Rs. 800 but does not
exceed Rs. 900
13.50
(j)
When the[market value]
[Substituted by Notification No. 2086-3688-V-SR-75, dated 19-5-1975]
exceeds Rs. 900 but does not exceed
Rs. 1000
15.00
(k)
When the[market value]
[Substituted by Notification No. 2086-3688-V-SR-75, dated 19-5-1975]
exceeds Rs. 1,000 but does not
exceed Rs. 10,000 for every Rs. 500 or part of Rs. 500 in excess
of Rs. 1,000
5.00
(l)
When the[market value]
[Substituted by Notification No. 2086-3688-V-SR-75, dated 19-5-1975]
exceeds Rs. 10,000 but does not
exceed Rs. 50,000 for every Rs. 500 or part of Rs. 500 in excess
of Rs. 10,000
5.50
(m)
When the[market value]
[Substituted by Notification No. 2086-3688-V-SR-75, dated 19-5-1975]
exceeds Rs. 50,000 for every
Rs. 500 or part of Rs. 500 in excess of Rs. 50,000
4.00
(n) [
[Substituted by Notification No. 6646-6262-V-SR, dated 10-12-1975.]
When the transaction is not capable of being valued in terms
of money.
150.00]
Notes :- (1) The registration fee leviable upon a document purporting to give collateral or auxiliary or additional or
substituted security or security by way of further assurance, where the principal or primary mortgage is proved to the
satisfaction of the Registration Officer to have been duly registered shall be Rs. 5.
(2)
[ In the case of an instrument of partition the market value of the separated share or shares on the basis of which stamp
duty has been paid may be taken as the market value for the purpose of determining the registration fee.]
[Substituted by Notification No. 6646-6262-V-SR, dated 10-12-1975.]
(3)
The market value as slated in a document shall for the basis determining the registration fees. In cases in which no
market value is stated, an opportunity shall be given to the party concerned to State market value and on his failure to
avail of the opportunity, the registering officer shall proceed to assess the registration fees-
(i)
Page 30/47
----- PAGE 31 -----
The M.P. Registration Rules, 1939
under item (n) of the articles, or
(ii)
on the basis of the consideration expressed in the document, whichever is more.
(4)
When an agreement to sell, mortgage, etc., for a definite sum is executed and presented for registration and, ad valorem
registration fee should be charged on such sum. A fixed fee of Rs. 5 only should be levied on the actual conveyance,
mortgage, etc. subsequently tendered for registration, provided that the registration of the previous agreement has been
proved to the satisfaction of the Registering Officer.
(5)
A fixed fee of Rs. 15 only shall be levied on a hypothecation bond executed by proprietary firm or partnership by way of
security for loans advanced to it by a bank.
(6)
[ The maximum limit of registration fee chargeable in respect of a mortgage deed executed by a "New Industry" in the
field of energy generation and mineral oil refining, for raising capital to set up the industry, shall be rupees one lac.
[Inserted by Notification No. (47) B-4-45-98-CTD-5, dated 13-10-1999.]
Explanation : - For this purpose, "New Industry" means an industrial unit which has not gone into production before
19-8-1999 and is so certified by the Commissioner of Industries or any Officer appointed by him in this behalf.]
(7)
[ When a power of attorney, general or special, authorising the agent to transfer immovable property and chargeable
with ad valorem stamp duty is executed and presented for registration, an ad valorem registration fee under this Article
should be charged on such power of attorney. If a conveyance relating to that property is executed in pursuance of
power of attorney between the executant of power of attorney and the person in whose favour it is executed, the fees on
conveyance shall be the fees calculated on the market value of the property reduced by fees paid on the power of
attorney.]
[Inserted by Notification No. (32) B-4-3-2001-CT-V, dated 6-9-2001, w.e.f. 13-9-2001.]
(8)
[ Registration fees at the rate of 0.5 per cent of the amount secured, subject to a maximum of one thousand rupees,
shall be levied on an instrument of agreement relating to the deposit of title deeds.]
[Inserted by Notification No. (36) B-4-48-05-2-IV, dated 5-9-2005.]
Article II
For the registration of leases :-
Rs. P.
Three-fourths of the value of the stamp duty payable on the
lease subject to a minimum of
[Rs. 50]
[Substituted by Notification No. (32) B-4-3-2001-CT-V, dated 6-9-2001.]
If the lease is exempt from Stamp Duty, a fee of
[Rs. 50.00]
[Substituted by Notification No. (32) B-4-3-2001-CT-V, dated 6-9-2001.]
[Note :- The term "lease" used in this Article includes a patta or kabuliyat not being a counterpart of a lease.]
[Substituted by Notification No. (32) B-4-3-2001-CT-V, dated 6-9-2001.]
B. Document Chargeable With Fixed Fees
[Article III]
[Substituted by Not In. No. (32) B-4-3-2001-CT-V, dated 6-9-2001.]
For the registration of-
Rs. P.
(a)
A will
200.00
(b)
An authority to adopt or adoption deed
Page 31/47
----- PAGE 32 -----
The M.P. Registration Rules, 1939
100.00
(c)
A general power-of-attorney (excluding those chargeablewith
ad valoremstamp duty), deed of divorce or certified copy of a
decree or order of Court.
100.00]
[Article IV]
[Substituted by Notification No. (32) B-4-3-2001-CT-V, dated 6-9-2001.]
For the registration of-
(1)
A separate deed acknowledging receipt of payment of
consideration on account of another deed which has been
previously registered; and
The same fee as would be required for registration of the
principal deed if such fees does not exceed Rs. 100 otherwise Rs.
100.
(2)
A document amending, modifying or correcting but not
cancelling any previously registered deed.
The same fee as would be required for registration of the
principal deed if such fees does not exceed Rs. 100, otherwise
Rs. 100.]
[Article V]
[Substituted by Notification No. (32) B-4-3-2001-CT-V, dated 6-9-2001.]
Tor the registration of-
Rs. P.
(a)
Special power-of-attorney (excluding those chargeable with ad
valorem stamp duty)
50.00
(b)
Agreement of service or hire
50.00
(c)
Counterparts or duplicates of instruments
100.00
(d)
Consent deed without any consideration
100.00
(e)
Agreement styled as a lease without any premium or rent
100.00
(f)
Any other document which cannot he brought under any other
article of this table
50.00
(g)
Security or mortgage deed for loan under the Land Improvement
or Agriculturists' Loans Act.
10.00
Note:- (1) Consents without consideration whether recorded on the principal deeds or made the subject of separate
Page 32/47
----- PAGE 33 -----
The M.P. Registration Rules, 1939
documents, constitute separate instruments, and should be charged to a registration fee under clause (d).
(2)
Consents granted for consideration, whether endorsed on the principal deed or on deeds drawn up separately, should
be charged under the ad valorem scale prescribed in Article I of the Fee Fable; but when such consent is endorsed on
the principal document chargeable under Article I, the Registering Officer should levy a registration fee under that
Article, on the aggregate of the amounts of consideration for both transactions.]
[Article VI]
[Substituted by Notification No. (32) B-4-3-2001-CT-V, dated 6-9-2001.]
For the registration of a document cancelling any previously
registered document, a surrender of lease or a transfer of lease,
without any consideration.
The same fee as would be required for registration of the
original document subject to a maximum of Rs. 100 only.]
II - Registration Fees (Extraordinary)
[Article VII]
[Substituted by Notification No. (32) B-4-3-2001-CT-V, dated 6-9-2001]
Extra fees for registration ofany document by Registrar.
Rs. 200.00 in addition to theordinary fee.
Note : - The extra fee under the Article is not payable on the registration of wills and Authorities to adopt, nor will it be
levied in cases where the Sub-Registrar owing to his being interested in the transaction or for any other sufficient reason
is unable to register himself.]
III - Fees Incidental to Registration
[Article VIII]
[Substituted by Notification No. (32) B-4-3-2001-CT-V, dated 6-9-2001]
1. Payable in all cases :-
Rs. P.
(a)
Fixed fee for copying the endorsement on documents
10.00
(b)
for copying registered documents into the appropriate book
(for each folio or fraction of a folio of words 100.)
2.50
Note : - If a document relates to immovable property situate in more districts than one and a copy thereof has to be
forwarded to another district or other districts under Section 65 or 66, copying fee shall be payable twice over (or thrice,
etc. as the case may be), once for the original copying into the register, and again for making the copy or copies for
despatch (vide Article XVII), except as provided in Note (4) of that Article.]
[Article IX]
[Substituted by Notification No. (32) B-4-3-2001-CT-V, dated 6-9-2001.]
Rs.P.
(a)
For comparing printed copies of printed documents presented
for registration, for each folio or fraction of a folio of 100
words.
0.50
(b)
For filing each copy
10.00]
[Article X]
[Substituted by Notification No. (32) B-4-3-2001-CT-V, dated 6-9-2001.]
Payable in special cases :-
Page 33/47
----- PAGE 34 -----
The M.P. Registration Rules, 1939
Rs.P.
For every copy of a memorandum to be sent under Sections64,
65 and 66, a uniform fee of
10.00
Note : - (1) No fee will be charged for the issue of a memorandum under Sections 64 and 65 when a copy of a decree or
order of Court relating to immovable property is presented for registration under Section 29 in the office of the Sub
Registrar or District Registrar, in whose sub-district or district no portion of the property is situated.
(2)
No fee will be charged for the issue of a memorandum under Section 65 (1) in cases where the Sub-Registrar, owing to
his being interested in the transaction or to his being unacquainted with the language in which the deed is written, or tor
any other sufficient reason, is unable to register himself.]
[Article XI]
[Substituted by Notification No. (32) B-4-3-2001-CT-V, dated 6-9-2001.]
Rs.P.
For filing a translation or transliteration (Section 62)
10.00]
[Article XII]
[Substituted by Notification No. (32) B-4-3-2001-CT-V, dated 6-9-2001.]
For the return of registered document by post-
Rs.P.
(a)
For a single document
30.00
(b)
For every additional document to be returned in the same
registered cover.
15.00]
[Article XIII]
[Substituted by Notification No. (32) B-4-3-2001-CT-V, dated 6-9-2001.]
(a)
For the custody of a document which has remained unclaimed
for one month from the date on which it was endorsed registered
or registration refused.
Rs. 10/- for each month or a portion of a month after the
first month during which the document is unclaimed.
(b)
For the custody of a copy of a document which has been
presented for registration or registered, when such a copy has
been prepared in the registration office on the application of
any person and is unclaimed for one month from the date the copy
was ready for delivery to the applicant.
Rs. 5.00 for each month or a portion of a month after the
first month during which the copy is unclaimed.
Note :- The maximum fee is Rs. 100/- for a document and Rs. 50/- for a copy.]
IV - Fees for Visits and Commissions
[Article XIV]
[Substituted by Notification No. (32) B-4-3-2001-CT-V, dated 6-9-2001.]
For each attendance at a private residence or jail under Section 31, 33 or 38 or for the issue of a commission under
Section 33 or 38 -
Rs.P.
(i)
Page 34/47
----- PAGE 35 -----
The M.P. Registration Rules, 1939
If the person is in jail
50.00
(ii)
If a the person is physically unable to attend the office
75.00
(iii)
Otherwise
150.00
Notes :- (1) The fee mentioned in this Article shall be charged in addition to the ordinary fee and Travelling allowance at
the rate of Rs. 3.00 per kilometer for the Registration Officer and at the rate of 1.50 paise per kilometer for peon
accompanying the Registering Officer.
(2)
When an attendance takes place under both Sections 31 and 38 at the same time and place relating to registration of
one document, only one attendance fee and one registration fee will be levied. If a Registering Officer, when the
registration of one document is concerned, attends on the presenter on one occasion and the executant on another
necessary witness on another occasion, two attendance fees will be levied. If a Registering Officer attends at a private
residence or jail and one person present several documents or one or more persons admit the execution of several
documents jointly executed by them all at one and the same time and place, only one attendance fee will be levied, but
the registration fee will be levied in the case of each document. Where several persons at one and the same time and
place present for registration or admit execution of several different documents not jointly executed by them, the
Registering Officer will levy one attendance fee for each district transaction, the registration fees being payable on all
such documents.
(3)
For every attendance at a private residence of a nurse or a female assistant, if required to accompany a Registering
Officer to lake the thumb impression of one or more female executants who are purdahnashine or of high birth, an extra
fee of Rs. 50 shall be charged irrespective of the number of documents registered at such private residence.
(4)
The fee leviable under this Article shall not be chargeable for attendance of private residence for registration of
documents executed in favour of the Government of Madhya Pradesh for the purpose of land acquisition :
Provided that when a Sub Registrar is required to attend second time in respect of the registration of the same
instrument due to absence of the owner of the land, full lees leviable under this article shall be charged from the said
owner.
(5)
All fees recovered under this article will be credited into the treasury suo-treasury. Thereafter, the Registering Officer will
be entitled to the whole amount of travelling allowance specified in note (1). The amount shall be drawn and paid to him.
Similarly, the peon will be paid the amount realised under note (2) and the nurse will be paid the amount realised under
note (4). ]
V - Fees for Late Presentation and Late Appearance
Article XV
Fine for late presentation (Section 25) and late appearance (Section 34) shall be regulated by the scale given below :-
Scale
(a)
Where the delay does not exceed a month, a fine of twice the amount of the proper registration fee;
(b)
Where the delay exceeds one month, but does not exceed two months, a fine of four times the amount of the proper
registration fee;
(c)
Where the delay exceeds two months, but does not exceed three months, a fine of six times the amount of the proper
registration fee;
(d)
Where the delay exceeds three months, but docs not exceed four months, a fine of ten times the amount of the proper
Page 35/47
----- PAGE 36 -----
The M.P. Registration Rules, 1939
registration fee.
Note :- In calculating the time when period begins to run, it must be borne in mind that the words "from the date" and
"from the day" used in Section 23, exclude from the period the date of execution of the document and the day on which
the decree or order of the Court was made be or become final, as the case may be (Section 3, clause 2 of the General
Clauses Act, 1897).
VI - Fee for Searches and for Copies
[Article XVI]
[Substituted by Notification No. (32) B-4-3-2001-CT-V, dated 6-9-2001.]
Rs. P.
(a)
For a search made by a Registering Officer for each entry or
document
5.00 foreach year
(b)
For allowing an appellant to inspect for each entry or
document
10.00 foreach year
(c)
Notwithstanding anything contained in clause (b) fees for
allowing the inspection for the purpose of securing loans for
agricultural purposes from the authorised banks shall be in the
case of-
(i)
Bhumiswami belonging to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes
Nil
(ii)
Bhumiswami not covered by item (i) above the holding land not
exceeding 10 hectares
25.00]
[Article XVII]
[Substituted by Notification No. (32) B-4-3-2001-CT-V, dated 6-9-2001.]
(a)
For making or granting copies of reasons, entries and
documents for the benefit of any person; or to be forwarded to
any other officer under Sections 65, 66 and 67
The same fee as is chargeable under Article VIII (b) and in
addition a fixed fee chargeable under Article VIII (a) :Provided
that an additional fee of Rs. 2.00 for each page shall be
chargeable in case the copies are made by Photocopy Machine.
(b)
For making or granting such copies expeditiously.
Double the fee chargeable under clause (a).
Note : - (1) If an application for copy of any entry gives any one of the following particulars, no search fee is to be
levied.-
(a)
Names of the claimant and executant, nature of the document and date of registration and in the case of an application
by an executant, the date of admission, or
(b)
The book, volume and page or serial number of the document with year.
(2)
Servants of the Government who may require to inspect of search the registers for bonafide public purposes are
Page 36/47
----- PAGE 37 -----
The M.P. Registration Rules, 1939
exempted from the payment of fees.
(3)
Copies of reasons for refusal when granted by Sub-Registrars to persons claiming under or executing documents are
exempt from fees (Vide Section 71).
(4)
No fee under this Article shall be charged for the issue of a copy under Section 65 or 66 when a copy of a decree or
order of Court, relating to immovable property, is presented for registration under Section 29 in the office of the
Sub-Registrar or District Registrar, in whose sub-district or district no portion of the property affected is situated.
(5)
Servants of the Government who require copies of entries or documents for bonafide public purposes are exempted
from the payment of fees.]
[Article XVIII]
[Substituted by Notification No. (32) B-4-3-2001-CT-V, dated 6-9-2001.]
Rs. P.
For granting copy of a map (provided the applicant makes his
own arrangement for the preparation of such copy and bears the
cost thereof).
10.00
Note :- Servants of the Government who require copies of maps for bonafide public purposes are exempted from the
payment of fees.]
VII-Fees for Miscellaneous Proceedings
[Article XIX]
[Substituted by Notification No. (32) B-4-3-2001-CT-V, dated 6-9-2001.]
Rs.P.
(a)
For deposit of a sealed cover containing a will
100.00
(b)
For opening or withdrawal of such cover.
50.00]
Note:- For opening the sealed covers, the fees of copying the contents according to the scale laid down in Article VIII
shall be charged additionally.]
[Article XX]
[Substituted by Notification No. (32) B-4-3-2001-CT-V, dated 6-9-2001.]
For attestation of power of attorney,-
Rs.P.
(a)
If special
10.00
(b)
If general
20.00]
VIII - Fees for Applications and Issues of Processes
Article XXI
(1)
The fees payable under the Court Fees Act for application to Revenue Officers shall be levied on all applications which
are required by law to be made in writing to Registering Officers.
(2)
The same Ices as are required to be paid by the rules made under the Court Fees Act for the issue of processes by Civil
Courts shall be levied on process issued by Registering Officers.
Note 1. - (a) A Court fee of [two rupees]
Page 37/47
----- PAGE 38 -----
The M.P. Registration Rules, 1939
[Substituted by Notification No. (32) B-4-3-2001-CT-V, dated 6-9-2001.]
under clause (a) Article 1 of Schedule I to the Court Fees Act, 1870, shall be charged on every application made to a
Registering Officer under Section 57 of the Registration Act, 1908 for a copy of an entry in any of book Nos. 1, 2, 3 and
4 or in Index No. I or II relating thereto.
(b)
A Court fee of [five rupees]
[Substituted by Notification No. (32) B-4-3-2001-CT-V, dated 6-9-2001.]
under clause (b) of Article I of Schedule II to the Court Fees Act, 1870, shall be changed in every application to a
Registering Officer under Section 57 of Registration Act 1908 for the inspection of any number of entries in book No. 1
or 2 or in Index No. 1 or II relating thereto, for a search to be made by a Registering Officer of any number of entries in
said books in indexes, or in book No. 3 of 4, or in index relating to these books.
Note 2. - No Court fee shall be charged on an application made by a servant of the Government for copies of entries or
documents or for the inspection or search of the registers required for a bonafide public purpose.
Article XXII
A fixed fee of [Rs. 50]
[Substituted by Notification No. (32) B-4-3-2001-CT-V, dated 6-9-2001.]
shall be levied-
1. (a) For the presentation of each appeal under Section 72 or application under Section 73 against the orders of a
Sub-Registrar refusing to register a document;
(b)
For an enquiry in under Section 74;
(c)
For an inquiry by a Sub-Registrar invested with the powers of a Registrar under the second proviso to sub-section (3) of
Section 35, in respect of documents, the execution of which is denied.
2. A fixed fee for [Rs. 10]
[Substituted by Notification No. (32) B-4-3-2001-CT-V, dated 6-9-2001.]
shall be levied in respect of the following :-
(a)
for each application made to a Sub-Registrar under Section 25(2) and 34(4);
(b)
for each application made to a Registering Officer under Section 36 for enforcing the appearance of executants and
witnesses;
(c)
for filing a translation of a power of attorney produced by an agent with or in connection with a document presented for
registration when the power of attorney is written in language not commonly used in the district;
(d)
for filing a special power of attorney produced with or in connection with a document presented for registration;
(e)
for each application for the return of all will registered or refused to be registered and transmitted to the Registrar's office
for safe custody;
(f)
for each petition presented to a Registering Officer objecting to the return of a document to a person in whose favour the
receipt has been drawn up;
(g)
for each application claiming remission or refund of the fine levied under Sections 25 (1) and 34 (1).
3. A fixed free of [Rs. 10]
[Substituted by Notification No. (32) B-4-3-2001-CT-V, dated 6-9-2001.]
shall be levied :
(a)
for each petition presented to a Registering Officer protesting against the registration of document.
Note:- No fees shall be levied on petitions, from Secretaries of District Sailor's Soldier's and Airmen's Boards contesting
Page 38/47
----- PAGE 39 -----
The M.P. Registration Rules, 1939
alleged illegal sales of soldiers :
Provided that in cases falling under clause (a) if protest is made against the registration of more than one document in a
petition, the fee payable for the petition shall be calculated at the rate of [Rs. 10]
[Substituted by Notification No. (32) B-4-3-2001-CT-V, dated 6-9-2001.]
for each of such documents specified in the petition and if the number of such documents is not specified in the petition,
a fee of [Rs. 50]
[Substituted by Notification No. (32) B-4-3-2001-CT-V, dated 6-9-2001.]
shall be levied for such petition.
(b)
for each petition presented to a Registering Officer-
(i)
for withdrawing a document from registration;
(ii)
for complete or partial refusal to register a document;
(iii)
for keeping a document pending appearance of parties executing it.
4. (a) A fixed fee of [Rs. 50]
[Substituted by Notification No. (32) B-4-3-2001-CI V, dated 6-9-2001.]
shall he levied for each application presented to a Registering Officer to accept a document for registration at his office
on a holiday on the ground of special urgency.
(b)
A fixed fee of [Rs. 50]
[Substituted by Notification No. (32) B-4-3-2001-CI V, dated 6-9-2001.]
shall be levied for each application presented to a Registering Officer to accept a sealed cover purporting to a contain a
will for deposit under Section 42 on an authorised holiday on the ground of special emergency.
(c)
A fixed fee of [Rs. 50]
[Substituted by Notification No. (32) B-4-3-2001-CI V, dated 6-9-2001.]
shall be levied for each application presented to a Registering Officer to accept a power-of-attorney for attestation only
or for attestation and registration at his office on a holiday on the ground of special emergency.
(d)
For the registration of a document partially refused in the first instance and directed to be registered by a Registrar
under Section 75 copying fee at the prescribed rate shall be levied.
Exemption and Reductions
Fees leviable under Articles I to X and XVII for issue of copies under Sections 65 to 67 of the Registration Act, 1908,
shall not be chargeable in respect of the following :-
1. Documents executed by, or in favour of Government on which as such no stamp duty is leviable under Section 3,
Proviso I, of the India Stamp Act, 1899
2. Mortgage deeds executed by servants of the Government in civil or military service for securing the repayment of
advances received from any Government for the purpose of constructing or purchasing dwelling houses for their own
use.
3. Security bonds and bonds on account of advances made for the purposes of obtaining uniform executed in favour of
any Government by public servants of all classes and their sureties.
4. Any instrument of reconveyance of mortgaged property executed by any Government in favour of an officer in civil or
military service, on the payment of an advance received by him from Government, for the purpose of constructing or
purchasing a dwelling house for his own use.
5. Any agreement executed by the owner of a house in favour of the State Government as a fit place for the purpose of
being used as a licensee's liquor shop, on a rent fixed by the Collector.
6. A deed of gift of immovable property executed in favour of the managing committee or the trustees of an educational
institution recognized by the State Government as a Vidhya Mandir or established under the Central Provinces and
Berar Vidhya Mandir Act, 1939 (III of 1940).
Page 39/47
----- PAGE 40 -----
The M.P. Registration Rules, 1939
7. Indentures by way of mortgage executed by Managers of Aided Institutions in consideration of building grants
received from the State Government.
8. Mortgage deeds executed on or after the 17th September, 1945 by officers of Government in Civil and Military employ
for securing the repayment of advances received from Government for the purpose of purchasing a motor car, motor
boat or motor cycle, for their own use.
9. Indentures or deeds creating trusts of movable or immovable property given to the State Government for a charitable
purpose.
10. A deed of gift of immovable property executed in favour of a Janpad Sabha for the establishment or maintenance of
a primary school under the control and management of such Janpad Sabha.
11. Mortgage deed executed by an officer of the Government of Madhya Pradesh for securing the repayment of an
advance received by him from the Madhya Pradesh Housing Board established under the Madhya Pradesh Housing
Board Act, 1950 for the purpose of constructing a dwelling house for his own residential use.
12. Instrument of reconveyance of mortgaged property executed by the Madhya Pradesh Housing Board established
under the Madhya Pradesh Housing Board Act, 1950 in favour of any officer of the Government of Madhya Pradesh on
the repayment of an advance received by him from the said Board for the purpose of constructing a dwelling house for
his own residential use.
13. Security Bond executed by the surety of an officer of the Government of Madhya Pradesh for the due performance
of the terms and conditions of the mortgage deed in Form V prescribed under the Madhya Pradesh Housing Board Act,
1950.
14. [
[Added by Notification No. 776-1155-VI-R-80, dated 24-10-1980.]
Mortgage deeds and hypothecation deeds forming part of such mortgage executed by :-
(a)
a Bhoomiswami belonging to Schedule Castes or Scheduled Tribes; or,
(b)
a Bhoomiswami not covered by (a) above and holding land not exceeding ten hectares, in favour of a Central
Development Bank within the meaning of clause (b) of Section 2 of the Madhya Pradesh Sahakari Bhoomi Vikas Bank
Adhiniyam, 1966 (No. 28 of 1966) or a Development Bank within the meaning of clause (d) of Section 2 of the said Act,
for securing loan;]
14A.
[
[Omitted by Notification No. 2847-B-6-17-CTD-V-87, dated 30-5-1992.]
Omitted.]
15. All kinds of documents executed by the Goldsmiths in connection with the grant of loan under the Madhya Pradesh
Goldsmiths Rehabilitation (Loans) Rules, 1963.
16. [16. x x x]
[Omitted by Notification No. 776-1155-VI-R-80, dated 24-10-1980.]
17. Instruments executed by or in favour of the Technical Co-operation Mission personnel (now called the U.S.A.
Agency for International Development), the incidence of which falls directly under the Act. upon them in the State of
Madhya Pradesh in respect of the use or ownership of property in Madhya Pradesh.
18. [
[Substituted by Notification No. 6259-8255-V-SR-75, dated 21-11-1975.]
Mortgage deed executed by :-]
(i)
the Bhoomiswami belonging to the Scheduled Castes or the Scheduled Tribes; or
(ii)
the Bhoomiswami not covered by (i) above and holding land not exceeding twenty-five acres;
for securing loans for agricultural purposes from the following banks namely :- (i) State Bank of India;
(ii)
State Bank of Indore;
(iii)
Page 40/47
----- PAGE 41 -----
The M.P. Registration Rules, 1939
Central Bank of India;
(iv)
Bank of India;
(v)
Punjab National Bank;
(vi)
Bank of Baroda;
(vii)
United Commercial Bank;
(viii)
Canara Bank;
(ix)
United Bank of India;
(x)
Dena Bank;
(xi)
Syndicate Bank;
(xii)
Union Bank of India;
(xiii)
Allahabad Bank;
(xiv)
Indian Bank;
(xv)
Bank of Maharashtra;
(xvi)
Indian Overseas Bank;
(xvii)
[ Regional Rural Banks established under the Regional Rural Banks Act, 1976 (
No. 21 of 1976
)]
[Added by Notification No. 878-718-VI-R-76, dated 7-11-1976.]
(xviii)
[ Punjab and Sindh Bank.]
[Added by Notification No. 294-1122-VI-R, dated 16-4-1977.]
19. Nyaspalra executed by Madhya Pradesh Rashtrabhasha Prachar Samiti in favour of Ravi Shankar Shukla Hindi
Bhavan, Bhopal.
20. [
[Added by Notification No. 710-5845-VI-R-76, dated 6-10-1976.]
Documents executed by or in favour of the sending State or head of the Mission within the meaning of Article 23, set out
in Schedule to the Diplomatic Relation (Vienna Convention) Act, 1972 (No. 43 of 1972).]
21. [
[Added by Notification No. 608-801-VI-R-78, dated 16-8-1978.]
Agreements, Security Bonds, Affidavits and other documents executed in favour of Government by the persons for
securing loans from the Madhya Pradesh Government under the scheme formulated under Planning, Economics and
Statistics Department's Memo No. 606-707-M & EA-23-R-I(iii), dated the 4th April, 1978, No. 797-M & H-78-R-1(iii),
dated the 12th May. 1978 and No. 1254-78-M & II-123-R-1(iii)-A, dated the 2nd August, 1978 read with Memo No. 75-M
& H.B. Soft Loan 1575, dated the 28th November, 1975.]
22. [
[Added by Notification No. 510-1183-VI-R-77,dated 18-7-1978.]
Sale deed executed for transfer of Sanawad Spinning Mills from Madhya Pradesh Rajya Udyog Nigam to M.P. Rajya
Page 41/47
----- PAGE 42 -----
The M.P. Registration Rules, 1939
Vastra Nigam].
23. [
[Added by Notification No. 774-1155-VI-R-80, dated 24-10-1980.]
[(a) x x x].
(b)
Instruments executed in favour of the Primary Co-operative Housing Society registered or deemed to be registered
under the Madhya Pradesh Co-operative Societies Act, 1960 (
No. 17 of 1961
) for acquisition of land for housing purchases.
(c)
Deed of mortgage or deed of assignment executed by or on behalf of a Primary Co-operative Housing Society
registered or deemed to be registered under the Madhya Pradesh Co-operative Societies Act, 1960 (
No. 17 of 1961
) for securing loan from any institution or society for the housing purposes.
(d)
Instrument of reconveyance or mortgaged property executed by any institution or society in favour of a Primary
Co-operative Housing Society registered or deemed to be registered under the Madhya Pradesh Co-operative Societies
Act, 1960 (
No. 17 of 1961
) on repayment of loan by such primary society.]
24. [
[Added by Notification No. 429-524-VI-R-79, dated 20-7-1979.]
Sale deed executed for transfer of Central Dying, Bleaching and calendering Plant, Ujjain from M.P. State Industries
Corporation to M.P. State Textile Corporation.]
25. [
[Added by Notification No. F-2-25-VI-F-1979-(ii), dated 14-9-1979.]
Mortgage deeds and other instruments executed in favour of the Trust within the meaning of clause (c) of Section 2 of
the Madhya Pradesh Ganga Jali Fund Trust Act, 1954 (No. II of 1954), in relation to utilization of the income from the
Ganga Jali Fund, for promotion and implementation of the schemes specified under sub-section (3) of Section 7 of the
said Act.]
26. [
[Added by Notification No. 223-92-VI-R-80, dated 27-3-1980.]
Gift deed valued Rs. 28,500 (Rupees twenty-eight thousand five hundred) executed by the Sai Samaj, Jabalpur.
27. Instrument of gift to be executed by the Krishi Upaj Mandi Samiti, Sonkach, in District Dewas, in favour of the Maha
Vidyalaya Samiti, Sonkach.]
28. [
[Added by Notification No. F.B-4-18-(A)-V-SE-82, dated 20-10-1982.]
Gift deed of five acres of land situated in Ratlam district executed by Mr. Jamashedji, contractor in favour of the
missionaries of Charity, C/o. Catholic Church, Ratlam.]
29. [
[Added by Notification No. F.B-4-6-V-SR-83, dated 1-4-1983.]
Gift deed of Kh. No. 660, area 1.12 acres land, situated in Mouza Juna Bilaspur, district Bilaspur, executed by Shri E.
Ashok Rao S/o Late R. Raghvendra Rao of Bilaspur in favour of M.E.S. Law College, Bilaspur.]
30. [
[Added by Notification No. 3122-B-4-19-V-SR-85, dated 22-7-1985.]
The State Government remits the Registration lees chargeable on the deed of gift of plot bearing Municipal No. 143 area
2869 sq. feet of land situated at Vidya Nagar Colony, Indore in favour of Shri Sathya Sai Institute of Higher Learning
Prasanthi Nilayam, Sri Sathya Sai Taluka, Ananthur District, Andhra Pradesh, represented by Shri Ranjeet Vithaldas.]
31. [
[Added by Notification No. 294-B-6/23/VSR/86, dated 15-5-1987.]
Remission of registration fee chargeable on sale-deed/lease deed executed by Madhya Pradesh Housing Board, Nagar
Page 42/47
----- PAGE 43 -----
The M.P. Registration Rules, 1939
Vikas Pradhikaran, Town Improvement Trust, Vishesh Kshetra Pradhikaran, Gandhi Basti Unmulan Mandal or Gramin
Awas Mandal, after the date of publication of this order in favour of persons of Economically Weaker Section and Lower
Income Group subject to the conditions that :-
(a)
Where the purchaser/lessee belongs to economically weaker section :-
(i)
he produces a certificate from the seller/lessor to the effect that he belongs to the economically weaker section;
(ii)
the cost of plot together with building thereon does not exceed Rs. 30,000 and in case of plot only the cost thereof does
not exceed Rs. 10,000, on the date of allotment of the building/plot;
(iii)
the area of plot with or without building is not more than 60 square meters.
(b)
Where the purchaser/lessee belongs to Lower Income Group :-
(i)
he produces a Certificate from the seller/lessor to the effect that he belongs to Lower Income Group;
(ii)
the cost of plot together with building thereon does not exceed Rs. 50,000 and in case of plot only the cost thereof does
not exceed Rs. 15,000, on the date of allotment of the building/plot;
(iii)
the area of plot with or without building is not more than 96 square meters.
Explanation :- For the purpose of this order :-
(i)
Purchaser/lessee belonging to economically weaker section means a person whose monthly income from all sources
does not exceed Rs. 700 on the date of allotment of the building/plot.
(ii)
Purchaser/lessee belonging to Lower Income Group means a person whose monthly income from all sources exceed
Rs. 700 but does not exceed Rs. 1,500 on the date of allotment of the building/plot.]
32. [ Remission of registration fee chargeable on sale deed of plot bearing No. 6-B and 6-C, area 2738 Sq. Ft. and 2889
Sq. Ft. of respectively situated at Kailash Park, Manoramaganj Indore, to be executed by Shri Gendalal S/o Chhotclal
Chowrishi and Shrimati Premala W/o Kanhaiyalal, Shrimati Savita W/o Sanjay Kumar and Kumari Manjula D/o Gendalal
Chowrishi, all residents of Indore, in favour of Shri Gceta Bhawan Trust Manoramaganj, Indore.]
[Added by Notification No. 5642-B-4-15-V-SR-87, dated 16-11-1987.]
33. [ Remission of registration fee chargeable on instrument of sale deeds/lease deeds executed by Primary
Co-operative Housing Societies registered or deemed to be registered under the Madhya Pradesh Co-operative
Societies Act, 1960 (
No. 17 of 1961
) after the date of publication of this order in favour of persons of economically weaker section and Lower Income Group
subject to the conditions that :-
(A)
Where the purchaser/lessee belongs to economically weaker section ;-
(i)
he produces an affidavit in the form annexed to tins notification (with the deed);
(ii)
the cost of plot together with building thereon does not exceed Rs. 30,000 and in case of plot only the cost thereof does
not exceed Rs. 10,000, on the date of allotment of the building/plot;
(iii)
the area of plot with or without building is not more than 60 square meters.
(iv)
the plot/building is for residential purpose only.
(B)
Page 43/47
----- PAGE 44 -----
The M.P. Registration Rules, 1939
Where the purchaser/lessee belongs to lower Income Group :-
(i)
he produces an affidavit in the form annexed to this notification (with the deed);
(ii)
the cost of plot together with building thereon does not exceed Rs. 50,000 and in case of plot only the cost thereof does
not exceed Rs. 15.000, on the date of allotment of the building/plot;
(iii)
the area of plot with or without building is not more than % square meters.
(iv)
the plot/building is for residential purpose only :
Provided that remission under this order,-
(i)
shall not be available in case of partly constructed building;
(ii)
shall be available on first conveyance deed executed by the seller/lesser.
Explanation :- For the purpose of this order :-
(i)
purchaser/lessee belonging to economically weaker sections means a person whose monthly income from all sources
does not exceed Rs. 700.00 on the date of allotment of the building/plot.
(ii)
purchaser/lessee belonging to Lower Income Group means a person whose monthly income from all sources exceeds
Rs 700.00 but does not exceed Rs. 1,500.00 on the date of allotment of the building/plot.
Affidavit
I declare on oath that :-
1. My name is father's name  age  Cask (In case of Scheduled Castes/Tribes).
2. I am a permanent resident of................. Tehsil of...........  District............... of M.P. since............. years.
3. Following are the members of my family :-
(1)
....................................(Wife age.....)
(2)
....................................(Son age......)
(3)
....................................(Daughter age.)
(if mother-father are dependent State their names/age)
4. There is no residential building in my own name or in the name of the above mentioned number of my family in M.P.
5. My occupation is (if employed on monthly salary basis in Government or private institution enclose certificate of post
held and pay from the employer).
6. My annual income from this occupation and other sources is Rs...............(State last year's income).
7. The plot/plot together with building constructed thereon, allotted to me by the..............Primary Co-operative I lousing
Society measures...........square meters. On the date of allotment the cost of the same is Rs.................A certificate of the
society to this effect is enclosed.
8. I am a member of the above mentioned Primary Co-operative Mousing Society. My membership No. is.................
9. I am not a registered Sales Tax payee. My Sales Tax Registration No. is............
10. I do not pay Income Tax.
11. Description of my Commercial premises is as follows :-
(1)
Commercial premises dimensions of which are sq. meters is situated at (State complete postal address).
(2)
Commercial premises is held on ownership/rental basis. I pay to Shri..........(name and address of the shop owner)
monthly rent of Rs.........
(3)
Page 44/47
----- PAGE 45 -----
The M.P. Registration Rules, 1939
In the above commercial premises trade/production of.................is carried out. Stock value on the date of declaration is
Rs.........approximately.
(4)
My shop is registered by the Labour Department of Government of M.P its registration No. is...............
12. I own Motor Car/Motor Cycle and its Registration No. is...............
Note :- All items from 1 to 12 shall be retained as above. Portion not applicable may be struck off by a line.
Place..................
?.................................
Dale...................
Signature (Declarant).
Verification
I............................verify that contents from No. 1 to 12 of the aforesaid declaration are true to the best of my knowledge
and belief.
Place..................
?.................................
Date...................
Signature (Declarant).
Certificate
Primary Co-operative Housing Society.................................. (Name and Registration No.).
Certified that Shri.............Father's name.........Address is a member of this society. His membership No. is.........  on.........
 (dale) plot No......... situated in ................ (State scheme No., name of colony, address) measuring........... sq. metre/plot
No.......... and building construction thereon situated in (State scheme No., name of colony, address) measuring...........
sq. meter of which the value is Rs............. has been allotted to him.
Signature
President/Chairman
Primary Co-operative Society.
Note : - If only plot is allotted the area and value of plot and if plot together with building constructed thereon is allotted
area and value of plot and building constructed thereon shall be certified separately.]
34. [
[Added by Notification No. 4841-B-4-5-V-SR-87, dated 30-11-1988.]
Remission of registration fees chargeable on lease deed for and bearing in scheme No. 54, 8095 square Meters Near
Meghdoot Upwan Indore situated at Indore to be executed by Indore Development Authority in favour of Shri Sarda
Mandal, 16/25, Anup Nagar, Indore.]
[Added by Notification No. F-3151-B-4-3-VSR-88, dated 13-7-1988.]
35. [
[Added by Notification No. 941-B-6-17-V-SR-88, dated 9-3-1989.]
Remission of Registration Fees chargeable on instruments of agreement executed by units under Khadi and
Gramodhyog Board for obtaining assistance from the Board.]
36. [
[Substituted by Notification No. 28-B-6-17-CTD-V-88, dated 13-12-1990.]
Remission of Registration Fees chargeable on instruments of mortgage-deed executed by Small Scale Industrial units
for obtaining financial assistance up to Rupees 7.5 lakhs from the Madhya Pradesh Finance Corporation.]
37. [
[Added by Notification No. 5085-B-4-6-V-SR-87, dated 19-12-1988.]
Remission of registration fee chargeable on mortgage deed, executed by servant of the Government in civil or military
service, for the purpose of securing the repayment of an advance received by him, from the Madhya Pradesh Gramin
Awas Mandal, for constructing, purchasing or repairing a dwelling house for his own use.]
38. [
[Substituted by Notification No. (19) B-17-2000-CTD-V, dated 12-7-2002.]
Remission of registration fees chargeable on sale deed/lease deed executed to acquire land in favour of a member of a
family displaced on account of Narmada Valley Projects subject to the following conditions, namely :-
Page 45/47
----- PAGE 46 -----
The M.P. Registration Rules, 1939
(a)
A certificate from the Land Acquisition Officer of the project area is obtained in which the total amount including the
amount of compensation item wise of his land and other immovable properties, special rehabilitation grant, rehabilitation
grants, etc., is mentioned. But the amount of transport fee paid for self transportation of goods shall not be included.
(b)
The agricultural land or/and other immovable property is purchased by the displaced person anywhere in the State of
Madhya Pradesh during the process of rehabilitation;
(c)
The position in clauses (a) and (b), above is expressed in the instrument of transfer itself;
(d)
The eligibility of exemption shall be limited to the amount of registration fee chargeable on the value of land and/or
immovable property or the total amount of consideration paid to the said displaced person as compensation, special
rehabilitation grant, rehabilitation grant, financial assistance, etc., whichever is less;
(e)
Only a 'displaced family" as defined in the Rehabilitation Policy shall be entitled for exemption;
(f)
Such landless displaced person and adult son, who want to purchase agricultural land and/or other immovable property
from various amounts as Rehabilitation grant, financial assistance given to purchase productive assets, financial
assistance given for developed residential plot at the rehabilitation place, shall also be entitled for the said exemption.]
39. [
[Added by Notification No. B-13-4-25-V-SR-89(3), dated 11-1-1990.]
Mortgage deed executed by Indore Table Tennis Trust, Indore in favour of the Madhya Pradesh State Co-operative
Bank Limited in consideration of the loan for Rs. 35,00,000 (Rupees thirty-five lakhs) only for the construction of Sports
Complex.]
40. [
[Added by Notification No. B-4-26-V-SR-89-(5), dated 12-2-1990.]
Registration fees chargeable of Gift Deed of one acre Agricultural Land out of Khasra No. 197 situated at Village Korba,
Tehsil and District Bilaspur, Madhya Pradesh, executed by Shri Muniram S/o Dhansay resident of Korba in favour of
Shri Sarveshvri Samooh-of Korba be reduced by 15%.]
40A.
[
[Added by Notification No. 3-B-6-1-CTD-V-91, dated 22-3-1991.]
Gift Deed executed by Shri Rana Hamuman Singh, resident of Village Badagaon, District Balaghat in favour of Indira
Gandhi Krishi Vishwa Vidyalaya, Raipur in respect of Agricultural Land situated in village Badgaon Khasra Nos. 118,
115, [26, 25, 117, 12, 11] measuring 65 acres including well and building, etc. valuing Rs. 35 lacs.]
41. [
[Added by Notification No. 7-B-4-12-CT-V-90, dated 2-4-1991.]
Reduces the Registration Fee chargeable under Article I of the table by 50 per cent, chargeable on
charge-deed/mortgage deed of Rs. 7.00 crores executed on the 25th March 1991 by Madhya Pradesh State
Co-operative Housing Federation Limited, Bhopal, in favour of Life Insurance Corporation of India.]
42. [
[Inserted by Notification No. B-4-12-90-CTD-V-90(2), dated 28-9-1992.]
Reduces the Registration fee chargeable under Article 1 of the Table by 50 per cent, chargeable on
charge-deed/mortgage deed relating to loan of Rs. 7 crores and Rs. 1 crore executed on 30th March, 1992 by Madhya
Pradesh State Co-operative Housing Federation Ltd., Bhopal in favour of the Life Insurance Corporation of India.]
43. [
[Added by Notification No. 2851-B-6-17-CTD-V-87, dated 30-5-1992.]
On instruments of sale to the extent of the value of the house/ apartment executed by Madhya Pradesh Housing Board,
Nagar Vikas Pradhikaran and Primary Co-operative Housing Society Registered, or deemed to be Registered under the
Madhya Pradesh Co-operative Societies Act, 1960 (
No. 17 of 1961
Page 46/47
----- PAGE 47 -----
The M.P. Registration Rules, 1939
), constructed under the self financing scheme with the money received from the purchaser from the date of publication
of this notification.
On such instruments the Registration fees shall be chargeable only on the value of the total area of the plot with or
without building :
Provided that the exemption under this notification shall not be available in case partly constructed house/apartment.]
44. [
[Inserted by Notification F. No. B-4-12-90-CTD-V, dated 3-5-1993.]
Reduces to 50 per cent of the rates specified in Article I of the Table of Registration Fee under the said Act on
charge-deed/mortgaged deed executed on 27th March, 1993 by Madhya Pradesh State Co-operative Housing
Federation Ltd., in favour of Life Insurance Corporation of India in connection with the grant of a loan of Rupees 8
crores.]
45. [
[Inserted by Notification F. No. B-4-12-90-CTD-V, dated 24-1-1995.]
Reduces to one half of the rates specified in Article I of the Table of Registration Fee under the said Act on mortgage
deed executed on 29th March, 1994 by Madhya Pradesh State Co-operative Housing Federation Ltd., in favour of Life
Insurance Corporation of India in connection with the grant of a loan of Rupees 6 crores.]
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 47/47