
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Suits Valuation Act, 1887
The Suits Valuation Act, 1887
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/16404616/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
3
]
State of Madhya Pradesh - Act
The Suits Valuation Act, 1887
MADHYA PRADESH
India
The Suits Valuation Act, 1887
Act 7 of 1887
Published on 1 November 1956
Commenced on 1 November 1956
[This is the version of this document from 1 November 1956.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Suits Valuation Act, 1887
(Act
No. 7 of 1887
)
An Act to prescribe the mode of valuing certain suits for the purpose of determining the jurisdiction of Courts with
respect thereto.
Whereas it is expedient to prescribe the mode of valuing certain suits for the purpose of determining the jurisdiction of
Courts with respect thereto; It is hereby enacted as follows :-
1.
Title.
- This Act may be called the Suits Valuation Act, 1887 and it extends to the whole of India except the territories which
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Suits Valuation Act, 1887
immediately before the 1st November, 1956, were comprised in Part B State, [other than the Madhya Bharat and Sironj
regions of the State of Madhya Pradesh]
[Inserted by M.P. Act No. 23 of 1958.]
.
Part I ? Suits Relating to Land
2.
Extent and commencement of Part I.
- This Part shall extend to such local areas, and come into force therein on such dates, as the State Government by
notification in the Official Gazette, directs.
3.
Power for State Government to make rules determining value of land for jurisdictional purposes.
(1)
The State Government may make rules for determining the value of land for purposes of jurisdiction in the suits
mentioned in the Court-fees Act, 1870, Section 7, paragraphs v and vi, and paragraph x, clause (d).
(2)
The rules may determine the value of any class of land, or of any interest in land, in the whole or any part of a local area,
and may prescribe different values for different places within the same local area.
4.
Valuation of relief in certain suits relating to land not to exceed the value of the land.
- Where a suit mentioned in the Court-fees Act, 1870, Section 7, Paragraph iv, or Schedule II, Article 17, relates to land
or an interest in land of which the value had been determined by rules under the last foregoing section, the amount at
which for purposes of jurisdiction the relief sought in the suit is valued shall not exceed the value of the land or interest
as determined by those rules.
5.
Making and enforcement of rules.
(1)
The State Government shall, before making rules under Section 3, consult the High Court with respect thereto.
(2)
A rule under that section shall not take effect till the expiration of one month alter the rule has been published in the
Official Gazette.
6.
Repeal of Section 14 of the Madras Civil Courts Act, 1873.
- On and from the date on which rules under Section 3 take effect in any part of the territories under the administration of
the Governor of Fort Saint George in Council to which the Madras Civil Courts Act, 1873 (3 of 1873), extends. Section
14 of that Act shall be repealed as regards that part of those territories.
Part II ? Other Suits
7.
Extent and commencement of Part II.
- [(1)]
[Renumbered by M.P. Act No. 23 of 1958.]
This Part shall come into force on the first day of July, 1887.
(2)
[ This Part shall he in force in the Madhya Bharat and Sironj regions of the State of Madhya Pradesh from the
commencement of the Madhya Pradesh Extension of Laws Act, 1958 (XXIII of 1958).]
[Inserted by M.P. Act No. 23 of 1958.]
8.
Court fee value and jurisdictional value to be the same in certain suits.
- Where in suits other than those referred to in the Court-fees Act, 1870 (7 of 1870), Section 7, Paragraphs v, vi and ix,
and paragraph x, clause (d), Court-fees are payable ad valorem under the Court-fees Act, 1870, the value as
determinable for the computation of Court-fees and the value for purposes of jurisdiction shall be the same.
9.
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Suits Valuation Act, 1887
Determination of value of certain suits by High Court.
- When the subject matter of suits of any class, other than suits mentioned in the Court-fees Act, 1870 (7 of 1870),
Section 7, Paragraphs v and vi, and paragraph x, clause (d), is such that in the opinion of the High Court it does not
admit of being satisfactorily valued, the High Court may, with the previous sanction of the State Government, direct that
suits of that class shall, for the purposes of the Court-fees Act, 1870, and of this Act and any other enactment for the
time being in force, be treated as if their subject matter were of such value as the High Court thinks fit to specify in this
behalf.
10.
Repeal of Section 32 of the Punjab Court Act, 1884 (XVIII of 1884).
- [* * *]
Part III ? Supplemental Provisions
11.
Procedure where objection is taken on appeal or revision that a suit or appeal was not properly valued for jurisdictional
purposes.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything in Section 578 of the [Code of (Civil Procedure (14 of 1882)]
[See now the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908).]
, an objection that by reason of the over-valuation or under-valuation of a suit or appeal a Court of first instance or Lower
Appellate Court which had not jurisdiction with respect to the suit or appeal exercised jurisdiction with respect thereto
shall not be entertained by an Appellate Court unless-
(a)
the objection was taken in the Court of first instance at or before the hearing at which issues were first framed and
recoded, or in the Lower Appellate Court in the memorandum of appeal to that Court, or
(b)
the Appellate Court is satisfied, for reasons to be recorded by it in writing, that the suit or appeal was over-valued or
undervalued, and that the over-valuation or under-valuation thereof has prejudicially affected the disposal of the suit or
appeal on its merits.
(2)
If the objection was taken in the manner mentioned in clause (a) of sub-section (I), but the Appellate Court is not
satisfied as to both the matters mentioned in clause (b) of that sub-section and has before it the materials necessary for
the determination of the other grounds of appeal to itself, it shall dispose of the appeal as if there had been no defect of
jurisdiction in the Court of first instance or Lower Appellate Court.
(3)
If the objection was taken in that manner and the Appellate Court is satisfied as to both those matters and has not those
materials before it, it shall proceed to deal with the appeal under the rules applicable to the Court with respect to the
hearing of appeals; but if it remands the suit or appeal, or frames and refers issues for trial, or requires additional
evidence to be taken, it shall direct its order to a Court competent to entertain the suit or appeal.
(4)
The provisions of this section with respect to an Appellate Court shall, so far as they can he made applicable, apply to a
Court exercising revisional jurisdiction under Section 622 of the [Code of Civil Procedure (14 of 1882)]
[See now the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908).]
or other enactment for the time being in force.
(5)
This section shall come into force on the first day of July, 1887.
12.
Proceedings pending at commencement of Part I or Part II.
-
Nothing in Part I or Part II shall be construed to affect the jurisdiction of any Court-
(a)
with respect to any suit instituted before rules under Part I applicable to the valuation of the suit take effect, or Part II has
come into force, as the case may be, or
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Suits Valuation Act, 1887
(b)
with respect to any appeal arising out of any such suit.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4