
----- PAGE 1 -----
Procedure for The Sale of Immovable Property Attached
Procedure for The Sale of Immovable Property Attached
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/29390972/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Madhya Pradesh - Act
Procedure for The Sale of Immovable Property Attached
MADHYA PRADESH
India
Procedure for The Sale of Immovable Property Attached
Rule PROCEDURE-FOR-THE-SALE-OF-IMMOVABLE-PROPERTY-ATTACHED of 1963
Published on 15 March 1963
Commenced on 15 March 1963
[This is the version of this document from 15 March 1963.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Procedure for The Sale of Immovable Property Attached
Published vide Notification No. M.P. Rajpatra Part 2, dated 15-3-1963
1.
(1)
Where any property is ordered to be sold by public auction under Section 179 of the Madhya Pradesh Municipal
Corporation Act, 1956, the Commissioner shall authorise any of his assistants to conduct the sale.
(2)
The person authorised under sub-rule (1) shall cause a proclamation of the intended sale to be made in Hindi.
(3)
Such proclamation shall be drawn up after notice to the defaulter and shall state the time and place of sale and specify
as fairly and accurately as possible-
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Procedure for The Sale of Immovable Property Attached
(a)
the property to be sold;
(b)
any encumbrance to which the property is liable;
(c)
the amount for the recovery of which the sale is ordered; and
(d)
every other thing which he considers material for a purchaser to know in order to judge the nature and value of the
property.
(4)
The proclamation shall be made at some place on or adjacent to such property by beat of drum or other customary
mode and shall be published in newspapers, and a copy of the proclamation shall be affixed on a conspicuous part of
the property and upon a conspicuous part of the Corporation office.
2.
(1)
Where am order for the sale of immovable property has been made, if the defaulter can satisfy the Commissioner that
there is reason to believe that the amount of the arrears may be raised by the mortgage or lease or private sale of such
property, or some part thereof, or of any other immovable property of the defaulter, the Commissioner may, on his
application, postpone sale of the property comprised in the order for sale on such terms and for such period as he thinks
proper to enable the defaulter to raise the amount.
(2)
In such case the Commissioner shall grant a certificate to the defaulter authorising him within a period to be mentioned
therein to make the proposed mortgage, lease or sale :
Provided that no mortgage, lease or sale under this rule shall become absolute until it has been confirmed by the
Commissioner.
3.
If the sale is not postponed under sub-rule (1) of Rule 2 the sale shall be conducted at the lime and place specified in
the proclamation.
4.
On every sale of immovable property the person declared to be the purchaser shall pay immediately after such
declaration a deposit of twenty-five percent of the amount of purchase-money to the officer or person conducting the
sale, and in default of such deposit, the property shall forthwith be resold.
5.
The full amount of purchase money payable shall be paid by the purchaser into the Corporation office on any day not
later than the fifteenth day from the day of the sale of the property.
6.
In default of payment within the period mentioned in the last preceding rule, the deposit may, if the Commissioner thinks
fit, after defraying the expenses of the sale, be forfeited to the Corporation and the property shall be resold, and the
defaulting purchaser shall forfeit all claims to the properly or to any part of the sum for which it may subsequently be
sold.
7.
Every re-sale of immovable property, in default of payment of the purchase-money within the period allowed for such
payment, shall be made after the issue of a fresh proclamation in the manner and for the period prescribed for sale in
Rule 1.
8.
Where the property sold is a share of undivided immovable property and two or more persons, of whom one is a
co-shared, respectively bid the same sum for such property or for any lot, the bid shall be deemed to be the bid of the
co-sharer.
9.
(1)
After the full amount has been paid as required by Rule 5 and if no objection is preferred under Rule 10, 11 or 12 within
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Procedure for The Sale of Immovable Property Attached
21 days from the date of sale, the Commissioner shall make an order confirming the sale, and shall grant a certificate
specifying the property sold and the amount of purchase money and the name of person who at the time of sale is
declared to be the purchaser. Such certificate shall bear the date on which the sale is confirmed.
(2)
No sale shall be deemed to be complete until the sale is confirmed under this rule.
10.
(1)
Where immovable property has been sold under these rules, any person either owning such property or holding an
interest therein by virtue of a title acquired before such sale, may apply to the Commissioner within 21 days from the
date of such sale to have the sale set aside on his depositing in the Corporation office-
(a)
for payment to the purchaser a sum equal to five per cent of the purchase-money; and
(b)
for payment towards arrears to the Corporation the amount specified in the proclamation of sale as that for the recovery
of which the sale was ordered, less any amount which may, since the date of such proclamation of sale, have been
received by the Corporation.
(2)
Where a person applies under Rule 11 to set aside the sale of his immovable property, he shall not, unless he withdraws
his application, be entitled to make or prosecute an application under this rule.
(3)
Nothing in this rule shall relieve the defaulter from any liability he may be under in respect of costs and interest not
covered by the proclamation of sale.
11.
Where any immovable property has been sold in execution of the order, the defaulter or any person whose interests are
affected by the sale, may apply to the Commissioner within 21 days from the date of such sale to set aside the sale on
the ground of a material irregularity or fraud in publishing or conducting it :
Provided that no sale shall be set aside on the ground of irregularity or fraud unless upon the facts proved, the
Commissioner is satisfied that the applicant has sustained substantial injury by reason of such irregularity or fraud :
Provided further that no such application for setting aside the sale shall be entertained upon any ground which could
have been, but was not put forward by the applicant before the commencement of the sale.
12.
The purchaser at any such sale in execution of an order may apply to the Commissioner within 21 days from the date of
the said sale to set aside the sale, on the ground that the defaulter had no saleable interest in the property sold.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3