
----- PAGE 1 -----
The M.P. Municipalities (Composition of Offences) Rules, 1963
The M.P. Municipalities (Composition of Offences) Rules, 1963
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/29977455/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Madhya Pradesh - Act
The M.P. Municipalities (Composition of Offences) Rules, 1963
MADHYA PRADESH
India
The M.P. Municipalities (Composition of Offences) Rules, 1963
Rule THE-M-P-MUNICIPALITIES-COMPOSITION-OF-OFFENCES-RULES-1963 of 1963
Published on 25 April 1963
Commenced on 25 April 1963
[This is the version of this document from 25 April 1963.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The M.P. Municipalities (Composition of Offences) Rules, 1963
Published vide Notification No. 62-U-18, dated 25-4-1963
1.
Short title.
- These rules may be called the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities (Composition of Offences) Rules, 1963.
2.
Definition.
- In these rules "Act" means the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1961 (
No. 37 of 1961
).
3.
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The M.P. Municipalities (Composition of Offences) Rules, 1963
A person empowered to accept composition, tor alleged offences shall, in regard to such composition, observe the
following procedure :-
(i)
Before starling composition proceedings he shall carefully explain to the accused the offence with which he is charged
and that he is at liberty, if so wishes, to be tried for it.
(ii)
He shall satisfy himself by personal enquiry that there is reason to believe that the alleged offence has been committed.
In this enquiry he shall always hear the statement of the accused person.
(iii)
The sum to be accepted in composition for any alleged offence may be any amount up to the maximum fine imposable
for such offence by or under the Act.
(iv)
He shall immediately enter under his signatures, particulars of every case in which he takes action in a register in the
form appended to these rules and if the composition is accepted forward it to the Chief Municipal Officer who shall
receive the amount and credit to the Municipal Fund and make the necessary entries in column (6) of the register. The
receipt for ever such recovery shall be signed by the Chief Municipal Officer.
(v)
No composition shall be effected to an offence arising from non-compliance of any written notice issued by or on behalf
of the Council unless and until such notice has been complied with so far as the compliance is possible.
4.
The register prescribed by clause (iv) of Rule 3 shall be placed before the Council at its next meeting.
Form of Register
[See clause (iv) of Rule 3]
Serial No.
Name and address of accused
Offence charged with details of allegations
Summary of accused's statement
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
Order passed
If compounded, sum paid and date credited
If not compounded, action taken
Remarks
Signature of pension holding proceeds.
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2