
----- PAGE 1 -----
The M.P. Municipal Corporation (Election Petition) Rules, 1963
The M.P. Municipal Corporation (Election Petition) Rules, 1963
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/159833443/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Madhya Pradesh - Act
The M.P. Municipal Corporation (Election Petition) Rules, 1963
MADHYA PRADESH
India
The M.P. Municipal Corporation (Election Petition) Rules, 1963
Rule THE-M-P-MUNICIPAL-CORPORATION-ELECTION-PETITION-RULES-1963 of 1963
Published on 7 May 1963
Commenced on 7 May 1963
[This is the version of this document from 7 May 1963.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The M.P. Municipal Corporation (Election Petition) Rules, 1963
Published vide Notification No. 76-U-18, dated 7-5-1963, M.P. Rajpatra, Part 2, dated 24-5-1963
In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 433, read with Section 441-C of the Madhya Pradesh
Municipal Corporation Act, 1956 (
No. 23 of 1956
) and in supersession of all rules previously made on the subject, the State Government hereby makes the following
rules the same having been previously published as required by sub-section (1) of Section 433 of the said Act, namely :-
1.
Short title.
- These rules may be called the Madhya Pradesh Municipal Corporation (Election Petition) Rules, 1963.
2.
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
The M.P. Municipal Corporation (Election Petition) Rules, 1963
Definitions.
- In these rules, unless the contest otherwise requires :-
(a)
"Act" means the Madhya Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act, 1956 (
No. 23 of 1956
);
(b)
"Court" means the principal Civil Court of original jurisdiction within the local limits of whose jurisdiction the election or
selection was held;
(c)
"Section" means a section of the Act.
3.
Copy of the election petition to be served on each respondent.
- When an election petition presented under sub-section (2) of Section 441 has been admitted, the Court shall as soon
as may be cause a copy thereof to be served on each respondent.
4.
Election petition to be enquired into in one or more proceedings.
- When in respect of any election or selection of a candidate, more election petitions than one are presented, the Court
may, at its discretion, enquire into the petitions either in one or more proceedings as it shall think it.
5.
Procedure.
- Subject to the provisions of the Act or of these rules, every election petition shall be enquired into by the Court, as
nearly as may be, in accordance with the procedure applicable under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, for the trial of
suits :
Provided that it shall only be necessary for the Court to make a memorandum of the substance of the evidence of any
witness examined by it.
6.
Parties to produce their witnesses.
- If shall be the duty of the parties to produce their witnesses on the date fixed for evidence and they shall not be entitled
to an adjournment for non-attenance of witnesses :
Provided that Court may at its discretion order the issue of Summons to any witness on the necessary process fee and
costs being deposited by the party concerned.
7.
Withdrawal of election petition.
(1)
No election petition shall be withdrawn without the leave of the Court.
(2)
If there are more petitioners than one, no application to withdraw a petition shall be made except with the consent of all
the petitioners.
(3)
When an application for withdrawal is made, notice thereof fixing a date for the hearing of the application shall be given
to all other parties to the petition.
(4)
No application for withdrawal shall be granted if in the opinion of the Court such application has been induced by any
bargain or consideration which ought not to be allowed.
(5)
II the application is granted, the petitioner shall be ordered to pay the cost of the respondents theretofore incurred or
such portion thereof as the Court may think lit.
8.
Abatement of election petition.
- An election petition shall abate only on the death of sole petitioner or of the survivor of several petitioners.
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
The M.P. Municipal Corporation (Election Petition) Rules, 1963
9.
Substitution on death of respondent.
- If before the conclusion of the trial of an election petition the respondent dies, the Court shall cause notice of such
event to be published by affixing a copy on the notice board of the Court and the Corporation office, and thereupon any
person who might have been a petitioner may, within fourteen days of such publication, apply to be substituted for such
respondent to oppose the petition, and shall be entitled to continue the proceedings upon such terms as the Court may
think fit.
10.
Recrimination when seat claimed.
- Where at an enquiry into an election petition, any candidate other than the elected or selected candidate claims the
seat for himself, the elected or selected candidate or any other party may give evidence to prove that the election or
selection of such candidate would have been void if he had been the elected or selected candidate and a petition had
been presented complaining of his election or selection.
11.
Powers of the Court.
- For purposes of enquiring into such petitions, the Court shall have the powers which are vested in a Court under the
Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, when trying a suit in respect of the following matters :-
(a)
discovery and inspection;
(b)
enforcing the attendance of witnesses and requiring the deposit of their expenses;
(c)
compelling the production of documents;
(d)
examining witnesses on oath;
(e)
granting adjournments;
(f)
reception of evidence taken on affidavit; and
(g)
issuing commissions for the examination of witnesses,
and may summon and examine suo motu any person whose evidence appears to him to be material, and shall be
deemed to be a Civil Court within the meaning of Sections 480 and 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898.
12.
Application of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872.
- Subject to the provisions of these rules, the provisions of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, shall be deemed to apply all in
respects to an enquiry into an election petition.
13.
Documentary evidence.
- Notwithstanding anything in any law or rules having the force of law to the contrary no document shall be inadmissible
in evidence on the ground that it is not duly stamped or registered.
14.
Answering of crimination question and certificate of indemnity.
(1)
No witness shall he excused from answering any question as to any matter relevant to a matter in issue in an enquiry
upon the ground that the answer to such question will criminate or may tend, directly or indirectly, to criminate him or
that it may expose or tend, directly or indirectly to expose him to any penalty or forfeiture of any kind :
Provided that-
(i)
no witness who has recorded any vote by ballot shall be required to state for whom he has voted; and
(ii)
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
The M.P. Municipal Corporation (Election Petition) Rules, 1963
a witness, who in the opinion of the Court has answered truly all questions which he has been required by the Court to
answer, shall be entitled to receive a certificate of indemnity, and such certificate may be pleaded by such witness in any
Court and shall be deemed to be a full and complete defence to or upon any criminal charge arising out of the matter to
which such certificate relates nor shall any such answer be admissible in evidence against him in any suit or other
proceedings.
(2)
Nothing in sub-rule (1) shall be deemed to relieve a person receiving a certificate of indemnity from any disqualification
in connection with an election imposed by the Act or any other law.
15.
Appearance before the Court.
- Any appearance, application or before the Court may be made or done by the party in person or by a pleader or a
recognised agent duly appointed to act on his behalf:
Provided that if the Court so directs, any such appearance shall be made by the party in person.
16.
Decision.
- If an election or selection is declared void, the Court may either declare that a casual vacancy has been created, or
that the petitioner or any other candidate has been duly elected or selected.
17.
Expenses of witnesses.
(1)
The reasonable expenses incurred by any person in attending to give evidence shall, unless the Court otherwise directs,
be deemed to be part of the costs.
(2)
Costs shall be in the discretion of the Court which shall have full power to determine by and to whom and to what extent
such costs are to be paid.
(3)
The fees payable by a party in respect of fees of his adversary's pleader shall be such fees not exceeding Rs. 100 as
the Court may allow.
18.
Execution of orders as to costs.
- An application for the execution of an order relating to cost shall be presented to the Court which shall execute it in the
same manner and by the same procedure as if the order were a decree of the Court.
19.
Revision.
(1)
No petition by way of revision shall lie against any interlocutory order passed by the Court.
(2)
At the time of presentation of the petition for revision under sub-section (2) of Section 44)-F against the decision of the
Court the petitioner shall deposit with the High Court a sum of Rs. 250 as security for the costs of the revision. If the
provisions of the rule are not complied with the High Court shall dismiss the petition.
20.
Rules shall be general.
- These rules shall be general for all Municipal Corporations.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4