
----- PAGE 1 -----
The M.P. Local Authorities School Teachers (Absorption in Government Service) Rules, 1964
The M.P. Local Authorities School Teachers (Absorption in
Government Service) Rules, 1964
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/12016999/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Madhya Pradesh - Act
The M.P. Local Authorities School Teachers (Absorption in Government Service) Rules, 1964
MADHYA PRADESH
India
The M.P. Local Authorities School Teachers (Absorption in Government Service) Rules, 1964
Rule
THE-M-P-LOCAL-AUTHORITIES-SCHOOL-TEACHERS-ABSORPTION-IN-GOVERNMENT-SERVICE-RULES-1964 of
1964
Published on 19 August 1963
Commenced on 19 August 1963
[This is the version of this document from 19 August 1963.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The M.P. Local Authorities School Teachers (Absorption in Government Service) Rules, 1964
1.
Short title.
- These rules may be called the Madhya Pradesh Local Authorities School Teachers (Absorption in Government
Service) Rules, 1964.
2.
Definitions.
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
The M.P. Local Authorities School Teachers (Absorption in Government Service) Rules, 1964
- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires-
(a)
"Chairman" means the Chairman of the Committee;
(b)
"Committee" means the Screening Committee of the district constituted under Section 5;
(c)
"Form" means a Form appended to these rules;
(d)
"Act" means the Madhya Pradesh Local Authorities School Teachers (Absorption in Government Service) Act, 1963;
(e)
"Section" means a section of the Act.
3.
Meeting of the Committee.
- The Committee shall meet from time to time on such date and at such time and place as may be fixed by the
Chairman.
4.
Notice.
- The notice of the meeting specifying the date, time and place shall be sent to all members of the Committee.
5.
Quorum.
(1)
Three members including the Chairman shall form a quorum.
(2)
If there be no quorum present at a meeting at any time from the beginning to the end thereof, the Chairman shall, after
waiting for not less than fifteen and not more than thirty minutes, adjourn the meeting to such hour on the same day or
some other further day as he may reasonably fix. A notice of the such adjournment shall be fixed up in the office of the
District Educational Officer of the district, and the business which would have been brought before the original meeting
had there been a quorum thereat shall be brought before the adjourned meeting and may be disposed of at such a
meeting whether there be a quorum present or not.
(3)
A notice of adjournment exhibited in the office of the District Educational Officer of the district on the day on which the
meeting is adjourned shall be sufficient notice of the subsequent meeting.
6.
Minutes.
(1)
The names of the members of the Committee present and minutes of the proceedings at such meeting shall be recorded
in a book to be kept for the purpose. Such minutes shall be read at the meeting and shall, after confirmation of the
meeting, be signed by the Chairman.
(2)
No member of the Committee shall be entitled to object to the minutes of any meeting unless he was present at the
meeting to which they relate.
7.
Question to be decided by majority.
- All questions brought before any meeting of the Committee shall be decided by a majority of the members of the
Committee present and in the case of an equality of votes the Chairman shall have a second or casting vote.
8.
Principles of absorption.
- In drawing up a list of existing teachers suitable for absorption in Government service the Committee shall subject to
the provisions of sub-section (1) of Section 6, have regard to the following, namely :-
(a)
In considering the suitability for absorption in Government service the Committee shall have regard to the status and the
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
The M.P. Local Authorities School Teachers (Absorption in Government Service) Rules, 1964
conditions of service of the teachers as existing immediately before the 19th August, 1963.
(b)
A teacher who has been deputed by a local authority for training in any Teacher's Gaining Institution of the State and to
whom full salary is being paid by the said authority shall also be considered for absorption in Government service.
(c)
A teacher who is under suspension or against whom an enquiry is in progress shall not be considered by the Committee
until his case is finally settled by the local authority and findings are communicated to the District Educational Officers of
the district concerned.
(d)
A teacher who has been on deputation or on leave, having lien on the post of a teacher of primary and/or middle classes
in a school run by a local authority shall also be considered for absorption in Government service.
9.
Form of the list.
- The list to be drawn up under sub-section (1) of Section 6 shall be in Form I.
10.
Manner of publication of the list under sub-section (2) of Section 6.
- The list prepared under sub-section (1) of Section 6 shall be published by affixing a copy thereof at the office of the
District Educational Officer of the district and on the notice board of the local authorities.
11.
Copies of the list to be forwarded by the Secretary.
- Copies of the list published under sub-section (2) of Section 6 shall be forwarded to the local authorities, the Divisional
Superintendent of Education, and the Director of Public Instructions, Madhya Pradesh by the Secretary of the
Committee.
12.
Determination of seniority.
(1)
The seniority of an absorbed employee in the post or cadre of absorption shall as on 1st October, 1963, be determined
by the length of continuous service, whether officiating or permanent rendered by him immediately before that date in
the corresponding post or in the local authority excluding periods of fortuitous appointments which are in the nature of
stop-gap arrangements.
(2)
Where the length of service in the corresponding post in the local authorities is equal, the employee senior in age shall
be deemed to be senior.
(3)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this rule seniority inter se of employees who before the 1st October, 1963
belonged to the same local authority as it existed before that date shall not be disturbed.
13.
Option.
- An option under the proviso to sub-section (1) of Section 10 shall be given in writing to the District Educational Officer
of the district in Form II within a period of three months from the date of publication of the list under sub-section (2) of
Section 6 of the Act.
14.
Pay.
- The pay of an absorbed employee shall, except where the State Government otherwise directs, be fixed according to
the rules made by the State Government from time to time in respect of the Government servants of the corresponding
grades in the service of the State.
15.
Regulation of pay, leave and allowance etc.
- Except as provided by the Act or these rules, the pay, allowance, pension, gratuity, leave, retirement, discipline,
control, punishment and other conditions of service of the absorbed employees shall, unless, otherwise directed by the
State Government in respect of any of the said matters, be regulated by the rules made by the Government in this
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
The M.P. Local Authorities School Teachers (Absorption in Government Service) Rules, 1964
behalf, from time to time, relating to the personnel of the corresponding grades in the Education Department of the
State.
16.
Repeal.
- Madhya Pradesh Local Authorities School Teachers (Absorption in Government Service) Rules, 1963 are hereby
repealed.
Form I
(See Rule 9)
List of existing teachers considered suitable for absorption in Government service
S.No.
Name
Father's name
Academic qualifications
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
Other qualifications, if any
Date of birth
Name of the local authorities running the school
in which the teacher imparts instructions
Remarks
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
Secretary
Screening Committee
District........
Form II
Under Rule 13 of the Madhya Pradesh Local Authorities' School Teachers (Absorption in Government Service) Rules,
1964 ......... Name..... Designation....... hereby opt for the provident fund/pension scheme applicable to me immediately
before the first day of October, 1963.
Dated..........
Signature
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4