
----- PAGE 1 -----
The M.P. Water Supply Rules
The M.P. Water Supply Rules
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/27623055/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Madhya Pradesh - Act
The M.P. Water Supply Rules
MADHYA PRADESH
India
The M.P. Water Supply Rules
Rule THE-M-P-WATER-SUPPLY-RULES of 1968
Published on 30 October 1968
Commenced on 30 October 1968
[This is the version of this document from 30 October 1968.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The M.P. Water Supply Rules
Published vide Notification No. 3190-1520-17-Med.-2, dated 30-10-1968, M.P Rajpatra. Part 4 (Ga), dated 29-11-1968
at pp. 1032-1046
The State Government hereby makes the following rules for supply of water from Government Owned Water Works the
same having been previously published in the "Madhya Pradesh Rajpatra" :-
1.
Short title and commencement.
- (i) These rules shall be called the Madhya Pradesh Water Supply Rules.
(ii)
These rules shall come into force from the date of publication in the "Madhya Pradesh Gazette".
2.
Page 1/13
----- PAGE 2 -----
The M.P. Water Supply Rules
Definitions.
- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires :-
(a)
"Water Works" means the machinery and equipment owned by State Government for the supply of water under these
rules;
(b)
[ "Officer-in-charge" means the Executive Engineer, of the Division under which the water works exist, but if that water
works is at a place other than the district head quarter then, the Assistant Engineer concerned]
[Substituted Notification No. F-1753-464-35-1-79, dated 27-5-1979.]
;
(c)
"Authorised Officer" means the Officer-in-charge or the Water Works and works connected therewith and includes any
other officer authorised by the Officer-in-charge in this behalf;
(d)
"Consumer" means any body corporate, person or persons supplied or applying to be supplied with, or using the water
from the water works, or any person or persons otherwise liable for payment of water tax or water charges;
(e)
"Water Works Main" means the distributing pipe line carrying water from the water works;
(f)
"Communication Pipe" means the portion of the pipe line between the main and the meter stopcock valve;
(g)
"Departmental stopcock or valve" means Gland-cock or valve fixed on the ferrule or the communication pipe lo control
flow of water, through the meter;
(h)
"Ferrule" means a ferrule connecting a communication pipe with water works main;
(i)
"Meters" means the apparatus fixed for measuring the quantity of water supplied;
(j)
"Premises" means any house or building (inclusive of the grounds attached thereto) or its parts or any tenements
thereof, or any other land in respect of which water is supplied or
(k)
"Storage Cistern" means any cistern for storing the water supplied by water works but shall not include a cistern for
storing rain water or hot water or water for flushing or other sanitary needs;
(l)
"Plumber" means any person engaged in pipe laying and fitting and licensed by the Officer-in-charge or the Authorised
Officer;
(m)
"Agreement" means the agreement in the prescribed form executed by the person or persons desiring water supply from
the water works;
(n)
"Domestic Supply" means water supply for bona fide domestic use of drinking, bathing, kitchen, gardening and for house
hold sanitary fittings;
(o)
"Non-domestic supply" means supply of water for purposes other than those covered under domestic supply;
(p)
"Industrial Supply" means supply of water for industrial purposes;
(q)
"Water tax or water charges" water tax or water charges shall mean the rates of water supply as fixed from time to time
for domestic or non-domestic or industrial supply. Rates shall be filed by the State Government for State owned water
works;
(r)
Page 2/13
----- PAGE 3 -----
The M.P. Water Supply Rules
"Minimum charge" Minimum charge shall mean the minimum water tax leviable for metered connection irrespective of
the meter reading which shall be fixed by the State Government for all sizes of connections;
(s)
"Flat Rate" the flat rate shall mean the Water tax leviable on the supply where meters are not fixed and shall be fixed by
the State Government from time to time.
3.
Purposes for which water can be supplied.
- The supply of water under these rules is intended ordinarily for bona fide domestic purposes and the water so supplied
shall not be used for any other purposes without the previous permission in writing from the Officer-in-charge of the
water works.
4.
Restrictions on taking water from public fountains.
- No water cart or lorry shall take water from public fountains installed for bona fide domestic purposes. Water may be
drawn for shrinking water on public roads, for flushing drains and other Municipal Services from duly metered apparatus
provided for such purposes at the cost of the local body.
5.
Public Fountains and Cattle Troughs.
- (i) Public fountains may be established by the local body with prior permission of Officer-in-charge of the water works
at suitable place not hindering the public traffic preferably in poor localities. These fountains will be duly metered and
fitted with waste not taps.
(ii)
It shall be the responsibility of the local body to pay all the water charges of the water consumed at the Public fountains.
(iii)
The Officer-in-charge of the water works or the authorised officer may close temporarily or permanently any public
fountain if it is misused or its water contaminated or if water charges have not been paid.
6.
Application for Water Supply or Alteration.
- (i) Person or persons desiring to have a private supply or addition to or alteration in the existing pipes and fittings shall
apply to the authorised officer in this behalf through a licensed plumber in such form and in such manner as may be
prescribed by the officer-in-charge of the water works from time to time, specifying therein the purpose for which supply
is required and the quantity likely to be consumed together with the plan showing the location of the premises and the
proposed connection.
(ii)
The application shall be signed by the owner or his lawful agent and shall be accompanied with the current house tax
receipt, it no house tax is being paid by him an attested copy of the sale-deed or other documents shall be produced as
proof of his ownership.
(iii)
If the premises arc Government property or belong to any society or public body the application shall be signed by the
person authorised for making payments of taxes.
7.
Connection to Mains.
- After a connection is sanctioned the consumer shall deposit with the officer-in-charge of the water works or authorised
officer security deposit of rupees 15 for single tap and Rs. 25 for more than one tap and Rs. 50 for temporary
connection.
Further he shall pay the following charges :-
(i)
Application fee of Re. 1.
(ii)
boring lee at Rs. 2 for each bore.
(iii)
The connection fee at Rs. 3.
Page 3/13
----- PAGE 4 -----
The M.P. Water Supply Rules
(iv)
In case of Asbestos pipes, Human pipes or other water mains requiring saddle pieces, the cost of such saddle piece, as
decided from time to time by the Officer-in-charge of the water works shall be borne by the consumer.
(v)
The charges for digging and cutting the roads shall also be borne by the consumer. Further the charge for restoration of
the road, which is required to be cut shall be paid lo the local body or to the Public Works Department, as the case may
be, by the consumer directly and a receipt therefor shall be produced by him to enable the authorised officer to release
the connection.
(vi)
In case of connection in Government premises charges under (i) to (iv) above shall be payable by the Public Works
Department or the institution concerned. However, in respect of these buildings no security deposit by consumers will be
necessary.
(vii)
In case of reconnection a fee of Rs. 7 (Rupees seven) and actual cost of digging and cutting the road, shall be charged
from the consumer. Restoration charges shall be paid by the consumer direct to the authorities mentioned in sub-rule
(iv) above.
(viii)
Every water connection shall be a metered connection.
(ix)
In exceptional cases unmetered connection with ¼" ferrule may be allowed for domestic purposes only, but if the
consumer is found making misuse or let his tap open so as to run the water waste, he shall be liable to be punished
under Rule 11.
(x)
No premises shall be connected with more than one communication pipe, except in special cases to be decided by the
officer-in-charge.
(xi)
Size of ferrule shall be decided by the officer-in-charge or authorised officer according to the size of communication pipe
and number of taps, etc. This size shall be intimated to the consumer on his application itself and no change in the size
will thereafter be permitted.
(xii)
Connection shall be given only after the consumer has signed the agreement.
8.
Separate Communication Pipe to every Premises.
- Every premises supplied with water by the water works shall be its own separate communication pipe and no
communication pipe shall be used to supply water to more than one premises; provided that in case of a group or block
of premises the water tax of which is paid by one owner, the said owner can be given one communication pipe sufficient
for such group or block if considered adequate by the officer-in-charge of the water works.
9.
Water charges.
- The water supplied shall be charged at such rates as are fixed for the water works from time to time.
10.
Payment of Water Charges.
- (i) Monthly bills tor the water consumed shall be prepared with due date for payment indicated therein and sent to the
consumers for payment. If the consumer fails to pay the bill within the due dale a surcharge at such rates as may be
current at the time the bill was due for payment will have to be paid in addition to the water charges. Supply shall be
liable to be disconnected without notice in case any arrears remain outstanding for 3 months. The consumer will also be
liable to pay the outstanding bills despite disconnection of supply.
(ii)
Bills shall be sent by post or through messenger. Non-receipt of the bill, however, shall not exonerate the consumer from
making payment of the bill along with due surcharge.
(iii)
Page 4/13
----- PAGE 5 -----
The M.P. Water Supply Rules
Non-acceptance of the bill by the consumer or his agent does not exonerate the consumer from making payment within
the due dale. As soon as non-acceptance of the bill is reported a notice by post will sent to the consumer asking him to
pay within 10 days of the date of the notice else supply will be disconnected. On expiry of 10 days, the supply will be
disconnected if the bill remains unpaid and such a consumer will not be granted new connection/reconnection on the
same or any other premises.
(iv)
Any complaint in regard to the bill should be made to authorised officer in writing within 15 days of the receipt of the bill.
Even if there be any discrepancy in the bill or clarification called for, consumers shall be required to pay the bill amount
in full provisionally or under protest subject to subsequent adjustment.
(v)
If the name of the consumer is changed by way of succession or by transfer of property, successor or transferer,
transferee, as the case may be, shall apply for the change of name within a period of one month, of such a change.
(vi)
Payment of water charges by Government employees. In case of Non-gazetted Government servants occupying
Government premises, bills shall be sent to the concerning head of office by the 20th of the month or any convenient
date fixed for the same, for recovery of the water charges from the salary bills. In case of non-receipt of the bills by the
head of offices before preparation of salary bills, the minimum change as fixed from time to time will be deducted from
the salary bills of the consumer, adjustable in the subsequent salary bills. The schedule of recoveries shall be prepared
by the Head of Office for the recoveries made and forwarded to the authorised officer.
(vii)
In the premises where water meters are not fixed and water charges are levied at flat rate, no bills shall be sent to the
consumer or the concerning Head of Office but the Head of Office shall recover the water charges at the flat rate as
fixed from time to time and the schedule of recoveries thus made shall be sent lo Authorised Officer.
(viii)
In case of Gazetted Government servants occupying Government premises bills shall be sent to them with a copy to the
Treasury Officer concerned by 25th of the month for necessary adjustment.
11.
Provision Relating to the Prevention of Misuse of Water.
- No consumer shall use the water for any purpose other than that for which the connection has been allowed nor shall
the water be wasted or permitted to be tapped by occupiers of other premises. On infringement of this rule, the
authorised officer shall recover the water charges fixed for the purpose. In addition, the house connection shall be
disconnected for the reasons lo be recorded in writing.
12.
Right to Access and to Inspect Fittings.
- (i) The authorised officer shall have the right to enter the premises and inspect all or any fittings and pipes and to check
that no misuse of water is being made.
(ii)
If the consumer or his representative obstructs the authorised officer in performing his duties, supply is liable to be
disconnected after giving him a show-cause notice.
13.
Pipes and pipe fittings.
- (i) All pipes, special, fittings of whatever kind shall conform to the particulars prescribed and specification in
accordance with Indian Standard Specification or British Standard Specification. As a general rule, all the fittings shall be
capable of withstanding a pressure of 100 lbs. per sq. inch. Brass screw down Bid-Taps and stop-cocks preferably be
used at fittings to avoid unnecessary leakings and water wastage.
(ii)
No materials which is not in accordance with the specification and descriptions mentioned in sub-rule (i) above shall be
allowed to be used in the fittings. All such materials which is to be used as fittings shall have to be get approved by the
authorised officer.
(iii)
All consumers pipes shall be laid in ground not less than 1'6" below the surface unless laid inside a building and they
Page 5/13
----- PAGE 6 -----
The M.P. Water Supply Rules
shall be laid or fixed as not to be exposed to the heat of Sun nor shall any consumer's pipe and fittings be laid in any
position or manner which would involve risk or injury to the pipe or fitting or waste or contamination of water.
(iv)
No consumer's tap shall be fixed in an open yard, passage or outside any premises so as to be available for use by the
public without special permission in writing from the officer-in-charge of the Water Works.
(v)
Every arrangement shall be made by the consumer to drain off the waste water, and the taps shall be fixed at such a
level that the water may drain off easily.
14.
Plumber to obtain licence.
- No person shall execute or permit to execute any alteration or repairs or fitting lo water pipes or house connections
unless he has obtained a licence from officer-in-charge of the water works.
15.
Period for which licence shall be valid.
- Every such licence shall remain in force from the date of its grant to the 31st day of March next following and may be
renewed from year to year.
16.
Fee for licence and security deposit.
- (i) An initial amount of Rs. 25 (non-refundable) and sum of Rs. 250 (refundable) as security deposit shall be charged
for such licence.
(ii)
The amount of security deposit shall be refunded as soon as a plumber ceases to be a licensee.
(iii)
Every licence, not suspended or cancelled, may be renewed on payment of Rs. 10.
(iv)
Every application for licence shall be made in writing to the officer-in-charge of water works.
17.
Test for Granting Licence.
- (i) No person shall be granted a licence under these rules unless he has passed the plumber's test taken by the
Officer-in-charge or authorised officer of the water works.
(ii)
Every person appearing for such test shall have to pay Rs. 10 (non-refundable) for which a receipt shall be granted.
18.
Licence to comply with Rules.
- Every plumber shall be subject to and comply with the provisions of these rules.
19.
Cancellation of Licence.
- The licence of a plumber can be revoked or cancelled on the following grounds :-
(i)
That the licence has been obtained by fraud, or
(ii)
That he has failed to comply with or contravened any of the provisions of these rules or infringed any of the conditions of
the licence; or
(iii)
That he is found to be unsuitable to work as a plumber on a complaint received from Public and confirmed by the
Officer-in-charge of the water works.
(iv)
That he has failed to attend to the work of consumers in the area he has been authorised to operate.
20.
Line for Breach of Rule.
- (i) A breach of any of these rules by the licensee shall in addition lo cancellation of licence be punishable with fine
Page 6/13
----- PAGE 7 -----
The M.P. Water Supply Rules
which may extend to Rs. 100.
(ii)
In the event of any damage caused due to negligence on the part of the plumber or a person working in his behalf the
amount of damage shall be recovered from his security deposit and he shall make good the security deposit within a
period of 30 days failing which the licence shall be liable for cancellation.
21.
Meters.
(1)
Meters and meter readings-All meters, indicators and special apparatus required for metering the supply of water shall
be installed, sealed and maintained by the water works on the premises of the consumer and shall be charged in
accordance with Rule 21 (3) (c) of these rules.
(2)
(a)
The consumer, if he so desires, may install his own meter on getting his meter tested as per rules (for which testing
charges shall not be refunded).
The authorised officer may at his discretion test meters owned by consumers any time during their service. If the meter
goes out of order or is found to register incorrectly, the owner shall have to replace or get the meter repaired at his cost
within such period as may be specified in this regard during which period the Authorised Officer may fix a substitute
meter. The cost of installation of substitute meter and its rent is recoverable from the consumer.
(b)
In any case no meter shall be fixed or connected to the system except by the authorised officer of the water works and
such meters sealed by the authorised officer. When any meter is provided by the consumer or purchased by the
consumer from the water works, the consumer shall be responsible for maintaining his meter and metering equipment in
good order within the meaning of the rules.
(c)
The water works shall, as far as possible, have its meters tested and calibrated once a year.
(d)
The readings of meters shall be taken once in each month or at such intervals or limes as the officer-in-charge or
authorised officer may think expedient. Every reading of each meter so taken shall be entered immediately after being
taken on a chart to be attached on or near such meter so as to be available at all times for the inspection of the
consumer.
(e)
If the officer-in-charge of the water works or his representative have reasons lo believe that a meter or meters on the
premises of a consumer is arc incorrect (which includes stoppage, slow or fast meters) and in the absence of a check
meter, the correct quantity shall be determined from the average of the readings of the last three months.
(3)
(a)
On every connection meter shall be fixed. Meter from ½" to 1-½" if available shall be supplied by the water works. For
meters above 1-½" size the consumer shall have to make his own arrangements.
(b)
For all such meters as supplied by the water works from ½" to 1½" size a security deposit of Rs. 25 (refundable) shall be
deposited by the consumer along with the application for connection.
(c)
Any person on whose premises meter is installed by the water works on hire shall, in addition to the charges otherwise
payable for the use of the water, pay the following rent for providing and maintaining the meter :-
½" meter
Rs. 0.75 paise per month
¾" meter
Rs. 1.00 paise per month
1" meter
Rs. 1.50 paise per month
Page 7/13
----- PAGE 8 -----
The M.P. Water Supply Rules
1-½" meter
Rs. 2.00 paise per month
(d)
Any person on whose premises a meter has been installed may apply to the officer-in-charge or authorised officer, of
water works to test it and thereupon it shall be tested. The testing charges shall be as follows, which shall be payable
along with the application and shall not be refunded on any ground.
½" to 1-½?
Rs.3/-
2" meter
Rs. 5/-
If the meter proves to be registering either more than 5 per cent fast or more than 5 per cent slow, the testing fee so
deposited will be refunded to the consumer and the water charges for last three months will be adjusted accordingly.
(e)
In case where a meter goes out of order or is under repair, the water charges at the discretion of the officer-in-charge of
the water works shall be calculated as follows :-
(i)
On the actual consumption recorded if the meter on test is found to register not more than five per cent show.
(ii)
On the average or the immediately preceding and succeeding reliable readings.
OR
(iii)
On the reading for the corresponding period of the previous year, or on the average of last three months.
(f)
It shall be the duty of the consumer to keep the meter sale from all sorts of damages and if it is damaged the same shall
be got repaired at the cost of the consumer.
(g)
The life of a meter on an average is 10 years. The water works shall maintain and keep the meter given on hire in
running order. The worn out parts shall be replaced at the cost of the water works.
(h)
The meter shall be fixed just after the stop-cock or valve, in a safe position easily accessible to the Meter Reader.
(i)
The cost of the meter chamber and its box shall be borne by the consumer as determined and fixed by the
officer-in-charge of the water works from time to time.
(j)
No consumer shall interfere with the meter nor shall remove or get its position changed without the permission of the
authorised officer. In case of default he shall be liable to a penalty which may extend to Rs. 100.
22.
Breakdown and control over water supply.
(1)
The water works shall not guarantee the supply and shall not be liable for any damage that may result on account of
failure of water supply due to accident to the water mains, or machinery, etc. or any emergency arising, which renders
the stoppage of water supply. The officer-in-charge of the water works shall be the sole Judge of the sufficiency of the
cause of the stoppage of the aforesaid supply.
(2)
The special cases when the supply is to be stopped for more than 12 hours for repairing some breakdown or so the
public shall be informed 2 hours before by public announcement.
(3)
The officer-in-charge of the water works reserves the full right to control the supply or the supply hours as the situation
may be.
(4)
The officer-in-charge of the water works shall not bind himself regarding quality, quantity and pressure of water supply.
Page 8/13
----- PAGE 9 -----
The M.P. Water Supply Rules
23.
Punishment for Infringement of Rules.
- A breach of any of these rules shall be punishable with fine which may extend to Rs. 100, the officer-in-charge of the
water works shall exercise powers under this rule.
24.
Agreement.
- The consumer shall, as soon as the grant of meter connection to him is approved by officer-in-charge of water works or
authorised officer enter into an agreement for the supply of water and payment of water tax or water charge thereof in
the Form appended to these rules.
25.
Dispute and Appeal.
- In all cases in which dispute arises as to the application of the above rules, the matter shall be referred to the
officer-in-charge of the water works within a period of 30 days of the date of orders passed by the authorised officer. An
appeal may be preferred to the Superintending Engineer concerned within a period of thirty days from the dale of orders
passed by the officer-in-charge of the water works and the decision on the appeal by the Superintending Engineer
concerned shall be final.
26.
Mode of recovery.
- Any amount due on account of water charges or otherwise recoverable from the consumer under these rules, if not
paid when they are due may be recovered from the defaulter by the Collector on a requisition, made by the
officer-in-charge of the water works as if they were arrears of land revenue.
27.
Repeal.
- On and from the date on which these rules are brought into force in the State, provisions of all other rules in this
connection in force before the above mentioned date, shall stand repealed.
Form of Agreement
[See Rule 24]
Public Health Engineering Department Water Works at.......
Agreement For Domestic/industrial Water Connection
This Agreement is made this.........day of........between the Governor of Madhya Pradesh acting through........(hereinafter
called the "Supplier" which expression shall, which the context so admits include his successors-in-Office) of the one
part and Shri .........son of..........................resident of...........(hereinafter called the "Consumer" which expression shall
where the context so admits, include his legal heirs, successors, representatives, executors, administrators and assigns)
of the other part. Whereas the consumer has applied in the prescribed form for water connection in his own
house/house engaged or occupied by him/house under his trusteeship, bearing Municipal No..............situated in
.............. (hereinafter referred lo as the said premises);
And whereas the Water Works Department at ................... has granted inch size having ferrule domestic/industrial
metered unmetered water connection in the said premises subject to the terms and conditions hereinafter appearing.
Now, therefore, this agreement witnesses and it is hereby agreed as follows :-
1. This agreement shall be read and construed as subject in all respects to the provisions of the Water Works Rules for
the time being in force.
2. The consumer shall not apply the water to any purpose other than that for which the water connection has been
granted to him nor shall the water be wasted or permitted to be tapped by occupiers of other houses or hands. In case of
infringement of this clause, the consumer shall be liable to pay such amounts as may be charged by the water works
under the rules and the said authorities may also disconnect the connection.
3. Monthly bills for the water consumed shall be prepared and sent to the consumer for payment within- the due date
fixed therein. If the consumer fails to pay the charges including surcharge (the rebate allowed in the Bill) levied due to
delay within the due date of payment the same shall be adjusted from the amount of security deposit held by the
department the consumer shall have to make good the security deposit so adjusted within a further period of 10 days
from the due date failing which supply shall be liable for disconnection without any further intimation.
4. (i) The authorised employees of the Department on giving short notice shall have the right to enter the premises and
Page 9/13
----- PAGE 10 -----
The M.P. Water Supply Rules
inspect all or any fitting and pipes and lo check that no misuse of water is being made.
(ii)
If any obstruction is made by the consumer or his representative in the performing of the duties of a water works
employee, the connection is liable to be disconnected after giving him show-cause notice.
5. (i) Meters and meter readings. - (a) All meters, indicators and special apparatus required for metering the supply of
water shall be installed, sealed and maintained by the water works on the premises of the consumer shall be charged in
accordance with the rules.
(ii)
In any case no meter or cut outs shall be affixed or connected to the system except by the Water Works Authority and
such meters sealed by the Public Health Engineer or his representative. When any meter is provided by the consumer
or purchased by the consumer from water works the consumer shall be responsible for maintaining his meter and
metering equipment in good order within the meaning of the rules.
(iii)
The reading of meters shall be taken once in each month or at such intervals or times as the Public Health Engineer or
his representative may think expedient. Every reading so taken of each meter shall be entered by the Engineer
immediately after being taken on a record to be attached on or near such meter and to be open at all limes to the
inspection of the consumer.
(iv)
If the Public Health Engineer or his representative, has reasons to believe that a meter or meters on the premises of a
consumer is/are incorrect (which includes stopped, slow or fast meters) and in the absence of a check meter, the correct
quantity shall be determined from the average of the readings of the last three months.
(v)
In case when a meter goes out of order or under repair, the water charge at the discretion of the officer shall be
calculated as follows :-
(i)
On the actual consumption recorded if the meter on test is found to register not more than 5 per cent slow.
(ii)
On the average of the immediately preceding and succeeding reliable readings.
(iii)
On the reading for the corresponding period of the previous year, or on the average of last three months.
(iv)
It shall be the duty of the consumer to keep the meter safe from all sorts of damages and if it is damaged the same shall
be got repaired at the cost of the consumer.
(v)
No consumer shall interfere with the meter nor shall he remove or gel its position changed without the permission of the
Department. In case of default, he shall be liable to a penalty, which may extend to Rs. 100.
6. (i) The Department shall not guarantee the supply and shall not be liable for any damage that may result on account
of failure of water supply due to accident to the water mains, or machinery, etc., or any emergency arising which renders
the stoppage of water supply. The Department shall be the sole judge of the sufficiency of the cause of the stoppage of
the aforesaid supply.
(ii)
The Department reserves the lull right to control the supply or the supply hours as the situation may be.
(iii)
The supplier does not bind himself regarding quality, quantity and pressure of water supply.
(iv)
The consumer shall not be entitled for any claim from the supplier in the event of stoppage or restricted supply.
7. If any dispute shall arise between the parties hereto in respect of this agreement or any of the provisions herein
contained, or anything arising hereout, the same shall lie referred to the Executive Engineer, Water Works, whose
decision thereon shall be final, conclusive and binding on both the parties.
8. The Madhya Pradesh Water Supply Rules, 1968, shall form part of this agreement.
9. Any sum due from the consumer under this Agreement may be recovered from him as an arrear of land revenue.
Page 10/13
----- PAGE 11 -----
The M.P. Water Supply Rules
10. The consumer shall at all times abide by and observe all rules, regulations and orders made and issued by the State
Government for the purpose of regulating water supply and also binds himself to perform all acts and duties required to
be done by him and to abstain from doing or performing any act forbidden by or under such rules, regulations or orders.
In witness whereof the parties hereto have signed this agreement on the date and year, respectively, mentioned against
their signature.
Supplier
On behalf of the Governor of Madhya Pradesh
Dated .........
Consumer Dated .........
Witnesses :
1.
..............
2.
..............
1.
.............
2.
..............
Public Health Engineering Department
Water Works....................
Water Bill for the month of  19...
(This Bill Must Be Presented at the time of Payment)
S.C. No.................................
Name...................................
Address ........................
Date of issue of Bill
Due date..............
If the payment of this bill is not made on or before the date as shown above a surcharge of Rs is liable to be paid.
Gallons @  P. Per %() gallons Rs.................... P. ..............................................
or minimum charges ...........................................................................................
Rental of Meter ...................................................................................................
Other charges .....................................................................................................
Surcharge ...........................................................................................................
Total ....................................................................................................................
Arrears or previous Bill .....................................................................................
Less Misc. credit,, if any ...................................................................................
Grand Total.........................................................................................................
E & O.E.
Checked by ..............................................
Station ..............................................
Oeeicer-In-Charge/AE/BA
Water Works.............
For Information of Consumers
(1)
All payment should be tendered at the office of the Water Works the hours notified.
(2)
Am complaint in regard to this bill may be the Water Works Office in writing within fifteen days of the receipt of this bill.
Even if there be any discrepancy in the bill or classifications called for consumers are requested to pay the bill amount in
full provisionally or under protest subject to subsequent adjustment so that the payment of surcharge as mentioned in
para 3 below may be avoided.
(3)
Page 11/13
----- PAGE 12 -----
The M.P. Water Supply Rules
All bills not paid within  days of the issue of the bill will be subject to surcharge of Rs........ If the bill is not paid within due
date as mentioned above, the service connection is liable to be disconnected on the expiry of seven days period from
the date of issue of notice.
(4)
Consumers are requested to obtain receipts for all payments on PIIED receipt Form No. 9. If other forms of receipts are
taken for payments made, the consumers are warned that they do so at their own risk.
(5)
The tender of the bill inclusive of previous bills, if any, shall not exonerate the consumer from the consequences of
non-payment of the said arrears of the disconnection notice has already been issued.
(6)
If the consumer fails to pay the charges including the surcharge (the rebate allowed in the bill levied due to delay within
the due date of payment the same shall be adjusted from the amount of security deposit held by the Department the
consumer shall have to make good the security deposit so adjusted within a further period of 10 days from the due date
failing which supply shall be liable for disconnection without any further intimation.
Note :
(1)
Non-receipt of this bill will not exonerate the consumer from the liability and the consequences mentioned in para 3
above.
(2)
In all communications please refer S.C. No........
Form Sale No..........
XL/PH-2.
Application for Grant for A New Water Connection
To
The..............
Water Works............
I, the applicant (Name) ............ son of ............. Caste.................. Mohalla ..............bearing Municipal House No...............
hereby makes application for the grant of a metered water connection for Domestic/ Non-domestic/Industrial purpose. In
case of any complaint from any body, regarding any kind of loss on account of my above water connection the Water
Works Authorities will be entitled to disconnect or stop my water supply. Necessary verification with regard to the How of
waste water is appended herewith. I will strictly abide by the Water Works Rules, 1968 and will deposit the Water Tax
according to the prescribed rates. My approximate requirement of water will........% liters p.m. It is, therefore, requested
that sanction in the name of Licensed Plumber Shri.............may kindly be issued.
House Tax Receipt No...........dated...........in original/True Copy of the sale-deed is appended herewith for your kind
perusal. For the purpose of this connection, an amount of Rs.......... deposited, vide Municipal/P.W.D. Receipt No............
dated.................. against road repairs is also attached herewith for information.
(Signature of the Applicant)
Water Works Line Dimension
Connection Size Ferrule ............ pipe .............distance ............ from the Sluice Kay ............Meter No
...........Private/Government. I certify that Shri...............who has signed this application is the House Owner.
(Signature of the Plumber)
Proposal
Arrangement for the draining of water have been made. Meter connection..............Ferrule............pipe...........with
taps................can be sanctioned.
(Signature of the Overseer)
Order
Connection size .............is hereby sanctioned. Name be entered in the ledger and connection fee Rs..........may be
deposited. Concerned to note and intimation of the sanction of connection be communicated. Overseer to note.
(Assistant Engineer/B.A.)
In case of Government, an agreement may be executed. Sanction shall be issued subject to the following conditions :-
(1)
Page 12/13
----- PAGE 13 -----
The M.P. Water Supply Rules
In case of any complaint from any body relating to any kind of loss on account of water connection, the Water Works,
Authorities shall disconnect or stop the supply of water.
(2)
A sketch drawing of the site of connection may be produced with the application.
(3)
In the event of submission of incomplete or false information, the application is liable for rejection and the amount of
registration fee will be forfeited.
(4)
Only last or current years' House Tax receipt will be accepted. For houses free from tax, newly purchased or for houses
under construction, the applicant will have to submit such proof of ownership which may satisfy the Water Works
Authorities for granting a water connection.
(5)
No changes to the place of a sanctioned water connection can be affected without the permission of the Water Works
Authorities.
(6)
For obtaining water connection for places like Latrines, Lavatories, Urinals or Drains, etc. separate sanction of the
Department will have to be produced.
(7)
If a water connection is required for a Government/Semi-Government or Society building then this application need only
be signed by the person who is the authorised disbursing authority of that premises.
Verification
Name entered at Consumer No...........Connection No....................
Dated.............
(Connection Clerk)
Fee Rs .................deposited vide Receipt No......................, dated................
(Cashier)
Entered in Tax Register Page No............. and Information Register Page No..........
(Connection Clerk)
Order
Advance amount be deposited. Account section be informed. Order for supply of water be issued. Overseer be
informed.
(Assistant Engineer/B.A.)
Verification
Advance amount of Rs................deposited vide Receipt No........ Book No dated.............
(Cashier)
Water Supply Order No...........dated......issued and the water supply commenced on dated.............and inspection done
on dated..................
(Overseer Water Works)
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 13/13