
----- PAGE 1 -----
The M.P. Ayurvedic Ashaskiya Maha Vidyalayon Ke Chhatron Ke Pariksha Sambandhi Vishesh Upb...
The M.P. Ayurvedic Ashaskiya Maha Vidyalayon Ke Chhatron Ke
Pariksha Sambandhi Vishesh Upbandh Adhiniyam, 1979
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/125936638/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Madhya Pradesh - Act
The M.P. Ayurvedic Ashaskiya Maha Vidyalayon Ke Chhatron Ke Pariksha Sambandhi Vishesh Upbandh Adhiniyam,
1979
MADHYA PRADESH
India
The M.P. Ayurvedic Ashaskiya Maha Vidyalayon Ke Chhatron Ke Pariksha Sambandhi Vishesh Upbandh Adhiniyam,
1979
Act 9 of 1979
Published on 14 April 1979
Commenced on 14 April 1979
[This is the version of this document from 14 April 1979.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The M.P. Ayurvedic Ashaskiya Maha Vidyalayon Ke Chhatron Ke Pariksha Sambandhi Vishesh Upbandh Adhiniyam,
1979
(No. 9 of 1979)
[Dated 14th April, 1979]
Received the assent of the President on the 14th April, 1979, assent first published in the Madhya Pradesh Gazette
(Extraordinary), dated the 16th April, 1979.
An Act to make special provision for examination of persons pursuing a course of study in private medical institutions in
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The M.P. Ayurvedic Ashaskiya Maha Vidyalayon Ke Chhatron Ke Pariksha Sambandhi Vishesh Upb...
the State in preparation for examinations for recognised qualifications granted by institutions outside the State and for
that purpose to empower the Madhya Pradesh Board of Ayurvedic and Unani Systems of Medicine and Naturopathy to
conduct examination for the degree of Ayurveda Vigyanacharya (AVMS) and for matters connected therewith.
Be it enacted by the Madhya Pradesh Legislature in the Thirtieth Year of the Republic of India as follows :-
1.
Short title and extent.
(1)
This Act may be called The Madhya Pradesh Ayurvedic Ashaskiya Mahavidyalayon Ke Chhatron Ke Pariksha
Sambandhi Vishesh Upbandh Adhipiyam, 1979.
(2)
It extends to the whole of Madhya Pradesh.
2.
Definitions.
- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Act" means the Madhya Pradesh Ayurvedic Unani Tatha Prakritic Chikitsa Vyavasayi Adhiniyam, 1970 (No. 5 of 1971);
(b)
"Board" means the Madhya Pradesh Board of Ayurvedic and Unani Systems of Medicine and Naturopathy established
and constituted under Sections 3 and 4 of the Act;
(c)
"Private college" means the Private Ayurvedic Colleges specified in the Schedule;
(d)
Words and expressions used but not defined in this Act and defined in the Act shall have the meaning respectively
assigned to them in that Act.
3.
Board to provide examination for AVMS.
- Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in force or any rules or regulations made thereunder
the Board shall admit all persons who were immediately before the coming into force of this Act persuing a course of
study in any private college in preparation of an examination conducted by any institution or Board outside the State
granting a recognised qualification to an examination to be conducted by the Board in accordance with the provisions of
this Act.
4.
Duty of the Board to provide examination for AVMS.
(1)
The Board shall provide for examination for the award of the degree of Ayurveda Vigyanacharya (AVMS) and shall
subject to the regulations made under this section, admit persons thereto whom Section 3 applies.
(2)
The course of study for the examination to be held by the Board under sub-section (1) shall be same as for the
examination for the award of that degree held by the Board under Section 44 of the Act.
(3)
For the purpose of sub-section (1), the first examination shall be held at the end of academic session 1978-79 and the
Board shall continue to provide for the examination till expiration of a period of six years from that academic session.
(4)
The Board may, with the previous sanction of the State Government, make regulations for any of the following matters,
namely :-
(i)
the conditions under which the persons to whom Section 3 applies shall be admitted to the examination of the Board;
(ii)
the conditions of appointment of examiners;
(iii)
the examination fees;
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The M.P. Ayurvedic Ashaskiya Maha Vidyalayon Ke Chhatron Ke Pariksha Sambandhi Vishesh Upb...
(iv)
generally for all other matters in respect of examinations which may be necessary to give effect to this Act.
5.
Amendment of Schedule.
- In the Schedule to the Act, after serial number 7 and entry relating thereto the following serial number and entry shall
be inserted, namely :-
7-A.
Madhya Pradesh Board of Ayurvedic and Unani Systems of
Medicine and Naturopathy
Ayurveda Vigyanacharya
AVMS (after November, 1978).
6.
Repeal.
- The Madhya Pradesh Ayurvedic Ashaskiya Mahavidyalayon Ke Chhatron Ke Pariksha Sambandhi Vishesh Upbandh
Adhyadesh, 1978 (No. 8 of 1978) is hereby repealed.
Schedule
[See clause (c) of Section 2]
Sl. No.
Name of Private Colleges
1.
Shri Ayurved Mahavidyalaya, Bhopal.
2.
Ayurved Vigyan Mahavidyalaya, Ghoghar, Rewa
3.
Indore Ayurved Mahavidyalaya, Indore.
4.
Shriram Ayurved Mahavidyalaya, Chhatarpur.
5.
Valmeek Ayurved Mahavidyalaya, Gwalior.
6.
Ayurved Chikitsa Mahavidyalaya, Durg.
7.
Shri Parmanand Komalchand Jain Ayurved Vidyalaya, Katni.
8.
Guna Ayurved Mahavidyalaya, Guna.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3