
----- PAGE 1 -----
M.P. Khadi Tatha Gramodyog Regulations, 1980
M.P. Khadi Tatha Gramodyog Regulations, 1980
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/92576765/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Madhya Pradesh - Act
M.P. Khadi Tatha Gramodyog Regulations, 1980
MADHYA PRADESH
India
M.P. Khadi Tatha Gramodyog Regulations, 1980
Rule M-P-KHADI-TATHA-GRAMODYOG-REGULATIONS-1980 of 1980
Published on 4 July 1980
Commenced on 4 July 1980
[This is the version of this document from 4 July 1980.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
M.P. Khadi Tatha Gramodyog Regulations, 1980
Published vide Notification No. 1 (A) 7-80-11-A, dated 4-7-1980, M.P. Rajpatra, Part 4(ga), dated 1-8-1980
In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 29 of the Madhya Pradesh Khadi Tatha Gramodyog Adhiniyam, 1978
(No. 16 of 1978), the Madhya Pradesh Khadi and Gramodyog Board, with the approval of the State Government hereby
makes the following rules, namely :-
1.
These regulations may be called the Madhya Pradesh Khadi Tatha Gramodyog Regulations, 1980.
2.
In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires :-
(a)
"Act" means the Madhya Pradesh Khadi Tatha Gramodyog Adhiniyam, 1978 (No. 16 of 1978);
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
M.P. Khadi Tatha Gramodyog Regulations, 1980
(b)
"Board" means the Madhya Pradesh Khadi Tatha Gramodyog Board;
(c)
"Chairman" means the Chairman of the Board;
(d)
"District Committee" means a District Committee constituted under sub-section (1) of Section 12-A;
(e)
"Section" means a section of the Act;
(f)
"Member" means a member of the Board.
3.
(1)
The Chairman shall be entitled to travelling allowance at the rates admissible to grade A employee of the Government of
Madhya Pradesh for journey performed by him for attending to the work of the Board.
(2)
Members of the Board shall be entitled to daily allowance for attending a meeting of the Board of a Committee at the
rates admissible to a member of the Madhya Pradesh Legislative Assembly under the rules made under clause (a) of
sub-section (2) of Section 9 of the Madhya Pradesh Vidhan Sabha Sadasya Vetan Bhatta Tatha Pension Adhiniyam,
1972 (No. 7 of 1973) and shall also be entitled to travelling allowance for journey performed by them for attending a
meeting of the Board or a Committee or attending to other work of the Board at the rates admissible to grade A
employee of the Government of Madhya Pradesh.
4.
The following rules shall mutatis mutandis apply to the officers and other employees of the Board as they apply to the
officers and servants of the corresponding grade in the service of the State Government, namely :
(1)
The Madhya Pradesh Civil Services (Leave) Rules, 1977;
(2)
The Madhya Pradesh Civil Services (Conduct) Rules, 1965;
(3)
The Madhya Pradesh Civil Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1958;
(4)
Rules regarding the grant of travelling allowance and daily allowance.
5.
The Madhya Pradesh Civil Services (General Conditions of Service) Rules, 1961 and the Madhya Pradesh Civil
Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1966 shall mutatis mutandis apply to the officer and other
employees of the Board, subject to the modifications specified below, namely :-
(a)
In the Madhya Pradesh Civil Services (General Conditions of Service) Rules, 1961-
(i)
in Rule 2,-
(a)
In clause (a), the "Appointing Authority" means the appointing authority within the meaning of clause (a) of Rule 2 of the
Madhya Pradesh Gramodyog Board Service Recruitment Rules, 1978;
(ii)
in clause (c),-
"Government" means the Madhya Pradesh Khadi and Gramodyog Board.
(iii)
in clause (e),-
"Post" means a whole time employment under the Board but does not include any employment where the employee is
paid from contingencies.
(b)
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
M.P. Khadi Tatha Gramodyog Regulations, 1980
In the Madhya Pradesh Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1966-
(i)
in Rule 2,-
In clause (a), the "Appointing Authority" means the appointing authority within the meaning of clause (a) of Rule 2 of the
Madhya Pradesh Gramodyog Board Service Recruitment Rules, 1978;
(ii)
in clause (d),-
"Disciplinary Authority" means the authority competent to impose on an employee of the Board any of the penalties
prescribed in Rule 10;
(iii)
in clause (e),-
"Government" means the Madhya Pradesh Khadi and Gramodyog Board.
(iv)
in clause (g),-
"Government Servant" means the employee of the Board.
(v)
in clause (g),-
"Head of the Department" means the Managing Director.
6.
The provisions of the Madhya Pradesh Financial Code and the Madhya Pradesh Treasury Code shall mutatis mutandis
apply for purposes of maintenance of account books and other books as provided in sub-section (1) of Section 19 of the
Act.
7.
(1)
The age of superannuation for officers and other employees, other than class IV employees of the Board shall be 58
years. For class IV employees, the age of superannuation shall be 60 years.
(2)
Notwithstanding anything contained in clause (1), where the Board considers it necessary so to do in the interest of the
Board, it may give extension to any officer or other employee of the Board beyond the age of 58 years subject to his
physical fitness and suitability for discharging the duties.
8.
The employees of the Board who have completed six months service and are between 18 and 58 years of age except
Class IV employees for whom the maximum age limit is 60 years shall be covered under Group Insurance Scheme
which provides a death benefit of Rs. 10,000 per employee which shall be payable to the nominee or legal heirs of every
employee in the event of his death while in service. The monthly premium per employee of class IV shall be Rs. 5 and
for other employees, it shall be Rs. 10 per month, which amount shall be deducted every month from their pay. Out of
the amount so deducted Rs. 4.45 per class IV employee and Rs. 8.17 per other employee or as may be subsequently
determined in consultation with Life Insurance Corporation of India shall be sent to the Life Insurance Corporation of
India, 19 Mahatma Gandhi Road, P.B. No. 130 Indore-1 as monthly premium.
9.
Every Officer and employee of the Board shall, while in office wear uniform made of Khadi and shall as far as possible
make use in office of the article produced by village industries.
10.
Each District Committee shall follow the following procedure :-
(1)
The District Committee shall meet at least once in two months. Cases for setting up of new units of approved village
Industries shall be prepared by the District Inspector according to the pattern prescribed and put up before the
Committee for scrutiny and sanction, out of the funds allotted by the Board. After sanction, the sanctioned grant/loan
shall be released to the artisan by Manager, Gramodyog on completion of formalities prescribed by the Board.
(2)
The funds allotted by the Board shall be kept in Nationalised Bank/Co-operative Bank. No disbursement shall be made
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
M.P. Khadi Tatha Gramodyog Regulations, 1980
unless it is sanctioned by the Committee, after sanction by the District Committee. The amount shall be released and
kept in the Joint Account of the District Inspector and the concerned individual artisan. The first instalment shall be
released by the District Inspector to the artisan concerned for purchase of implements etc. from the loan and the
subsequent instalments shall be released after he is satisfied that the first instalment is properly utilised.
(3)
The District Inspector shall also maintain a register showing details and dates of the cases, put up to the District
Committee and decision taken thereon and the date on which the unit was set up, it started production and date on
which the utilisation certificate was sent by him to the Board.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4