
----- PAGE 1 -----
The M.P. Khadi Tatha Gramodyog Board (Kalyan Nidhi) Regulations, 1980
The M.P. Khadi Tatha Gramodyog Board (Kalyan Nidhi) Regulations,
1980
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/62862443/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Madhya Pradesh - Act
The M.P. Khadi Tatha Gramodyog Board (Kalyan Nidhi) Regulations, 1980
MADHYA PRADESH
India
The M.P. Khadi Tatha Gramodyog Board (Kalyan Nidhi) Regulations, 1980
Rule THE-M-P-KHADI-TATHA-GRAMODYOG-BOARD-KALYAN-NIDHI-REGULATIONS-1980 of 1980
Published on 8 December 1980
Commenced on 8 December 1980
[This is the version of this document from 8 December 1980.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The M.P. Khadi Tatha Gramodyog Board (Kalyan Nidhi) Regulations, 1980
Published vide Notification No. 1 (A)-7-80-11-A, dated 8-12-1980, M.P. Rajpatra, Part 4(ga), dated 30-1-1981
In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 29 of the Madhya Pradesh Khadi Tatha Gramodyog Adhiniyam, 1978
(No. 16 of 1978), the Madhya Pradesh Khadi and Gramodyog Board, with the approval of the State Government hereby
makes the following regulations, namely :-
1.
These regulations may be called the Madhya Pradesh Khadi Tatha Gramodyog Board (Kalyan Nidhi) Regulations, 1980.
2.
In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires :-
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
The M.P. Khadi Tatha Gramodyog Board (Kalyan Nidhi) Regulations, 1980
(1)
"Board" means the Madhya Pradesh Gramodyog Board established under Section 4.
(2)
"Fund" means the fund referred to in Regulation 3.
(3)
"Employee" means an employee of the Board.
(4)
"Member" means the employee of the Board who contributes towards the Madhya Pradesh Gramodyog Board
Bhavishya Nidhi Regulations, 1963.
(5)
"Committee" means the committee referred to in Regulation 4.
3.
The fund shall consist of the amount received from the following sources :-
(1)
The entire amount of the Contributory Provident Fund at the credit of the member who or his nominee does not claim
within three years as per rules, of the Madhya Pradesh Gramodyog Board Bhavishya Nidhi Regulations, 1963.
(2)
The amount of the contribution of the Board and interest thereon towards the contributory fund of the employee who
resigns from service of the Board within five years from the date of appointment, as per Regulation 29 of the Madhya
Pradesh Gramodyog Board Bhavishya Nidhi Regulations, 1963.
(3)
The amount of contribution of the Board and interest thereon at the credit of the member who is dismissed from service
or whose services have been terminated, as per Regulation 30.
(4)
Any surplus in the Provident Fund Account after leaving enough money in the Account to discharge all claims of all
employees in the full at any given time.
(5)
Compulsory contribution from the employees of the Board at the following rates :-
(i)
Rs. 25.00 yearly for class I and II Officers.
(ii)
Rs. 10.00 yearly for class III employees.
(iii)
Rs. 5.00 yearly for class IV employees.
(6)
Such other contributions as the Board may make into the fund out of its own resources from time to time.
4.
The Fund shall be operated by a committee consisting of the following members :-
(1)
Managing Director-Chairman.
(2)
Administrative Officer-Member.
(3)
Financial Adviser--Member.
(4)
Three members out of the employees of the Board of which two shall be nominated by the Chairman and the third by the
members of Bhavishya Nidhi Regulations, 1963 Fund.
(5)
Accounts Officer shall be the Secretary of the Committee.
5.
The investment of the Fund shall be made by the Financial Adviser in accordance with the direction of the Committee.
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
The M.P. Khadi Tatha Gramodyog Board (Kalyan Nidhi) Regulations, 1980
Such investment may be made in Government Securities e.g. Unit Trust, Postal Saving Certificates, National Saving
Certificates, Fixed Deposit in any nationalised bank and separate ordinary account in a Nationalised Bank or Post
Office.
6.
(i)
In the absence of the Managing Director, the Administrative Officer or in his absence, the Financial Adviser shall preside
over the meeting of the Committee.
(ii)
The Secretary shall call the meeting as and when necessary.
(iii)
The presence of three members including the Chairman shall form a quorum wherein presence of at least one
representative of the employee shall be compulsory.
(iv)
The decision of the Committee shall be by a vote of majority. In case of equality of votes, the Chairman shall be at liberty
to take final decision.
7.
Subject to availability of money in the account of the Fund the Committee shall be competent to sanction financial
assistance for the welfare of employees on items specified below :-
(1)
Children of the employees for their education ranging from Rs. 25/- to Rs. 450/- at the following rates :-
(a)
For Students of class I to V
@ Rs. 25/- p.
student per year
(b)
For VI to VIII
@ Rs. 50/-
-do-
(c)
For IX to XI
@ Rs. 75/-
-do-
(d)
For students doing graduation and post graduation
@ Rs. 250/-
-do-
(e)
For students studying in diploma or certificate technical
course
@ Rs. 350/-
student per year
(f)
For students studying in technical courses equivalent to a
degree or
@ Rs. 450/- above :
Provided that no employee shall be eligible to get the assistance from the fund for more than 3 children in all.
(2)
For illness, distress or natural calamities during, upto
service of the employees.
Maximum Rs. 1,000. In special cases where the Committee
agrees, grant of advance upto Rs. 2,000 with interest free
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
The M.P. Khadi Tatha Gramodyog Board (Kalyan Nidhi) Regulations, 1980
recoverable in instalments not exceeding 36 shall be made.
(3)
Advance for purchase of cycle or motor cycle to the employees.
Equal to cost not exceeding Rs. 400 repayable in 12
instalments for cycle and Rs. 4,000 repayable in 60 instalments
for motor cycle which shall be interest free.
(4)
For housing purposes.
Half the amount for purchase of land and its development which
shall be interest free.
(5)
Advances for purchase of Grain.
Employees shall be paid an advance not exceeding Rs. 500 or
four months' salary whichever is less. Advance shall be interest
free, and shall be recoverable in ten equal instalments.
8.
For financial assistance mentioned in clause (2) of the Regulation 7, the employees shall have to furnish within time
specified receipts from school, colleges, shops concerned justifying proper utilization of the financial assistance given to
him and similarly for assistance mentioned in clause (3) o Regulation 7, receipts from schools, colleges, Board,
University concerned. In the absence of adequate proof as specified above or misuse of the amount, it shall be
recovered in one or more instalments from his pay and he shall have no right to raise any objection in that behalf.
9.
The Secretary of the Committee shall prepare a budget indicating the amount of financial assistance proposed to be
given to the employees and obtain sanction of the committee.
10.
If any doubt arises in regard to the interpretation of these regulations, the matter shall be referred to the Board whose
decision thereon shall be final.
11.
The amounts of the fund, alongwith a report shall, be put up to the Board within 3 months, after the close of each year.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4