
----- PAGE 1 -----
The M.P. Municipalities Tax on Vehicles, Boats and Animals Entering within the limits of t...
The M.P. Municipalities Tax on Vehicles, Boats and Animals Entering
within the limits of the Municipalities (Assessment, Collection and
Refund) Rules, 1988
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/103022185/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Madhya Pradesh - Act
The M.P. Municipalities Tax on Vehicles, Boats and Animals Entering within the limits of the Municipalities (Assessment,
Collection and Refund) Rules, 1988
MADHYA PRADESH
India
The M.P. Municipalities Tax on Vehicles, Boats and Animals Entering within the limits of the Municipalities (Assessment,
Collection and Refund) Rules, 1988
Rule
THE-M-P-MUNICIPALITIES-TAX-ON-VEHICLES-BOATS-AND-ANIMALS-ENTERING-WITHIN-THE-LIMITS-OF-THE-M
UNICIPALITIES-ASSESSMENT-COLLECTION-AND-REFUND-RULES-1988 of 1988
Published on 30 December 1988
Commenced on 30 December 1988
[This is the version of this document from 30 December 1988.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The M.P. Municipalities Tax on Vehicles, Boats and Animals Entering within the limits of the Municipalities (Assessment,
Collection and Refund) Rules, 1988
Published vide Notification No. 363-18-2-88, dated 30-12-1988, M.P. Rajpatra, Part 2, dated 13-1-1989
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The M.P. Municipalities Tax on Vehicles, Boats and Animals Entering within the limits of t...
In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (iii) of sub-section (2) of Section 127, read with sub-section (1) of Section
355 of the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1961 (
No. 37 of 1961
) and in supersession of all rules previously made on this subject, the State Government hereby makes the following
rules, the same having been previously published vide this Department Notification No. 442-XVIII-II-87, dated the 5th
December, 1987, as required by sub-section (3) of Section 356 of the said Act, namely ;-
1.
These rules may be called the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities Tax on Vehicles, Boats and Animals Entering within the
limits of the Municipalities (Assessment, Collection and Refund) Rules, 1988.
2.
They shall come into force in a Municipal Council on such date on which such Municipal Council imposes the said tax
within its limits under Section 129 of the said Act :
Provided that where the Council has already imposed the said tax these rules shall come into force from the date of
publication in the Gazette.
3.
As from the date of commencement of these rules, all rules and bye-laws corresponding to these rules in force
immediately before the commencement of these rules shall stand repealed :
Provided that anything done or any action taken under any of these rules, so repealed shall unless such things or action
is inconsistent with the provisions of these rules be deemed to have been done or taken under the corresponding
provisions of these rules.
4.
In these rules unless the context otherwise requires :-
(a)
"Act" means the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1961 (
No. 37 of 1961
);
(b)
"Council" means the Municipal Council;
(c)
"Chief Municipal Officer" means the Chief Municipal Officer of the Council;
(d)
"Municipality" means such Municipal Council, which has imposed the tax on vehicles, boats and animals entering within
the limits of such Municipality under Section 129 of the Act;
(e)
"Tax" means the tax as enumerated under clause (iii) of sub-section (1) of Section 127 of the Act and imposed under
Section 129 of the Act.
5.
Every person liable for the tax shall pay the amount of the tax to such person as may be authorised by the Council in
that behalf and at such nakas or barriers as may be fixed for the purpose by the Council.
6.
A table legibly written or printed in Hindi showing the rates of tax payable in respect of vehicles, boats and animals shall
be displayed for the information of the public in conspicuous place in the vicinity of the nakas or barriers at which the tax
is collected.
7.
A receipt for payment of tax shall be given in such form as may be determined by the Council.
8.
(1)
In the case of non-payment of the tax payable on demand, the person authorised to collect the tax under Rule 5 may
seize any vehicle, boat or animal on which the lax is payable or any goods or part thereof carried by such vehicle, boat
or animal which is of sufficient value to satisfy the demand and may detain the same. A list of the property seized
together with a written notice that it shall be sold in the manner specified in the notice shall be furnished to the person
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The M.P. Municipalities Tax on Vehicles, Boats and Animals Entering within the limits of t...
from whose possession the property is seized (hereinafter referred to as the defaulter). A copy of the notice shall at the
same time be given to the Chief Municipal Officer of the Council.
(2)
When any property seized under sub-rule (1) is subject to speedy and natural decay or when the expense of keeping it
are likely to exceed the amount of the tax payable by the defaulter, the same shall be taken to the Chief Municipal
Officer and the Chief Municipal Officer shall proceed to sell it forthwith.
(3)
If at any time before the sale is completed the tax due together with all charges incurred in connection with the seizure
or detention is tendered to the Chief Municipal Officer, the property seized shall forthwith be released.
(4)
If no such lender is made the sale shall be effected and the proceeds of the sale shall be applied towards payment of
the tax and expenses incidental to the seizure, detention and sale and the surplus, if any, shall be paid to the defaulter.
9.
Any breach of these rules shall be punishable with fine which may extend to two hundred rupees.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3