
----- PAGE 1 -----
The M.P. Janapada Panchayats Theatre Tax (Regulation of Imposition, Assessment and Collect...
The M.P. Janapada Panchayats Theatre Tax (Regulation of
Imposition, Assessment and Collection) Rules, 1996
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/144071451/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Madhya Pradesh - Act
The M.P. Janapada Panchayats Theatre Tax (Regulation of Imposition, Assessment and Collection) Rules, 1996
MADHYA PRADESH
India
The M.P. Janapada Panchayats Theatre Tax (Regulation of Imposition, Assessment and Collection) Rules, 1996
Rule
THE-M-P-JANAPADA-PANCHAYATS-THEATRE-TAX-REGULATION-OF-IMPOSITION-ASSESSMENT-AND-COLLEC
TION-RULES-1996 of 1996
Published on 29 February 1996
Commenced on 29 February 1996
[This is the version of this document from 29 February 1996.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The M.P. Janapada Panchayats Theatre Tax (Regulation of Imposition, Assessment and Collection) Rules, 1996
Published vide Notification No. B-1-43-95-22-P-2, dated 29-2-1996, M.P. Rajpatra (Asadharan), dated 29-2-1996 at p.
136(1)
In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 95 read with sub-section (1) of Section 77 of the
Madhya Pradesh Panchayat Raj Adhiniyam, 1993 (No. 1 of 1994); the State Government hereby makes the following
rules, the same having been previously published as required by sub-section (3) of Section 95 of the said Act, namely :-
1.
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
The M.P. Janapada Panchayats Theatre Tax (Regulation of Imposition, Assessment and Collect...
Short title.
- These rules may he called the Madhya Pradesh Janapada Panchayats Theatre Tax (Regulation of Imposition,
Assessment and Collection) Rules, 1996.
2.
Definitions.
- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Act" means the Madhya Pradesh Panchayat Raj Adhiniyam, 1993 (No. 1 of 1994);
(b)
"Amusement" includes a cinema, drama, circus, carnival or fete, tamasha, wrestling performances or any other
performance of amusement;
(c)
"Cinema" means a representation on the screen of a real or imaginary incident by means of photographic film or video
tape;
(d)
"Circus" means any amusement in which horsemanship and other feates of bodily exercise are exhibited but this does
not include one-man show such as cycle-jump, motor cycle-jumps etc.
(e)
"Drama" means any stage representation by persons of incidents imaginary or real, and includes a mimic drama in
which  dummies are used as dramatic personages and includes a musical concert or acts of jugglery;
(f)
"Each performance" means every performance given in the course of a single day or night, be there one performance or
more to attend which a separate charge is made for each performance;
(g)
"Manager" includes a proprietor, secretary or any person responsible for the arrangement of such performance ans shall
also include a commission agent or contractor or any person who receives as an owner, partner or servant, the whole or
part of the earnings of such performance or any person who issued passes or tickets of signs handbills of such
performance;
(h)
"Tamasha" means any ancient form of popular entertainment which depicts the customs and manners of the society
through a medium of a farce, mimicry conversation, music or navatanki;
(i)
"Tax" means a tax imposed under Rule 3.
3.
Imposition.
- Subject to the provisions of the Act and to such conditions and exceptions as may be prescribed by these rules, a tax
on theatres, theatrical performance and other shows for public amusement may be imposed by every Janapada
Panchayat on each performance of cinema, drama, circus, carnival or fete, tamasha wrestling performance and any
other performance of amusement as specified below: -
Minimum per show Rs.
Maximum per show Rs.
1.
Cinema
10
20
2.
Drama, Circus
7
15
3.
Carnival of Fete, Tamasha Wrestling performance
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
The M.P. Janapada Panchayats Theatre Tax (Regulation of Imposition, Assessment and Collect...
5
10
4.
Any other performance of amusement
3
5
4.
Tax where not leviable.
- The lax shall not be leviable in respect of -
(a)
any amusement to which no charge is made;
(b)
any amusement which is not open to the general public on payment.
5.
Tax by whom payable.
- The tax shall be payable by the manager of the amusement.
6.
Tax where payable.
- The tax shall be payable at the Janapada Panchayat Office or at such other place or places as the Chief Executive
Officer may from time to time appoint in this behalf before the commencement of the performance in respect of which
the tax is due by the manager.
7.
Payment of tax in one amount.
- The Chief Executive Officer may arrange with any person liable for the payment of the tax in respect of a series of
performances intended lo be given of any amusement for the payment by such person in one amount for such series
extending over not more than one month at a time in lieu of separate payments for each performance.
8.
Recovery of the tax.
- If the tax is not paid in respect of any performance, the Chief Executive Officer shall by written notice call upon the
defaulter to pay the amount due within such period as may be specified in the notice and if the payment is not made
within the specified period the arrears of the lax shall be recoverable in the manner specified in Section 81 of the Act.
9.
Refund.
(1)
The Chief Executive Officer shall refund the amount of the lax paid in respect of any particular performance if he is
satisfied on the evidence placed before him and after such further enquiry, if any, as he may deem necessary, that such
performance did not actually take place and that the amount, if any collected from intending spectators has been
refunded in full.
(2)
It shall be in the discretion of the Chief Executive Officer to disallow any claim for refund of tax unless an application
claiming such refund is made to him in writing within three days of the day on which the intended performance in respect
of which the tax was paid was due lo lake place or within seven days of the date of performance, as the case may be.
10.
Penalty.
- In the event of any breach of any rule relating lo the tax the offender shall be punishable with fine which may extend to
five hundred rupees and in the case of continuing breach with fine which may extend lo rupees fifty for every day during
which the breach continues.
11.
Repeal.
- All the previous rules on the subject shall stand repealed from the dale of final publication of these rules in the "Madhya
Pradesh Gazette".
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
The M.P. Janapada Panchayats Theatre Tax (Regulation of Imposition, Assessment and Collect...
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4