
----- PAGE 1 -----
Madhya Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (Manner of Holding Inquiry by Adjudicatin...
Madhya Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (Manner of
Holding Inquiry by Adjudicating Officer) Rules, 2014
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/153622839/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Madhya Pradesh - Act
Madhya Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (Manner of Holding Inquiry by Adjudicating Officer) Rules, 2014
MADHYA PRADESH
India
Madhya Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (Manner of Holding Inquiry by Adjudicating Officer) Rules, 2014
Rule
MADHYA-PRADESH-ELECTRICITY-REGULATORY-COMMISSION-MANNER-OF-HOLDING-INQUIRY-BY-ADJUDICA
TING-OFFICER-RULES-2014 of 2014
Published on 9 January 2015
Commenced on 9 January 2015
[This is the version of this document from 9 January 2015.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Madhya Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (Manner of Holding Inquiry by Adjudicating Officer) Rules, 2014
Published vide Notification No. F-3-49-2014-XIII, dated 09.01.2015
Last Updated 10th February, 2020
No. F-3-49-2014-XIII. - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (1) of sub-section (2) of Section 180 read with
sub-section (1) of Section 143 of the Electricity Act, 2003 (No. 36 of 2003), the State Government, hereby, makes the
following rules regulating the procedure for holding the inquiry by an Adjudicating Officer, namely :-
1.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Madhya Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (Manner of Holding Inquiry by Adjudicatin...
Short title and Commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Madhya Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (Manner of Holding Inquiry by
Adjudicating Officer) Rules, 2014;
(2)
They shall come into force from the date of their publication in the Madhya Pradesh Gazette.
2.
Definition.
(1)
In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, -
(a)
"Act" means the Electricity Act, 2003 (No. 36 of 2003);
(b)
"Adjudicating Officer" means the Adjudicating Officer appointed by Madhya Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission
under sub-section (1) of Section 143 of the Act;
(c)
"Commission" means Madhya Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission constituted under the Electricity Act, 2003
(No. 36 of 2003).
(2)
Words and expression used and not defined in these rules but defined in the Act shall have the same meanings
respectively assigned to them in that Act.
3.
Manner of holding Inquiry by Adjudicating Officer.
(1)
Whenever commission appoints an adjudicating officer under sub-section (1) of Section 143, a copy of the appointment
order shall be provided to the person concerned.
(2)
In holding an inquiry under the Act, the Adjudicating Officer shall, in the first instance, issue a notice to the person
concerned requiring him to show cause, within twenty one days from the date of issue of such notice, as to why an
inquiry should not be held against him.
(3)
Every notice under sub-rule (2) shall indicate the nature of contravention alleged to have been committed.
(4)
If, after considering the reasons if any, shown by concerned person or where no reason is shown, the Adjudicating
Officer is of the opinion that an inquiry should be held, he shall for Reasons to be recorded in writing, issue a notice for
fixing a date for the appearance of that person either personally or through an authorized representative.
(5)
The Adjudicating Officer shall give an opportunity to the concerned person to produce such evidence as he may
consider relevant and necessary for the inquiry.
(6)
If any person fails, neglects or refuses to appear before the Adjudicating Officer as required under sub-rule (2), the
Adjudicating Officer shall have power to proceed with the inquiry in the absence of such person after recording the
reasons for doing so.
(7)
The Adjudicating Officer, while holding an inquiry, shall follow as far as possible, the same procedure as is followed in
the proceedings before the Commission in exercise of its powers and in discharge of its functions under the provisions
of the said Act.
(8)
The Adjudicating Officer shall complete the inquiry as for as possible, within ninety days from the date of issue of notice
to the concerned person.
(9)
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Madhya Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (Manner of Holding Inquiry by Adjudicatin...
Where the inquiry may not be completed within the aforesaid period, the Adjudicating Officer may, after recording
reasons in writing, seek extension of time from the Chairperson of the Commission for a further period not exceeding
sixty days.
(10)
Upon completion of the inquiry the Adjudicating Officer shall place his findings of enquiry along with proceedings to the
Commission within fifteen clays.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3