
----- PAGE 1 -----
Madhya Pradesh District Court Technical Manpower (Appointment & Conditions of Service) Rul...
Madhya Pradesh District Court Technical Manpower (Appointment &
Conditions of Service) Rules, 2019
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/123312344/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Madhya Pradesh - Act
Madhya Pradesh District Court Technical Manpower (Appointment & Conditions of Service) Rules, 2019
MADHYA PRADESH
India
Madhya Pradesh District Court Technical Manpower (Appointment & Conditions of Service) Rules, 2019
Rule
MADHYA-PRADESH-DISTRICT-COURT-TECHNICAL-MANPOWER-APPOINTMENT-CONDITIONS-OF-SERVICE-RU
LES-2019 of 2019
Published on 19 June 2019
Commenced on 19 June 2019
[This is the version of this document from 19 June 2019.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Madhya Pradesh District Court Technical Manpower (Appointment & Conditions of Service) Rules, 2019
Published vide Notification No. dz3202-2019-21-c-(,d), dated 19.6.2019
Last Updated 28th January, 2020
Notification No. dz3202-2019-21-c-(,d). - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to Article 309 of the
Constitution of India, the Governor of Madhya Pradesh, in consultation with the High Court of Madhya Pradesh, hereby,
makes following Rules to regulate the appointment and other conditions of service of posts of Technical Manpower
created under the National Policy and Action Plan for Implementation of Information and Communication Technology in
Page 1/5
----- PAGE 2 -----
Madhya Pradesh District Court Technical Manpower (Appointment & Conditions of Service) Rul...
the Indian Judiciary, prepared by the e-Committee of the Supreme Court of India, dated 01.08.2005, for the service of
employees of the establishment of District Courts under the superintendence of High Court of Madhya Pradesh.
1.
Short title, commencement and extent of application.
(1)
These Rules shall be called "The Madhya Pradesh District Court Technical Manpower (Appointment & Conditions of
Service)Rules, 2019".
(2)
They shall come into force from the date of publication in the Madhya Pradesh Gazette.
(3)
These Rules shall apply as one time measure of appointment.
(4)
These Rules shall apply to, -
(a)
all persons appointed in Technical Manpower Posts in the Establishment of District Courts in the State of Madhya
Pradesh.
(b)
person appointed in Technical Manpower posts includes System Officer and System Assistant.
2.
The appointment shall be made on the following posts.
(1)
System Administrator (now re-designated as Junior System Analyst).
(2)
Console Operator/System Manager (now re-designated as Senior Computer Programmer Assistant).
3.
Appointing Authority.
-
S.No.
Categories
Appointing Authority
(1)
System Administrator (now re-designated as
Junior System Analyst)
The District Judge of the district concerned
(2)
Console Operator/ System Manager (now
re-designated as Senior Computer Programmer Assistant)
4.
Age.
- Candidate should be above 18 years but should not have crossed the maximum age prescribed by the State
Government:
Provided that the Candidate appointed under the scheme of e- Court Project of the Supreme Court of India and has
worked for 2 years or more, shall be entitled for age relaxation of the period of such appointment/services, subject to
maximum age limit up to 55 years, for the posts mentioned in Schedule-I.
5.
Qualification and Mode of Appointment to the posts.
- The qualification and mode of appointment to the posts shall be as prescribed in Schedule-I and Schedule-II of these
rules.
6.
Provision for reservation of Appointment.
(1)
Page 2/5
----- PAGE 3 -----
Madhya Pradesh District Court Technical Manpower (Appointment & Conditions of Service) Rul...
Posts shall be reserved for the members of the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes to
such extent and in such manner as may be specified by the State Government from time to time. The reservation for
these categories shall be applicable only vertically:
Provided that reservation on the district level posts shall be as per the district wise reservation roster, issued by the
General Administration Department from time to time.
(2)
Total 6 percent Horizontal reservation shall be given to persons with physical impairment in the following manner:-
1.
Blindness and low vision
1.5%
2.
Deaf and hard of hearing
1.5%
3.
Locomotive disability including cerebral palsy,
leprosy cured, dwarfism, acid attack victims and muscular
dystrophy
1.5%
4.
Autism, intellectual disability, specific
learning disability and mental illness
1.5%
Provided that if such reserved posts or any of them are not filled in a given recruitment year due to non-availability of
suitable candidate, they shall be re-advertised for respective categories once more and if any such posts remain vacant
due to the same reason, they shall first be filled by interchange among the five categories of disabled persons and if it
remains vacant, they shall be treated as un-reserved posts.
Provided that the reservation shall be made as per the posts identified and earmarked by the High Court for specially
abled persons.
(3)
As per the provision of the Madhya Pradesh Civil Services (Special Provisions for Appointment of Women) Rules, 1997,
33 percent Horizontal reservation shall be applicable for women candidates.
(4)
Appointments shall be made strictly in accordance with the roster- prescribed separately for direct recruitment.
(5)
Verification of percentage of physical impairment case of "Specially abled" candidates shall be done by the District
Medical Board.
(6)
As per provision of The Madhya Pradesh Lok Seva (Anushuchit Jatiyon Anusuchit Jan Jatiyon Aur Anya Pichhade
Vargon Ke Liye Arakshan) Adhiniyam, 1994, in the event of non-availability of the eligible and suitable candidates
amongst the Other Backward Classes, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, as the case may be, in a particular
year, the vacancies so reserved for them shall not be filled by the members who do not belong to such castes or tribes
or classes as the case may be.
If in respect of any recruitment year any vacancy reserved or any category of persons belongs to Other Backward
Castes, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes remains unfilled, such vacancy shall be carried forward to be filled up
in the next or three consecutive recruitment years.
When a vacancy carried forward in the manner aforesaid it shall not be counted against the quota of the vacancies
reserved for the concerned category of persons for the recruitment year to which it is carried forward:
Provided that the appointing authority may at any time undertake a special recruitment to fill up such unfilled vacancy
and if such vacancies remain unfilled it shall be carried forward to the next or three consecutive recruitment years in total
and thereafter such reservation would lapse.
7.
Page 3/5
----- PAGE 4 -----
Madhya Pradesh District Court Technical Manpower (Appointment & Conditions of Service) Rul...
Interpretation of these Rules.
- Whenever any difficulty or doubt arises in applying and/or interpreting these Rules, the decision of the High Court,
thereon, shall be final.
8.
Relaxation.
- Nothing in these Rules shall be construed to limit or abridge the power of the High Court to deal with the case of any
person(s) to whom these rules apply. The High Court may dispense with or relax any particular rule in such manner as
may appear to it as just and equitable.
9.
Residuary provision.
(1)
All members of the service shall be subject to the superintendence of the High Court.
(2)
In respect of all matters (not provided in these rules) regarding the conditions of service of the members including
matters relating to the conduct, control and discipline, provisions of M.P. Civil Services (General Conditions of Services)
Rules, 1961, M.P. Civil Services (Conduct) Rules 1965, M.P. Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules,
1966 and all others Rules applicable to M.P. State Government Employees shall apply subject to such modification,
variation and exceptions, as the High Court may, from time to time, specify.
I
(See Rule 5)
S.No.
Name of Service
Education & Technical Qualification
Prescribed
1.
Junior System Analyst
1.
B.E./B.Tech (C.S/IT.)
/ MCA / M.Sc. (C.S/IT.) from recognized university with atleast 2
years experience of working on Linux/ Open Source Software /
Windows / DBMS / Software development/Desktop &Network
support.
Or
ME/M.Tech (C.S/ IT.) with atleast 1 year
experience of working on Linux / Open source software / Windows /
DBMS / Software development /Desktop & Network support.
2.
Work experience of not less than 2 years in
District Court Establishment or High Court 5
2.
Senior Computer Programmer Assistant
1.
B.E. / B.Tech / B.Sc.
in C.S. / I.T. /Electronics & Telecommunications / B.C.A./
M.C.A./ M.Sc.
(Electronics / C.S. / I.T) with atleast 1 year
experience in working on Linux / Open Source Software / Windows /
DBMS / Software development.
2.
Work experience of not less than 2 years in
District Court Establishment or High Court.
Page 4/5
----- PAGE 5 -----
Madhya Pradesh District Court Technical Manpower (Appointment & Conditions of Service) Rul...
II
(See Rule 5)
S. No.
Name of the post
Classification
scale of pay
Appointing authority
Method of Recruitment
1.
Junior System Analyst
Class - III
9300-34800+GP 4200 (As per 6th pay commission)
District Judge
By direct recruitment through suitability test
conducted by High Court from amongst the persons appointed as
District Judge System Officer under c court Project of the
Supreme Court of India with essential qualification prescribed
in these Rules
2.
Senior Computer Programmer Assistant
Class - III
9300-34800+GP 3600 (As per 6th pay commission)
District Judge
By direct recruitment through suitability test
conducted by High Court from, amongst the persons appointed as
District Judge Assistant under e-Court Project of the Supreme
Court of India with essential qualification prescribed in these
Rules.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 5/5