
----- PAGE 1 -----
Madhya Pradesh High Court Technical Manpower (Appointment & Conditions of Service) Rules, ...
Madhya Pradesh High Court Technical Manpower (Appointment &
Conditions of Service) Rules, 2019
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/59970578/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Madhya Pradesh - Act
Madhya Pradesh High Court Technical Manpower (Appointment & Conditions of Service) Rules, 2019
MADHYA PRADESH
India
Madhya Pradesh High Court Technical Manpower (Appointment & Conditions of Service) Rules, 2019
Rule
MADHYA-PRADESH-HIGH-COURT-TECHNICAL-MANPOWER-APPOINTMENT-CONDITIONS-OF-SERVICE-RULES-
2019 of 2019
Published on 21 August 2019
Commenced on 21 August 2019
[This is the version of this document from 21 August 2019.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Madhya Pradesh High Court Technical Manpower (Appointment & Conditions of Service) Rules, 2019
Published vide Notification No. A-2633 Jabalpur, dated 21.08.2019
Last Updated 14th February, 2020
No. A-2633. - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to Article 229 of the Constitution of India, the High
Court of Madhya Pradesh, hereby make following Rules to regulate the appointment and other conditions of service of
posts of Technical Manpower created under the National Policy and Action Plan for Implementation of Information and
Communication Technology in the Indian Judiciary, prepared by the e-Committee of the Supreme Court of India, dated
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
Madhya Pradesh High Court Technical Manpower (Appointment & Conditions of Service) Rules, ...
01.08.2005, for the service of employees of the High Court of Madhya Pradesh, namely:-
1.
Short title, commencement and extent of application.
(1)
These Rules shall be called "The Madhya Pradesh High Court Technical Manpower (Appointment & Conditions of
Service) Rules, 2019"
(2)
They shall come into force from the date of their publication in the Madhya Pradesh Gazette.
(3)
These Rules shall apply to, -
(a)
all persons appointed in the Establishment of High Courts in the State of Madhya Pradesh, Technical Manpower posts.
(b)
Person appointed in Technical Manpower posts includes System Officer and System Assistant and regular technical
appointees of the High Court and District Courts.
(4)
The provision of these Rule shall apply as one time measure of appointment.
2.
The appointment shall be made on the following posts.
(1)
System Administrator (now re-designated as Junior System Analyst).
(2)
Console Operator/System Manager (now re-designated as Senior Computer Programmer Assistant)
3.
Appointing Authority.
S. No.
Categories
Appointing Authority
(1)
System Administrator
(now re-designated as Junior System Analyst)
The Registrar General of High Court.
(2)
Console Operator/System Manager (now
re-designated as Senior Computer Programmer Assistant)
4.
Age.
- Candidate should be above 18 years but should not have crossed the maximum age prescribed by the High Court.
Provided that the Candidate appointed under the scheme of e-Court Project of the Supreme Court of India and has
worked for 2 years or more, shall be entitled for age relaxation of the period of such appointment/services, subject to
maximum age limit up to 55 years, for the posts mentioned in Schedule-1.
5.
Qualification and Mode of Appointment to the posts.
- The qualification and mode of appointment to the posts shall be as prescribed in these Rules as mentioned in
Schedule-I and Schedule-II.
6.
Reservation for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and for Other Backward Classes.
(1)
Reservation for direct recruitment to the various Class III and Class IV posts on the establishment in favour of the
Scheduled Castes. Scheduled Tribes and for Other Backward Classes shall be in accordance with the orders issued by
the Chief Justice. Carry forward Rule shall not apply.
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
Madhya Pradesh High Court Technical Manpower (Appointment & Conditions of Service) Rules, ...
7.
A total 4 percent Horizontal reservation shall be given to persons with physical impairment in the following manner -
1
Blindness and low vision
1%
2
Deaf and hard of hearing
1%
3
Locomotive disability including cerebral palsy,
leprosy cured, dwarfism, acid attack victims and muscular
dystrophy
1%
4
Autism, intellectual disability, specific
learning disability and mental illness
1%
Provided that the reservation shall be made as per the posts identified and earmarked by the High Court for specially
abled persons.
8.
Interpretation of these Rules.
- Whenever any difficulty or doubt arises in applying and/or interpreting these Rules, the decision of the Chief Justice
thereon shall be final.
9.
Relaxation.
- Nothing in these Rules shall be construed to limit or abridge the power of the Chief Justice to deal with the case of any
person(s) to whom these rules apply. The Chief Justice may dispense with or relax any particular rule in such manner as
may appear to it as just and equitable.
10.
Residuary provision.
(1)
All members of the service shall be subject to the superintendence of the High Court.
(2)
In respect of all matters (not provided in these rules) regarding the conditions of service of the members of the service,
including matters relating to the conduct, control and discipline, provisions of M.P. Civil Services (General Conditions of
Services) Rules, 1961; M.P. Civil Services (Conduct) Rules 1965; M.P. Civil Services (Classification, Control and
Appeal) Rules, 1966 and all others Rules applicable to M.P. State Government Employees shall apply subject to such
modification, variation and exceptions, as the High Court may, from time to time specify.
I
(See Rule 5)
S.No.
Name of Service
Educational & Technical Qualification
Prescribed
1.
Junior System Analyst
1.
B.E./B.Tech.
(C.S/LT.) / MCA / M.Sc. (C.S/I.T.) from recognized university
with atleast 2 years experience of working on Linux / Open Source
Software / Windows / DBMS / Software development / Desktop &
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
Madhya Pradesh High Court Technical Manpower (Appointment & Conditions of Service) Rules, ...
Network support.
OR
M.E./M.Tech (C.S/LT.) with atleast 1 year
experience of working on Linux / Open source software / Windows /
DBMS / Software development / Desktop & Network support.
2.
Work experience of not less than 2 years in
District Court Establishment or High Court
2.
Senior Computer Programmer Assistant
1.
B.E. / B.Tech. / B.Sc. in C.S. / I.T. /
Electronics & Telecommunications / Diploma in Computer
/Electronics Engineering / B.C.A. / M.C.A. / M.Sc. (Electronics /
C.S. / I.T.) with atleast 1 year experience in working on Linux /
Open Source Software / Windows / DBMS / Software development.
2.
Work experience of not less than 2 years in
District Court Establishment or High Court.
II
(See Rule 5)
S.No.
Name of the post
Classification
Scale of Pay
Appointing Authority
Method of Recruitment
1.
Junior System Analyst
Class-III
9300-34800 + GP 4200 (As per 6th pay commission)
Registrar General
Recruitment through suitability test conducted
by the High Court from amongst the persons appointed as System
Officer under e-Court Project of the Supreme Court of India and
regular technical appointees of the High Court and District Court
with essential qualification prescribed in these Rules
2.
Senior Computer Programmer Assistant
Class-III
9300-34800 + GP 3600 (As per 6th Pay Commission)
Registrar General
Recruitment through suitability test conducted
by the High Court from amongst the persons appointed as System
Officer / System Assistant under e-Court Project of the Supreme
Court of India and regular technical appointees of the High Court
and District Court with essential qualification prescribed in
these Rules.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4