
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Hyderabad District Officers (Change of Designation and Construction of References) Act...
The Hyderabad District Officers (Change of Designation and
Construction of References) Act, 1950
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/135541363/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
1
]
State of Maharashtra - Act
The Hyderabad District Officers (Change of Designation and Construction of References) Act, 1950
MAHARASHTRA
India
The Hyderabad District Officers (Change of Designation and Construction of References) Act, 1950
Act 35 of 1950
Published on 23 November 1950
Commenced on 23 November 1950
[This is the version of this document from 23 November 1950.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Hyderabad District Officers (Change of Designation and Construction of References) Act, 1950
Hyderabad Act
No. 35 of 1950
Published in the Extraordinary, Gazette No. 68, dated the 23rd November, 1950.
An Act to provide for change of designation of and construction of references to certain District Officers.
Preamble. - Whereas it is expedient to provide for the change of designation of, and construction of references to certain
District Officers;
It is hereby enacted as follows:-
1.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Hyderabad District Officers (Change of Designation and Construction of References) Act...
Short title, extent and commencement.
(1)
This Act may be called the Hyderabad District Officers (Change of Designation and Construction of References) Act,
1950.
(2)
It shall extend to the whole of the [Hyderabad area of the State of Maharashtra]
[Substituted by A. O., 1956 and further amended by A. O., 1960.]
.
(3)
It shall be deemed to have come into force on the fist November, 1950.
2.
Change of designation of certain District Officers.
- The designation of officers serving the Government of Hyderabad immediately before the commencement of this Act
as a -
(a)
(i)
Civil Administrator,
(ii)
Deputy Civil Administrator,
(iii)
Assistant Civil Administrator,
(iv)
Taluqdar,
(v)
Additional Taluqdar, and
(vi)
Second Taluqdar -
shall be respectively altered to that of a -3
(b)
[(i) Collector,
[Substituted by Act No. XV of 1955, published in Gazette Extraordinary No. 134, dated 28.10.1955.Substituted by Act
No. XV of 1955, published in Gazette Extraordinary No. 134, dated 28.10.1955.]
(ii)
Deputy Collector or Assistant Collector,
(iii)
Tahsildar,
(iv)
Collector,
(v)
Additional Collector,
(vi)
Deputy Collector or Assistant Collector :]
Provided that -
(a)
where for the same area there is a Civil Administrator and a Taluqdar, the Taluqdar shall be designated as Additional
Collector;
(b)
[ where for the same area there is a Deputy Civil Administrator and a Second Taluqdar, the Second Taluqdar, shall be
designated as Additional Deputy Collector or Additional Assistant Collector;]
[Substituted by Act No. XV of 1955, published in Gazette Extraordinary No. 134. dated 28.10.1955.]
(c)
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Hyderabad District Officers (Change of Designation and Construction of References) Act...
where for the same area there is an Assistant Civil Administrator and a Tahsildar, the Tahsildars shall be designated as
Additional Tahsildar.
3.
Constitution of references in laws, regulations etc., to Civil Administrator, Deputy Civil Administrator, etc.
(1)
All Laws, Regulations, Notifications, Orders, Bye-laws and instruments, which immediately before the commencement of
this Act were in force in the Hyderabad State, shall be construed as if references therein to the designations mentioned
in sub-clauses (i) to (vi) of clause 2, were respectively references to the designations specified in sub-clauses (i) to (vi)
of clause (b) thereof.
(2)
In order that there may not be more than one officer as Collector, Deputy Collector or Tahsildar for the same area, the
Government or other competent authority may, notwithstanding the provisions of sub-section (1), appoint an officer as
Additional Collector, Additional Deputy Collector and Additional Tahsildar instead of as Collector, Deputy Collector and
Tahsildar respectively.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3