
----- PAGE 1 -----
Maharashtra Highways Act, 1955
Maharashtra Highways Act, 1955
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/50531724/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
67
]
State of Maharashtra - Act
Maharashtra Highways Act, 1955
MAHARASHTRA
India
Maharashtra Highways Act, 1955
Act 55 of 1955
Published on 22 December 1955
Commenced on 22 December 1955
[This is the version of this document from 22 December 1955.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Maharashtra Highways Act, 1955
Act
No. 55 of 1955
MH99
[22nd December, 1955]
For Statement of Objects and Reasons, see Bombay Government Gazette, 1954, Part V, page 330.,
The Bombay Highways Act, 1955, and the rules made thereunder as in force in the Bombay area of the State of
Maharashtra, are hereby extended to the rest of that State (see section 2 of Maharashtra 42 of 1965).
An Act to provide for the restriction of ribbon development along highways, for the prevention and removal of
encroachment thereon, for the construction, maintenance and development of highways, for the levy of betterment
charges and for certain other matters.
Page 1/42
----- PAGE 2 -----
Maharashtra Highways Act, 1955
Whereas it is expedient to provide for the restriction of ribbon development along highways, for the prevention and
removal of encroachment thereon, for the construction, maintenance and development of highways, for the levy of
betterment charges and for certain other matters; It is hereby enacted in the Sixth Year of the Republic of India as
follows:-
Chapter I
Preliminary
1.
Short title, extent and commencement.
(1)
This Act may be called [the Maharashtra Highways Act]
[This Short title was substituted for the Short title 'the Bombay Highways Act, 1955' by Maharashtra 24 of 2012,
Schedule entry No. 58 (w.r.e.f. 1.5.1960).]
.
(2)
[ It extends to the whole of the State of Maharashtra.]
[Sub-section (2) was substituted for the original by Maharashtra 42 of 1965, Section 3(a).]
(3)
[This section shall be in force in the whole State.]
[These words were substituted for the words 'This section shall come Into force at once' by Maharashtra 42 of 1965,
Section 30).]
The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, direct that all or any of the remaining provisions of this
Act shall come into force in such area and on such date as may be specified in the notification:
Provided that the State Government may, by notification issued in like manner, exclude any road or way or class of
roads or ways situate in such area from the operation of all or any of the provisions of this Act.
2.
Definitions.
- In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context,-
(a)
"animal" means any domestic or captive animal;
(b)
"building" includes any erection of whatsoever material and in whatsoever manner constructed (including a farm building
for agricultural purposes) and also includes plinths, doorsteps, walls (including compound walls and fences) and the like;
(c)
"building line" means a line on either side of any highway or part of a highway fixed in respect of such highway or part by
a notification under sub-section (1) of section 7;
(d)
"cantonment" means a cantonment established under the Cantonments Act, 1924;
(e)
"control line" means a line on either side of a highway or part of a highway beyond the building line fixed in respect of
such highway or part by a notification under sub-section (1) of section 7;
(f)
"encroachment" means any unauthorized occupation of any highway or part thereof, and includes an unauthorised-
(i)
erection of a building or any other structure, balconies, porches, projections on or over or overhanging the highway;
(ii)
occupation of a highway beyond the prescribed period, if any, for stacking building materials or goods of any other
description, for exhibiting articles for sale, for erecting poles, awnings, tents, pandals, hoardings and other similar
erections or for parking vehicles or stabling animals or for any other purpose; and
(iii)
excavations or dumps of any sort made or extended on any highway or underneath such highway;
(g)
Page 2/42
----- PAGE 3 -----
Maharashtra Highways Act, 1955
"to erect" with its grammatical variations in relation to a building means to construct, reconstruct, extend or alter
structurally a building;
(h)
"excavation" in relation to any piece of land does not include any workings which do not pierce the surface of that piece
of land; but includes wells and tanks;
(i)
"highway" means any [road, way or land]
[These words were substituted for the words 'road or way over which the public have a right of way or are granted
access and' by Maharashtra 42 of 1965, Section 4.]
which is declared to be a highway under section 3. The expression includes-
(i)
any land. acquired or demarcated with a view to construct a highway along it;
(ii)
the slopes, berms, borrow-pits, foot-paths, pavements and side, catch and boundary drains attached to such road or
way;
(iii)
all bridges, culverts, causeways, carriageways and other structures built on or across such road or way; and
(iv)
the trees, fences, posts, boundary, furlong and mile stones, and other highway accessories and materials and material
stacked on the road or way
(j)
"Highway Authority" means the authority appointed as such or to which the functions of such authority are entrusted
under section 4;
(k)
"highway boundaries" means the boundaries of a highway fixed in respect of such highway by a notification under
sub-section (1) of section 7;
(l)
"means of access" includes any means of access, whether private or public, for vehicles or for foot passengers and
includes any street;
(m)
"middle of highway" means the point half-way between the highway boundaries;
(n)
"occupier" includes,-
(a)
any person who for the time being is paying or is liable to pay to the owner rent or any portion of the rent of the premises
in respect of which such rent is paid or is payable;
(b)
an owner living in or otherwise using his premises;
(c)
a rent-free tenant;
(d)
a licensee in occupation of any premises; and
(e)
any person who is liable to pay to the owner damages for the use and occupation of any premises;
(o)
"owner" means,-
(a)
when used with reference to any premises, the person who receives the rent of the said premises or who would be
entitled to receive the rent thereof if the premises were let and includes,-
(i)
an agent or trustee who receives such rent on account of the owner;
Page 3/42
----- PAGE 4 -----
Maharashtra Highways Act, 1955
(ii)
an agent or trustee who receives the rent of, or is entrusted with, or concerned for, any premises devoted to religious or
charitable purposes,
(iii)
a receiver, sequestrator or manager appointed by any court of competent Jurisdiction; and a mortgagee-in-possession;
(b)
when used with reference to an institution or a body corporate, the manager of such institution or body corporate;
[(o-1) "person entitled" means the person who is entitled to receive the amount of compensation as per the applicable
law]
[Inserted by Maharashtra Act No. 45 of 2018]
(p)
"prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this Act;
(q)
"railway administration" has the same meaning as in the Indian Railways Act, 1890;
(r)
"vehicle" includes a barrow, sledge, plough, drag and a wheeled conveyance of any description capable of being used
on a highway;
(s)
[ the expressions "affected family" and "persons interested" used in this Act shall have the same meaning as the said
expressions have in the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and
Resettlement Act, 2013 (30 of 2013).]
[Substituted by Maharashtra Act No. 45 of 2018]
Chapter II
Declaration of Highways, Highway Authorities and their Powers and Functions
3.
Declaration of roads, ways or lands as highways.
- The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, declare any road, way or land to be a highway and
classify it as-
(i)
a State highway (Special),
(ii)
a State highway,
(iii)
a major district road,
(iv)
other district road, or
(v)
a village road.
4.
Appointment of Highway Authorities.
- The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint for the purpose of this Act or any of its
provisions any person or any authority to be a Highway Authority for all the highways [in the State]
[These words were substituted for the words 'in the Bombay area of the State of Maharashtra' by Maharashtra 42 of
1965, Section 5.]
or, in parts [thereof]
[This word was substituted for the words 'of the State' by the Bombay Adaptation of Laws (State and Concurrent
Subjects) Order, 1956.]
or for any particular highway or highways [therein]
[This word was substituted for the words 'in the Bombay area of the State of Maharashtra' by Maharashtra 42 of 1965,
Section 5.]
, specified in the notification.
Page 4/42
----- PAGE 5 -----
Maharashtra Highways Act, 1955
5.
Duties of Highway Authorities.
- Subject to such conditions as may be specified in the notification appointing a Highway Authority and subject to the
general or special orders of the State Government, a Highway Authority shall exercise powers and discharge duties in
accordance with the provisions of this Act for the restriction of ribbon development along highways, for the prevention
and removal of encroachments and for all matters necessary and incidental to any or all of the above subjects. Also
subject to the approval of the State Government and to such general or special orders which the State Government may
make in this behalf, it shall be lawful to a highway Authority to undertake the construction, maintenance, development or
improvement of highways.
6.
Officers and servants of Highway Authority.
- For the purpose of enabling a Highway Authority to exercise the powers conferred and to discharge the duties imposed
upon it by or under the provisions of this Act, the State Government may appoint such officers and servants as it deems
necessary to work under such Authority.
Chapter III
Restriction of Ribbon Development
7.
Power to fix boundary, building and control lines of highways.
- [(1) In any area in which the provisions of this Act have been brought into force, and
(i)
where either any road, way or land has been declared to be a highway under section 3, or the construction or
development of a highway is undertaken or proposed to be undertaken, and
(ii)
the State Government considers it necessary to fix, as respects such highway, the highway boundary, the building line
or control line, the State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, fix, as respects such highway, the
highway boundary, the building line and the control line:
Provided that, having regard to the situation or the requirements of a highway or the condition of the local area through
which a highway passes, it shall be lawful for the State Government to fix different building or control lines in respect of
any highway, or portions thereof.]
[Sub-section (1) was substituted for the original by Maharashtra 42 of 1965, Section 6(1).]
(2)
Not less than sixty days before issuing a notification under subsection (1) the State Government shall cause to be
published in the Official Gazette and in the prescribed manner in the village and at the headquarters of the [taluka, tahsil
or mahal]
[These words were substituted for the words 'taluka or mahal' by Maharashtra 42 of 1965, Section 6(2).]
of the district in which the highway is situate a notification stating that it proposes to issue a notification in terms of
sub-section (1), and specifying therein all the lands situated between the highway boundary and the control line
proposed to be fixed under such notification and in the case of new works, also lands benefiting by the construction or
development of the highway, as the case may be, together with a notice requiring all persons affected by such
notification, who wish to make any objections or suggestions with respect to the issue of such a notification, to submit
their objections or suggestions in writing to the Highway Authority or appear before such authority, within two months of
the publication of the notification in the Official Gazette or within one month from the date of the publication of the
notification in the village, whichever period expires later.
(3)
The Highway Authority shall, after all such objections or suggestions have been considered or heard, as the case may
be, and after such further inquiry, if any, as it thinks necessary, forward to the State Government a copy of the record of
its proceedings held by it together with a report setting forth its recommendations on the objections or suggestions.
(4)
If, before the expiration of the time allowed by sub-section (2) for the filing or hearing of objections or suggestions, no
objections or suggestion has been made, the State Government shall proceeded at once to issue the notification under
subsection (1). If any such objection or suggestions has been made, the State Government shall consider the record
Page 5/42
----- PAGE 6 -----
Maharashtra Highways Act, 1955
and the report referred to in sub-section (3) and may either
(a)
abandon the proposal to issue the notification under sub-section (1), or
(b)
issue the notification under sub-section (1) with such modifications, if any as it thinks fit.
(5)
In considering the objections or suggestions, the decision of the State Government on the question of issuing the
notification under sub-section (1) shall be final and conclusive.
8.
Map to be prepared and maintained.
- Within two months from the date of publication of the notification under subsection (1) of section 7 fixing the highway
boundary, building line and control line with respect to any highway, the Highway Authority shall cause a map to be
made of the area through which such highway passes and shall cause to be marked thereon the highway boundaries
and building and control lines and any other particulars necessary for the purposes of this Act and within one month
from the date of making any alteration or addition thereto cause the said map to be corrected and such map with the
date indicated thereon of the last time when the same shall have been so corrected shall be kept in the office of the
Highway Authority. Such map, which shall bear the seal of the Highway Authority, shall be open to inspection. Copies of
such map shall also be kept for inspection at such other places as may be prescribed.
9.
Restrictions on buildings between highway boundary and building line, and between building and control lines.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in any law, custom, agreement or instrument for the time being in force, on or after
the appointed day the following restrictions shall, subject to the provisions of this Act, be in force that is to say,-
no person shall, without the previous permission in writing of the Highway Authority,-
(a)
upon any land lying between the highway boundary and the building line proposed to be fixed under sub-section (2), or
fixed under sub-section (1), of section 7, as the case may be, -
(i)
construct, form or lay out any means of access to, or from, a highway, or
(ii)
erect any building, or
(iii)
materially alter any existing building, or
(iv)
make or extend any excavation, or
(v)
construct, form or lay out any works; or
(b)
upon any land lying between the building line and the control line proposed to be fixed under sub-section (2), or fixed
under sub-section (1), of section 7, as the case may be,-
(i)
construct, form or lay out any means of access to, or from, a highway, or
(ii)
erect any building, or
(iii)
materially alter any existing building;
(c)
use any building or alter the use of any building already in a manner which in the opinion of the Highway Authority will, in
any manner whatsoever, infringe any of the provisions of this Act or interfere with the use of a highway adjoining the
land on which such building is erected.
(2)
Page 6/42
----- PAGE 7 -----
Maharashtra Highways Act, 1955
Every person desiring to obtain such permission under sub-section (1) shall make an application in writing to the
Highway Authority in such form and containing such information as may be prescribed in respect of the building,
alteration, excavation, works or means of access, as the case may be; to which the application relates.
(3)
On receipt of such application; the Highway Authority, after making such enquiries as it may consider necessary, shall,
by order in writing, either-
(a)
grant the permission, subject to such conditions, if any, as may be specified in the order,
(b)
or refuse to grant such permission: Provided that-
(i)
permission under clause (a) of sub-section (1) to the making if any excavation or construction, formation or laying out of
works in land for the purpose of repairing, renewing, enlarging or maintaining any underground sewer, drain, electric
line, pipe, duct or other apparatus shall not be withheld nor be made subject to any conditions save such as may be
necessary for securing that the sewer, drain, electric line, pipe, duct or other apparatus shall be laid in such manner and
at such levels that the construction, maintenance, development or improvement of a road thereover will not be
prevented or prejudicially affected thereby;
(ii)
permission under clause (b) of sub-section (1) to the erection or alteration of a building or laying out any means of
access to a highway which conforms to the requirements of public health, and welfare and of safety and convenience of
traffic on the adjoining road shall neither be withheld not made subject to unreasonable conditions:
Provided that in the case of means of access required for agricultural purposes such permission shall neither be
withheld nor be made subject to any conditions save such as may be necessary for securing that the means of access
shall be used for agricultural purposes only;
(iii)
permission under clause (b) of sub-section (1) to the re-erection or alteration of a building which was in existence before
the appointed day shall neither be withheld not made subject to restrictions unless such re-erection or alteration involves
any material alteration to the outside appearance of the building.
(4)
When the Highway Authority refuses permission, the reasons therefore shall be recorded and communicated to the
applicant:
Provided that nothing herein contained shall debar a person from making a fresh application after omitting therefrom the
objectionable features communicated to him as aforesaid on account of which such permission was refused.
(5)
If at the expiration of a period of three months after an application for such permission specifying the name and address
of the application has been made to the Highway Authority, or such further period not exceeding three months as may
have been notified by the Highway Authority has elapsed and- no decision has been notified, in writing, posted a
delivered to the applicant, at the address, then (except as may otherwise be agreed in writing between the Highway
Authority and the applicant.) permission shall be deemed to have been given without the imposition by the Highway
Authority of any conditions.
(6)
The Highway Authority shall maintain a register with sufficient particulars of all permissions given or refused by it under
this section and the register shall be available for inspection free of charge by all persons interested and such persons
shall be entitled to take extracts therefrom.
Explanation.- For the purpose of this section, the "appointed day" shall, with reference to any highway boundary,
building line or control line, mean-
(1)
the day on which a notification is published in the Official Gazette under sub-section (2) of section 7 proposing to fix
such highway boundary, building line or control line, and
(2)
if any modification is made in such highway boundary, building line or control line, the day on which the notification is
Page 7/42
----- PAGE 8 -----
Maharashtra Highways Act, 1955
published under sub-section (1) of section 7 fixing such highway boundary, building line or control line.
10.
Appeal.
(1)
If any applicant is aggrieved by any decision of the Highway Authority under section 9, withholding permission, or
imposing any condition, he may appeal to the State Government within 30 days from the date on which such decision
was communicated to him.
(2)
The State Government may, after giving an opportunity to the applicant to be heard, make such order as it thinks fit
upon the appeal and the decision of the State Government shall be final.
11.
Exemptions for works in progress, etc.
(1)
No restrictions in force under section 9 shall apply to the erection or making of a building or excavation or to the
construction, formation or laying out, of any means of access or works begun before the appointed day referred to in
section 9.
(2)
No restrictions in force under section 9, except restrictions as to the construction, formation or laying out, or means of
access, shall apply to any land forming part of a burial or cremation ground or other place for the disposal of the dead
being land which has, before passing of this Act, been used for such purpose.
(3)
No restrictions in force under section 9 shall apply to any excavation or works necessary in connection with any drains,
ditches or other drainage works for agricultural purposes or to any work necessary for the repair, renewal enlargement
or maintenance of any sewer, drain, electric line, pipe, duct, or other apparatus, constructed in or upon the land before
the date on which the restrictions came into force or with the consent of the Highway Authority on or after that date.
12.
Setting back of buildings to building line or control line.
- Whenever any building or any part thereof erected before the appointed day referred to in section 9 lies between the
building line and the middle of the highway the Highway Authority may, whenever any such building or part has either
entirely or in greater part been taken down, burnt down or fallen down by notice require such building or part when
re-erected to be set back to the building line or control line.
13.
Regulation or diversion of right of access to highway.
(1)
The Highway Authority may, if it is considered essential in the interests of safety or convenience of traffic, regulate or
divert any existing right of access to a highway across land lying between the control line and the highway boundary:
Provided that the existing right of access shall not be diverted until alternative access has been given.
(2)
Where the existing right of access is diverted, the point at which alternative access is given to the highway shall not be
unreasonably distant from the existing point of access.
(3)
The Highway Authority shall, by notification in the Official Gazette, publish the date on which the existing right of access
has been diverted and alternative access has been given.
14.
Powers of Highways Authority and officers and servants appointed under section 6 in respect of surveys.
- For the purpose of carrying out any of the provisions of this Act, the Highway Authority and the officers and servants
appointed under section 6 may-
(a)
enter upon, survey and take measurements and levels of any land;
(b)
mark such levels, dig or bore into the subsoil of any land;
Page 8/42
----- PAGE 9 -----
Maharashtra Highways Act, 1955
(c)
demarcate the boundaries of the highway by planting stones or other suitable marks in different colours of a durable
nature at intervals all along the highway in such a manner that the imaginary line joining such stones or marks shows
the road boundary correctly;
(d)
where there are bends or kinks on the road boundary, locate the stones or marks in different colours so as to give the
correct configuration of the boundary if they are joined by straight tines;
(e)
give consecutive numbers to such boundary stones or marks and maintain them on the ground as if they constituted part
of the highway;
(f)
lay out the building and control lines by placing marks in different colours and cutting trenches;
(g)
if the survey cannot otherwise be made, or measurements or levels taken or boundaries marked and lines laid out, cut
down and clear away any standing crop, tree, fence or jungle or any part thereof;
(h)
do all other acts necessary in that behalf:
Provided that the Highway Authority shall not, except with the consent of the occupier thereof, enter or permit any of the
officers or servants to enter any premises without previously giving such occupier at least forty-eight hours' notice in
writing of its intention to do so.
15.
[ Power to acquire land, etc.
[Sections 15 to 19E were substituted for sections 15 to 19 by Maharashtra 37 of 1999, Section 2, (w.e.f. 1.1.2000).]
(1)
Any land required by the Highway Authority for discharging in functions under this Act shall be deemed to be the land
needed for a public purpose and such land may, on a request being received from the Authority, be acquired by the
State Government for the said Authority under the provisions of this Act.
(2)
On the Highway Authority approaching the State Government as provided under sub-section (1) with such requisition
and the State Government being satisfied that for a public purpose any land is required for the building, maintenance,
management or operation of a highway or part thereof, it may, by notification in the Official Gazette, declare its intention
to acquire such land:
Provided that, if the land intended to be acquired is situated in the Scheduled Area, before declaring its intention to
acquire such land, the State Government or the officer authorised in this behalf shall consult, in such manner as may be
laid down by the State Government by a general or special order issued in this behalf,-
(i)
the Gram Sabha or Panchayat concerned, if the land is falling within the limits of a village;
(ii)
the Panchayat Samiti concerned, if the land is falling within the limits of more than one villages in a Block;
(iii)
the Zilla Parishad concerned, if the land is falling within the limits of more than one Blocks, in a District.
Explanation.- For the purposes of this sub-section,-
(i)
the expressions "Gram Sabha" and "Scheduled Area" shall have the meaning respectively assigned to them in the
Bombay Village Panchayats Act, 1958;
(ii)
the expressions "Panchayat Samiti" and "Zilla Parishad" shall have the meaning respectively assigned to them in the
Maharashtra Zilla Parishads and Panchayat Samitis Act, 1961.
(3)
Every notification issued under sub-section (2), shall give a brief description of the land.
(4)
Page 9/42
----- PAGE 10 -----
Maharashtra Highways Act, 1955
Any officer authorised by the State Government, by notification in the Official Gazette, for acquisition of land for the
purposes of this Act (hereinafter called as "the Land Acquisition Officer"), shall cause the substance of the notification to
be published in two local newspapers, one of which will be in a vernacular language.
16.
Power to enter or survey, etc.
- On the issue of the notification under sub-section (2) of section 15, it shall be lawful for the Land Acquisition Officer or
any person authorized by the State Government in this behalf, to-
(a)
make any inspection, survey, measurement, valuation or enquiry;
(b)
take levels;
(c)
dig or bore into sub-soil;
(d)
set out boundaries and intended lines of work;
(e)
mark such levels, boundaries and lines by placing marks and cutting trenches; or
(f)
do such other acts or things as may be prescribed.
17.
Hearing of objections.
(1)
Any person interested in the land other than the persons whose objections or suggestions have already been
considered or heard by the Highway Authority in response to the notification issued by the Highway Authority under
section 7 may, within twenty-one days from the date of publication of the notification under sub-section (2) of section 15,
object to the use of the land for the purpose or purposes mentioned in that sub-section.
(2)
Every objection under sub-section (1) shall be made to the land Acquisition Officer in writing and shall set out the
grounds thereof and the Land Acquisition Officer shall give the objector an opportunity of being heard, either in person
or, by a legal practitioner, and may, after hearing all such objections and after making such further enquiry, if any, as the
Land Acquisition Officer thinks necessary by order, either allow or disallow the objections.
Explanation.- For the purposes of this sub-section, "legal Practitioner" has the same meaning as in clause (i) of
sub-section (1) of section 2 of the Advocates Act, 1961.
(3)
Any order made by the Land Acquisition Officer under sub-section (2) shall be final.
18.
Declaration of acquisition.
(1)
Where no objection under sub-section (1) of section 17 has been made to the Land Acquisition Officer within the period
specified therein or where the Land Acquisition Officer has disallowed the objection under sub-section (2) of that section,
the Land Acquisition Officer shall, as soon as may be, submit a report accordingly to the State Government and on
receipt of such report, the State Government shall declare, by notification in the Official Gazette, that the land should be
acquired for the purpose of purposes mentioned in sub-section (2) of section 15.
(2)
On the publication of such declaration under sub-section (1), the land shall vest absolutely in the State Government free
from all encumbrances.
(3)
Where in respect of any land, a notification has been published under subsection (2) of section 15 for its acquisition but
no declaration under sub-section (1) has been published within a period of one year from the date of publication of that
notification, the said notification shall cease to have any effect:
Provided that, in computing the said period of one year, the period of periods during which any action or proceedings to
Page 10/42
----- PAGE 11 -----
Maharashtra Highways Act, 1955
be taken in pursuance of the notification issued under sub-section (2) of section 15 is stayed by an order of a court shall
be excluded.
(4)
A declaration made by the State Government under sub-section (1), shall not be called in question in any court or any
other authority.
19.
Powers to take possession.
(1)
Where any and has been vested in the State Government under subsection (2) of section 18, and the amount
determined by the Land Acquisition Officer under section 19B with respect to such land has been deposited under
sub-section (1) of section 19C with the land Acquisition officer by the State Government, the Land Acquisition Officer
may by notice in writing direct the owner as well as any other person who may be in possession of such land to
surrender or deliver possession thereof to the Land Acquisition Officer or any person duly authorised by him in this
behalf within sixty days of the service of the notice.
(2)
If any person refuses or fails to comply with any direction made under subsection (1), the Land Acquisition Officer shall
apply-
(a)
in case of the land situated in any area falling within the metropolitan area to the Commissioner of Police;
(b)
in case of the land situated in any area other than the area referred to in clause (a), to the Collector of a District, and
such Commissioner or Collector, as the case may be, shall enforce the surrender of the land, to the Land Acquisition
Officer or to the person duly authorized by him.
19A.
Right to enter into land where land vested in State Government.
- Where the land has been vested in the State Government under section 18, it shall be lawful for the [Land Acquisition
Officer or the Highway Authority or any person authorized by them]
[Substituted 'Land Acquisition Officer or any person authorised by him' by Maharashtra Act No. 45 of 2018]
in this behalf, to enter and do other act necessary upon the land for carrying out the building, maintenance, management
or operation of a highway or a part thereof, or any other work connected therewith.
19B.
Determination of amount payable as compensation.
(1)
Where any land is acquired by the State Government under this chapter there shall be paid an amount of compensation
which shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(2)
Where the amount of compensation has been determined by agreement between the State Government and the person
to be compensated, it shall be determined in accordance with such agreement.
(3)
Where no such agreement can be reached, the State Government shall refer the case to the Land Acquisition Officer for
determination of the amount of compensation to be paid for such acquisition and also the person or persons to whom
such compensation shall be paid:
Provided that, no compensation exceeding such amount as the State Government may by general order specify, shall
be determined by the Land Acquisition Officer without the previous approval of the State Government or such Officer as
the State Government may appoint in this behalf.
[Provided further that, the State Government while issuing the general order under the preceding proviso shall adhere to
the provisions of the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement
Act, 2013, (30 of 2013) relating to the determination of amount of compensation in accordance with the First Schedule
and rehabilitation and resettlement specified in the Second and Third Schedules, being beneficial to the affected
families.]
[Added by Maharashtra Act No. 45 of 2018]
Page 11/42
----- PAGE 12 -----
Maharashtra Highways Act, 1955
(4)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (3), if, after the case is referred to the Land Acquisition Officer under
the said sub-section (3) but before he finally determined the amount of compensation, such amount is determined by
agreement between the State Government and the person to be compensated, the compensation shall be determined
by the Land Acquisition Officer in accordance with such agreement.
(5)
Where the right of user or any right in the nature of an easement on any land is acquired under this Act, there shall be
paid, to the owner and any other person whose right of enjoyment in that land has been affected in any manner
whatsoever by reason of such acquisition, an amount calculated at ten per cent. of the amount determined under
sub-section (2) or sub-section (3), as the case may be, for that land.
(6)
Before proceeding to determine the amount under sub-section (3) or sub-section (5), the Land Acquisition Officer shall
give a public notice published in two local newspapers, one of which shall be in a vernacular language, inviting claims
from all persons interested in the land to be acquired.
(7)
Such notice shall state the particulars of the land and shall require all persons interested in such land to appear in
person or by an agent or by a legal practitioner referred to in sub-section (2) of section 17 before the Land Acquisition
officer, at a time and place, and to state the nature of their respective interest in such land.
(8)
If the amount determined by the Land Acquisition Officer under subsection (3) or sub-section (5) is not acceptable to
either of the parties, the amount shall, on an application by either of the parties, be determined by the arbitrator to be
appointed by the State Government.
(9)
Subject to the provisions of this Act, the provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1.996 shall apply to every
arbitration under this Act.
(10)
The Land Acquisition Officer or the arbitrator while determining the amount under sub-section (3) or sub-section (8), as
the case may be, shall take into consideration,-
(a)
the market value of the land on the date of publication of the notification under section 15;
(b)
the damage, if any, sustained by the person interested at the time of taking possession of the land, by reason of the
severing of such land from other land;
(c)
the damage, if any, sustained by the person interested at the time of taking possession of the land, by reason of the
acquisition injuriously affecting his other immovable property in any manner, or his earnings;
(d)
if, in consequences of the acquisition of the land, the person interested is compelled to change his residence or place of
business, the reasonable expenses, if any, incidental to such change.
[Provided that, the Land Acquisition Officer or the Arbitrator shall consider the general order of the State Government
issued under the first proviso to sub-section (3) relating to the determination of amount of compensation in accordance
with the first Schedule and rehabilitation and resettlement specified in the Second and Third Schedules under the Right
to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013 (30 of 2013).]
[Added by Maharashtra Act No. 45 of 2018]
19C.
Deposit and payment of amount.
(1)
The amount determined under section 19B shall be deposited by the State Government, in the prescribed manner, with
the Land Acquisition Officer before taking possession of the land.
(2)
As soon as may be after the amount has been deposited under subsection (1), the Land Acquisition Officer shall on
Page 12/42
----- PAGE 13 -----
Maharashtra Highways Act, 1955
behalf of the State Government pay the amount to the person or persons entitled thereto.
(3)
Where several persons claim to be interested in the amount deposited under sub-section (1), the Land Acquisition
Officer shall determine the persons who in his opinion are entitled to receive the amount payable to each of them.
(4)
If any dispute arises as to the apportionment of the amount or any part thereof or to any person to whom the same or
any part thereof is payable, the Land Acquisition Officer shall refer the dispute to the decision of the principal civil court
of original jurisdiction within the limits of whose jurisdiction the land is situated.
(5)
Where the amount determined under sub-section (8) of section 19B by the arbitrator is in excess of the amount
determined by the Land Acquisition Officer, the arbitrator may award interest at nine per cent. per annum on such
excess amount from the date of taking possession under section 19 till the date of the actual deposit thereof.
(6)
Where the amount determined by the arbitrator is in excess of the amount determined by the Land Acquisition Officer,
the excess amount together with an interest, if any, awarded under sub-section (5), shall be deposited by the State
Government in the prescribed manner, with land Acquisition Officer and the provisions of subsections (2) to (4) shall
apply to such deposit.
19D.
Land Acquisition Officer to have certain powers of civil court.
- The Land Acquisition Officer shall have, for the purposes of this Act, all the powers of a civil court while trying a suit
under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, in respect of the following matters, namely:-
(a)
summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person and examining him on oath;
(b)
requiring the discovery and production of any document;
(c)
reception of evidence on affidavits;
(d)
requisitioning any public record from any court or office;
(e)
issuing commission for examination of witnesses.
19E.
[
[Omitted by Maharashtra Act No. 45 of 2018]
***]
19E. Land Acquisition Act, 1894 not to apply.- Nothing in the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 shall apply to an acquisition
under this Act.]
Chapter IV
Prevention of Unauthorized Occupation of, and Encroachment on, a Highway and Removal of Encroachment
20.
Lands forming part of highway deemed to be Government property.
- All lands forming part of a highway which do not already vest in the State Government shall, for the purpose of this
Chapter, be deemed to be the property of the State Government.
21.
Prevention of unauthorized occupation of highway.
(1)
No person shall occupy or encroach on any highway within the highway boundaries without obtaining the previous
permission in writing of the Highway Authority or an Officer authorized in this behalf by the Highway Authority.
(2)
The Highway Authority or an officer authorized by the Highway Authority in this behalf may, with due regard to the safety
and convenience of traffic and subject to such conditions, as may be imposed and such rules as many be prescribed by
Page 13/42
----- PAGE 14 -----
Maharashtra Highways Act, 1955
the State Government, and on payment of such rent or other charges as may be prescribed under such, permit any
person,-
(i)
to place a temporary encroachment on any highway in front of any building owned by him or make a temporary structure
overhanging the highway, or
(ii)
to put up a temporary awning or tent, pandal or other similar erection or a temporary stall or scaffolding on any highway,
or
(iii)
to deposit or cause to be deposited building material, goods for sale or other articles on any highway, or
(iv)
to make temporary excavation for carrying out any repairs or improvements to adjoining building:
Provided that no such permission shall be deemed to valid beyond a period of one year unless expressly renewed by
the Highway Authority or the authorized officer.
(3)
The permission so granted shall clearly specify the date up to which the person is authorised to occupy the highway, the
purposes for which occupation is authorized and the exact portion of the highway permitted to be occupied, and shall
also be accompanied by a plan or sketch of that portion of the highway, if necessary.
(4)
The person in whose favour such a permission has been given shall produce the permit for inspection whenever called
upon to do so by the Highway Authority or any officer by a general or special order empowered in that behalf and shall
at the end of the period specified in the permit release the land occupied by him after restoring it to the same state as
before the occupation by him.
(5)
The Highway Authority or the officer issuing the permission shall maintain a complete record of all such permission
issued, and shall also cause a check-up to be made in every case at the expiration of the period up to which occupation
has been authorized to ensure that the land has actually been vacated.
22.
Power to cancel permit.
(1)
The Highway Authority may cancel any permission granted under section 21-
(a)
if any rent or charge is not duly paid,
(b)
if the purpose for which the permission was given has created to exist,
(c)
in the event of any breach by the holder of such permission or of any terms or conditions of such permission.
(d)
if the land on which such encroachment has been made is required for any public purpose or such encroachment is
causing impediment or danger to traffic.
(2)
Where the permission has been cancelled under clause (b) or (d) of sub-suction (1), any rent or charge paid in advance
shall be refunded to the holder of such permission less the amount, if any, due to the State Government.
23.
Prevention of encroachment.
(1)
When as a result of check of highway boundaries made or otherwise, it transpires that an encroachment has taken place
on a highway the Highway Authority or the officer authorised under sub-section (1)- of section 21 shall serve a notice on
the person responsible for the encroachment or his representative requiring him to remove such encroachment and
restore the land to its original conditions before the encroachment within the period specified in the notice.
(2)
Page 14/42
----- PAGE 15 -----
Maharashtra Highways Act, 1955
The notice shall specify the land encroached upon and the time-limit within which such encroachment shall be removed
and shall also state that failure to comply within the specified period shall render the person liable to prosecution and
also to summary eviction.
(3)
If the encroachment is not removed within the time-limit specified in the notice and no valid cause is shown for
non-compliance, the Highway Authority or the authorized officer referred to in sub-section(1) may prosecute such person
before the appropriate Magistrate for his having made or caused the encroachment and for his failure to remove it within
the specified time.
(4)
Where the encroachment is made for the purpose of exposing articles for sale, opening temporary booths for vending or
other like purpose of a trival nature the Highway Authority or the authorised officer referred to in sub-section (1) may,
with the help of the police, if necessary,have such encroachment summarily removed without issuing a notice as
required by sub-section (1), or in lieu of removal of the encroachment, may give the person responsible for the
encroachment option executing a lease in favour or the Highway Authority on payment of rent for the area encroached
upon.
(5)
When the encroachment is of a temporary nature and can easily be removed but is not as can be described as trivial
within the meaning sub-section (4), the Highway Authority or the authorised officer referred to in sub-section (1) may in
addition to or in lieu of prosecuting the person responsible for the encroachment under subsection (3) have the
encroachment summarily removed with the assistance of the police, if necessary.
(6)
Where the encroachment is of such a nature that its immediate removal is considered essential in the interests of safety
of traffic on the highway or the safety of any structure forming part of the highway, the Highway Authority or the
authorized officer referred to in sub-section (1) may, in addition to prosecution of the person under sub-section (3),
either-
(i)
have such protective work, as may be feasible at a reasonable cost, carried out so as to minimize the danger to traffic
on the highway, or
(ii)
have the encroachment removed with the help of the police, if necessary.
24.
Appeal against notice served under sub-section (1) of section 23.
- Where the person on whom notice to remove an encroachment has been served under sub-section (1) of section 23
lays claim that the land in respect of which encroachment has been alleged is his property or that he has acquired a
right over it by virtue of adverse possession or otherwise he shall within the time-limit prescribed in the notice for the
removal of the encroachment, file an appeal before the Collector under intimation to the Highway Authority or the officer
authorized under subsection (1) of section 21, as the case may be. The Collector shall after due enquiry record his
decision in writing and communicate the same to the appellant and the Highway Authority or such officer. The Highway
Authority or such officer shall till then desist from taking further action in the matter.
25.
Recovery of cost of removal of encroachment.
(1)
Whenever the Highway Authority or the officer authorized under subsection (1) of section 21 has under the provisions of
section 23 removed any encroachment or carried out any protective work in respect of any encroachment, the
expenditure involved shall be recovered from the person responsible for the encroachment in the manner hereinafter
provided.
(2)
A bill, representing the expenditure incurred shall be served by the Highway Authority or the authorized officer referred
to in sub-section (1) on the person responsible for the encroachment or his representative with a direction to pay up the
amount within a specified period to the authority mentioned in the bill.
(3)
Page 15/42
----- PAGE 16 -----
Maharashtra Highways Act, 1955
The bill shall be accompanied by a certificate from the Highway Authority or the authorized officer referred to in
sub-section (1) to the effect that the amount of expenditure indicated in the bill represents the charges incurred and such
a certificate shall be conclusive proof that the charges had actually been incurred.
(4)
The materials, if any, recovered as a result of the removal of any encroachment shall be handed over to the person
responsible for the encroachment on payment of the amount of the bill by him but in the event of his failure to pay up the
amount within the specified period, the materials may be auctioned and after deducting the amount of the bill from the
proceeds, the balance, if any, shall be made over to such person.
(5)
If the proceeds of the auction sale do not cover the total amount billed for, the excess over the amount realised by the
sale of materials, or if there are no materials to dispose of and the billed amount has not been paid by the person
responsible for the encroachment within the specified period, the entire amount of the bill shall be recovered from such
person as an arrear of land revenue.
Chapter V
Compensation
26.
Doing minimum damage in certain cases and compensation.
- In the exercise of the powers under the following provisions by the Highway Authority or any officer or servant
appointed under section 6 or any other person authorised by or under this Act by the State Government, as little damage
as can be shall be done and compensation in the manner prescribed by or under this Act shall be paid to any person
who sustains damage in consequence of the exercise of such powers, namely:-
(a)
the imposition of restrictions under section 9;
(b)
the setting back of any building or part thereof under section 12;
(c)
the regulation or diversion of right of access to a highway under section 13;
(d)
the entry, survey, measurement and doing of any of the acts on any land under section 14;
[* * *]
[Clause (e) was deleted by Maharashtra 37 of 1999, Section 3.]
(f)
the closure of any highway or part thereof under section 52.
27.
Determination of amount of compensation by agreement.
- The amount of compensation payable under section 26, the persons to whom it is to be paid and the apportionment of
such amount among the persons interested therein shall be determined by agreement between the Highway Authority or
any officer authorised by the State Government and the persons or persons claiming interest therein.
28.
Determination of amount of compensation in default of agreement.
(1)
In default of any agreement under section 27, the Highway Authority or the officer authorised by the State Government
shall, subject to the provisions of this Act, after holding an enquiry, make an award determining-
(a)
[* *]
[Clause (a) was deleted by Maharashtra 37 of 1999, Section 4(a), (w.e.f. 1.1.2000).]
(b)
the amount of compensation to be paid under section 26,
(c)
the apportionment, if any, of such compensation among all persons known or believed to be entitled thereto:
[Provided that, no award allowing compensation exceeding such amount as the State Government may, by general
Page 16/42
----- PAGE 17 -----
Maharashtra Highways Act, 1955
order, specify shall be made without the previous approval of the State Government or such officer as the State
Government may appoint in this behalf.]
[This proviso was added by Maharashtra 42 of 1965, section 7.]
(2)
[* **]
[Sub-section (2) was deleted by Maharashtra 37 of 1999, Section 4(b).]
29.
No compensation if similar restrictions in force under any other law or if compensation already received.
- No compensation shall be awarded-
(i)
if and in so far as the land is subject to substantially similar restrictions in force under some other law which was in force
on the date on which the restrictions were imposed by this Act;
(ii)
if compensation in respect of the same restrictions imposed under this Act or substantially similar restrictions in force
under any other law has already been paid in respect of the land to the claimant or to any predecessor in interest of the
claimant.
30.
Compensation for refusal or permission to build not to exceed difference between its value when it was refused and
when it would have been granted.
- When permission to erect any building has been refused under section 9 or 10, the amount of compensation shall not
exceed the difference between the value of the land as determined by section [19B of this Act]
[This figure, letter and words were substituted for '23 or 24 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894' by Maharashtra 37 of
1999, Section 5, (w.e.f. 1.1.2000).]
[* * * * *]
[The words 'as amended by the Schedule to this Act' were deleted by Maharashtra 37 of 1999, Section 3.]
and the value which it would have had if the permission had been granted. In determining such value any restrictions to
which the land is subject under any ,other law for the time being in force in regard to the right of person claiming
compensation to erect a building on the land or otherwise to use, hold or dispose of the same shall be taken into
consideration.
31.
Compensation for diversion of access not to exceed cost of alternative access.
- Where the right of access to a highway has been destroyed as a result of the diversion or closure thereof and an
alternative access has been given, the amount of compensation shall in no case exceed the cost of laying a new means
of access from the property of the claimant to such alternative route.
32.
Compensation for cutting of standing crops, trees, etc.
(1)
At the time of an entry, survey or measurement or doing of any of the things under section 14, the officer making the
entry, survey or measurement or doing any other thing shall pay or tender to any person entitled compensation for all
necessary damage done as a result of such entry, survey, measurement or execution of the work, including the cutting
of standing crops, trees, or removal of temporary structures, if any, on the land. If the sufficiency of the amount so paid
or tendered is disputed, the officer concerned snail at once refer the dispute to the Highway Authority and the said
Authority shall with the least practicable delay decide the dispute and pay to the person entitled the amount determined
as Compensation. The decision of the Highway Authority shall be final.
(2)
If at the time of taking possession of the land under section 19 there are any standing crops, trees or temporary
structures on the land, the Highway Authority shall pay or tender to the person entitled the amount of compensation for
such standing crops, trees or temporary structures. If the sufficiency of such amount is disputed, the value of such
crops, trees and temporary structures shall be taken into consideration in determining the amount of compensation for
the land under [section 19B]
[This word and figure was substituted for the word and figure 'section 28' by Maharashtra 37 of 1999, Section 6, (w.e.f.
Page 17/42
----- PAGE 18 -----
Maharashtra Highways Act, 1955
1.1.2000).]
.
33.
No compensation for unauthorised erections.
- If any person has unauthorisedly erected, re-erected, added or altered any building or: any land which is acquired for
the purpose of a highway, then any increase in the value of the land from such erection, re-erection, addition or
alteration shall not be taken into account in estimating the value of the land.
34.
No compensation for removal of encroachment.
- No compensation she be payable for the removal of any encroachment.
35.
Reference against award of Highway Authority or authorised officer under section 28.
- [(1) Any person aggrieved by the award of the Highway Authority, or the officer authorised under section 28, shall by a
written application to the Highway Authority, or such officer, require that the matter be referred, to Arbitrator appointed
under subsection (8) of section 1913."]
[Sub-section (1) was substituted by Maharashtra 37 of 1999, Section 740.]
;
(2)
Any such application shall be made within six weeks from the date of the award, and shall be in such form as may be
prescribed.
(3)
[* * *]
[Sub-section (3) was deleted by Maharashtra 37 of 1999, Section 7(b).]
(4)
The Highway Authority or the Officer authorised shall make the reference in such manner as may be prescribed.
36.
Procedure and powers of the authorities empowered to decide references under sections 35 and 44.
(1)
References under section 35 and 44 shall be deemed to be proceedings within the meaning of section 141 of the Code
of Civil Procedure, 1908, and in the trial thereof the authorities empowered to decide such references may exercise all
the powers of a civil court under that Code.
(2)
The scope of the enquiry in a reference under section 35 or 44 shall be restricted to a consideration of the matters
referred to the authorities mentioned in subsection (1) in accordance with the provisions of this Act.
37.
Commissioner of Police or District Superintendent of Police to enforce, surrender or remove any encroachment.
- If the Highway Authority or any officer or servant is opposed or impeded [* * *]
[The words 'in taking possession of any land or' were deleted by Maharashtra 37 of 1999, Section B, (w.e.f. 1.1.2000).]
in executing any work or in removing any encroachment under this Act, the Highway Authority or officer or servant
concerned ghat' apply in Greater Bombay to the Commissioner of Police, and elseWhere, to.the District Superintendent
of Police or such Police Officer as the State Government may empower in this behalf, and the Commissioner, the
District Superintendent or the 9fficer,so empowered shall enforce the surrender, removal or execution, as the case may
be.
38.
Decisions of authorities under sections 35 and 44 to be enforced as decrees of civil Court.
- The decisions of the authorities empowered to decide references under sections 35 and 44 shall be enforceable as a
decree of a civil court.
39.
Payment of compensation awarded.
(1)
On the determination of compensation by agreement under section 27, or
Page 18/42
----- PAGE 19 -----
Maharashtra Highways Act, 1955
(2)
On the making of an award under section 28, or
(3)
If a reference is made under section 35 against such award, after the decision of the Authority under that section, the
Highway Authority shall make the payment of the compensation awarded to the person entitled thereto in accordance
with the agreement, its award or the decision of the Authority empowered to decide references under section 35, as the
case may be. [The provisions of section 19C shall mutatis mutandis, apply to such payment.]
[This portion was substituted for the portion 'The provisions of sections 31 to 34 (both inclusive) of the Land Acquisition
Act 1894 shall mutatis mutandis apply to such payment' by Maharashtra 37 of 1999, Section 9.]
40.
Payment by adjustment.
- All payments due to be made to any person by way of compensation by the Highway Authority under this Act shall, as
far as possible, be made by adjustment in such person's account regarding betterment charges, if any, due from such
person under Chapter VI.
Chapter VI
Levy of Betterment Charges
41.
Notice to owners and persons interested.
- Where any work which the Highway Authority is empowered to undertake by or under the provisions of this Act is
undertaken the officer authorized by the State Government in this behalf shall 'give notice to the persons known or
believed to be the owners of or interested in the lands benefited by such work requiring them to appear before him either
personally or by an agent at a time and place therein mentioned (such time not being earlier than 30 days from the date
of notice) to state their objections, if any, to the imposition and recovery of betterment charges on such lands:
Provided that no such notice shall be given unless the Collector with the previous sanction of the State Government has
declared that the value of such lands is likely to increase or has increased by reason of the construction of such work.
42.
Inquiry and order.
- On the date fixed under section 41 or on such other date to which the inquiry may be adjourned, the officer authorised
under section 41 shall, after holding a formal inquiry and after hearing the objections, if any, stated by the persons as
required by notice under section 41, make an order. The order shall specify,-
(a)
the lands benefited by the construction of the work.
(b)
the increase in the value of such lands by the proposed construction,
(c)
the amount of the betterment charges leviable on each of the said lands.
(d)
the date from which such betterment charges shall be leviable,
Provided that no betterment charges shall be leviable in respect of any land-
(a)
which is unsuitable for development as a building site, or
(b)
which is situate beyond a distance of one furlong from the middle of the highway on either side.
43.
Increase in value and betterment charges.
- The increase in value on account of the construction of such work shall be the amount by which the value of the land
on the date of the completion of the proposed work is likely to exceed or has exceeded the value of the land on the date
of the commencement of the said work and the betterment charges shall be one-half of such increase in value.
Explanation.- For the purposes of this section, the State Government shall, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify-
(a)
the date of commencement of the construction of any work.
Page 19/42
----- PAGE 20 -----
Maharashtra Highways Act, 1955
(b)
the date of completion of such work.
44.
Reference against order of authorized officer under section 42.
(1)
Any person aggrieved by the order fixing the betterment charges may, by a written application to the officer authorized
under section 41, require that the matter be referred, if the land in relation to which the order is made is situate,-
(i)
in Greater Bombay, to the Principal Judge of the City Civil Court or such other Judge of the said Court as may be
nominated by the State Government in consultation with the Principal Judge; and
(ii)
elsewhere, to the Civil Judge (Senior Division) of the district within the limits of whose jurisdiction the land is situate.
(2)
Any such application shall be made within six weeks from the date on which the order of the officer referred to in
sub-section (1) was communicated to such person and shall be in such form as may be prescribed.
(3)
The provisions of sections 5, 12 and 14 of the Indian Limitation Act, 1908, shall apply to the computation of the time
fixed for reference under subsection (2).
(4)
The Officer authorized under section 41 shall make the reference, in such manner as may be prescribed.
45.
Finality of order fixing betterment charges and of decision on reference.
- The order fixing the betterment charges made under section 42, subject to a reference to the Authority under section
44 and the decision of the Authority on reference under section 44, shall be final.
46.
Betterment charges to be first charged on land next to land revenue.
- From the date specified in the. order fixing the betterment charges as the date from which such charges shall be
leviable, or from such date as may be otherwise specified by the Authority under section 44 as the date from which such
charge shall be leviable, the betterment charges recoverable in respect of any land shall, subject to the prior payment of
the land revenue, if any, due to the State Government thereon, be a first charge on the land in respect of which such
betterment charges are leviable.
47.
Payment of betterment charges.
- The betterment charges shall be payable on the date fixed under the rules made by the State Government under
section 71:
Provided that the owner of the land in which such charges are imposed may execute an agreement in favour of the
State Government agreeing to pay the amount of such charges by annual instalments together with interest at such rate
and within such period as may be prescribed.
48.
Relinquishment of or exchange of land in lieu of payment of betterment charges.
- Notwithstanding anything contained in section 47, the State Government may allow the owner of the land on which the
betterment charges may be payable to relinquish the whole or any part of the land or to deliver it in exchange in lieu of
payment of the charges, in favour of the State Government on such conditions as may be prescribed:
Provided that no such relinquishment or exchange shall be permitted unless the land is free from encumbrances.
Chapter VII
Supplemental Provisions to Secure Safety of Traffic and Prevention of Damage to Highways
49.
[Prevention of danger arising from obstruction of view, etc., of persons using any highway.]
[This marginal note was substituted for the original by Maharashtra 42 of 1965, Section 8(c).]
(1)
Whenever the Highway Authority is of opinion that it is necessary for the prevention of danger arising from obstruction of
Page 20/42
----- PAGE 21 -----
Maharashtra Highways Act, 1955
the view of persons using any highway [or from distraction of attention of such persons]
[These words were inserted by Maharashtra 42 of 1965, Section 8.]
, especially at any bend or corner of the highway, it may, save as otherwise provided in section 11, serve a notice upon
the owner or occupier of land alongside or at the bend or corner of such highway to alter within such time and in such
manner as may be specified in the notice, the height or character of any existing wall (not being a wall forming part of a
permanent structure), fence, hedge, tree, advertisement post, bill board or any other object thereon, so as to cause it to
conform with any requirements specified in the notice.
(2)
If any person upon whom a notice has been served under sub-section (1) objects to comply with any requirement of
such notice, he may, within one month of its receipt, send to the Highway Authority his objection in writing stating the
grounds thereof.
(3)
The Highway Authority shall, within one mouth of the receipt of the objection, consider the grounds advanced, and shall,
by order in writing, either withdraw the notice or amend or confirm it.
(4)
If a person is aggrieved by an order issued by the Highway Authority under sub-section (3), he may prefer an appeal
within 15 days from the date when such order was communicated to him, to the Collector whose decision in the matter
shall be final.
(5)
If any person fails to comply with the notice served on him under subsection (1) as amended or confirmed, as the case
may be, under sub-section (3), the Highway Authority may take action to alter the object causing obstruction of view [or
distraction of attention]
[These words were inserted by Maharashtra 42 of 1965, Section 8.]
at its own expense, and such expenditure shall be recovered from such person in accordance with the provisions of
section 25, without prejudice to any other action which may be taken against him.
50.
Highway Authority to regulate traffic when highway declared unsafe.
- If at any time it appears to the Highway Authority that any highway in its charge or any portion thereof is or has been
rendered unsafe for vehicular or pedestrian traffic by reason of damage or otherwise, it may, subject to such rules as
may be prescribed in this behalf, either close the highway or the portion of it to all traffic or to any class of traffic, or
regulate the number and speed or weight of vehicles using the highway.
51.
Prohibition of use of heavy vehicles on certain highways.
- Where the Highway Authority is satisfied that any highway or a portion thereof, or any bridge, culvert or causeway built
on or across any highway, is not designed to carry vehicles of which the laden weight exceeds such limit as may be
fixed in this behalf, it may, subject to such rules as may be prescribed in that behalf, prohibit or restrict the playing of
such vehicles on or over such highway or such part of the highway or such bridge, culvert or causeway.
52.
Procedure to be followed when Highway Authority desires permanently to close any highway.
(1)
Where in exercise of the powers conferred on it on by section 50 the Highway Authority desires permanently to close
down any highway or part thereof, it shall give notice of its intention so to do in the Official Gazette. The notification shall
also be published in at least two newspapers, one of which shall be in the regional language of the place in which the
highway is situated.
(2)
The notice shall indicate the alternative route, if any, which is proposed to be provided or which may already be in
existence, and shall also invite objections, if any, to the proposal to be submitted within such time as may be specified.
(3)
The Highway Authority shall finalise its proposal to close down any highway or part of it after considering the objections,
if any, received within the specified time and shall submit the final proposal to the State Government for approval
together with such objections as may have been received against the proposal.
Page 21/42
----- PAGE 22 -----
Maharashtra Highways Act, 1955
(4)
The State Government may either approve the proposal, with or without modifications, or reject it.
(5)
When the State Government has approved the proposal it shall publish its orders in the Official Gazette.
(6)
When the orders of the State Government have been published in the Official Gazette, the Highway Authority shall
arrange for further publicity to be given to the orders in at least two newspapers one of which shall be in the regional
language of the place in which such highway is situate and the highway or part thereof shall then be closed.
(7)
Whenever any highway or any part thereof has been so closed, reasonable compensation shall be paid to every person
who was entitled, otherwise than as a mere member of the public, to use such highway or part thereof as a means of
access to or from his property and has suffered damage for such closure.
53.
Consent of Highway Authority required to do certain acts on highway.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in any other enactment for the time being in force but subject to the provisions of
section 72 no person other than the Highway Authority or any person authorized by it shall construct or carry any cable,
wire, pipe drain,. sewer or channel of any kind through, across, under or over any highway, except with the permission in
writing of the Highway Authority,
(2)
In giving its consent, the Highway Authority may impose such-condition as it may deem to be necessary, and may also
impose a rent ,or other charge for any land forming part of the highway occupied by or applied to the proposed work.
(3)
If any person constructs or carries out any work in contravention of subsection (1), the Highway Authority may arrange
for the removal of such work and restoration of the highway to its former condition in accordance with the provisions of
section 23 as if the work constituted an encroachment on the highway, and such expenses as the Highway Authority
may incur for this purpose, shall, without prejudice to any other action that may be taken against such person, be
recovered from him in accordance with the procedure provided in section 25 in so far as that procedure is applicable.
54.
Prevention and rectification of damaged highway.
(1)
No person shall wilfully cause, or allow any vehicle or animal in his charge to cause any damage to any highway.
(2)
Where in contravention of sub-section (1) any damage has been caused to any highway, the Highway Authority shall
have the damage repaired and the expenses involved shall, without prejudice to any other action that may be taken
against the person responsible for the contravention of sub-section (1), be recovered from him in accordance with the
procedure provided in section 25 in so far as that procedure is applicable.
Chapter VIII
Penalties
55.
Disobedience of orders, instructions and refusal to give information, etc.
- Whoever wilfully disobeys any direction lawfully given by any person or authority empowered under this Act to give
such direction, or obstructs any person or authority in the discharge of any functions that such person or authority is
required or empowered under this Act to discharge, or, being required by or under this Act to supply any information,
withholds such information or gives information which he knows to be false or which he does not believe to be true shall,
on conviction be punished with fine which may extend to [one thousand rupees]
[These words were substituted for the words 'two hundred rupees' by Maharashtra 37 of 1999 Section 10.]
56.
Contravention of restrictions relating to access or erecting any building, etc.
- Whoever erects, alters or extends any building, or makes any excavation, or constructs any means of access to or
from a highway or does any other work in contravention of the provisions of section 9, shall, on conviction, be punished-
Page 22/42
----- PAGE 23 -----
Maharashtra Highways Act, 1955
(a)
with fine which may extend to [two thousand rupees]
[These words were substituted for the words 'five hundred rupees' by Maharashtra 37 of 1999, section 11(a).]
, and
(b)
with further fine which may extend to [five hundred rupees]
[These words were substituted for the words. 'one hundred rupees' by Maharashtra 37 of 1999, Section 11(b).]
for each day after such conviction, during which the offending structure or work is not removed, demolished or cleared
and the site not restored to its original condition.
57.
Unauthorized occupation of highway.
- Whoever-
(a)
occupies or makes any encroachment on any highway in contravention of the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 21,
or
(b)
fails to comply with the notice served on him under sub-section (1) of section 23 for no valid reason,
shall, on conviction, be punished-
(a)
for a first offence with fine which may extend to [one thousand rupees]
[These words were substtuted for the words 'two hundred and fifty rupees' by Maharashtra 37 of 1999, Section 12(a).]
,
(b)
for a subsequent offence in relation to the same encroachment with fine which may extend to [two thousand rupees]
[These words were substituted for the words 'five hundred rupees' by Maharashtra 37 of 1999, Section 12sb).]
plus a further fine not exceeding [hundred rupees per day]
[These words were substituted for the words 'fifty rupees per day' by Maharashtra 37 of 1999, Section 12(c).]
on which such occupation of the highway or encroachment continues.
58.
Causing damage to highways.
- Whoever in contravention of sub-section (1) of section 54 wilfully causes, or allows any vehicle or animal in his charge
to cause any damage to any highway, shall, on conviction, be punished with fine which may extend to one thousand
rupees.
59.
General provision for punishment of offences.
- Whoever contravenes any provision of this Act or of any rule or order made thereunder shall, if no other penalty is
provided for the offence, on conviction, be punished-
(a)
for a first offence with fine which may extend to [five hundred rupees]
[These words were substituted for the words 'fifty rupees' by Maharashtra 37 of 1999, Section 13(a).]
,
(b)
for a subsequent offence with fine which may extend to [one thousand rupees]
[These words were substituted for the words 'two hundred rupees' by Maharashtra 37 of 1999, Section 13(b).]
60.
Power to compound offences.
- Any offence committed under this Act may be compounded by the Highway Authority and if any proceedings have
been instituted against any person in any criminal court, then on the terms of the compromise being carried out, the
composition shall be held to amount to an acquittal and in no case shall any further proceedings be taken against such
person or any property of such person with reference to the same facts.
Chapter IX
Page 23/42
----- PAGE 24 -----
Maharashtra Highways Act, 1955
Miscellaneous
61.
Powers and duties of police.
- Every police officer shall forthwith furnish information to the nearest Highway Authority, or the nearest officer
subordinate to the Highway Authority of any offence coming to his knowledge which has been committed against this
Act or any rule made under this Act, and shall be bound to assist the Highway Authority and its officers and servants.in
the exercise of their lawful authority.
62.
Duties of village officials.
- Every village headman, village accountant, village watchman or other village official by whatever name called, shall
forthwith inform the nearest police station or the nearest Highway Authority or any officer duly authorized by the Highway
Authority, whenever he becomes aware that any survey mark or any boundary mark of any highway or any mark
showing the building or control line determined in respect of a highway has been destroyed, damaged, removed,
displaced or otherwise tampered with, or that any damage to any highway or encroachment on any highway has been
made.
63.
Power to utilise highway for other than road purposes.
- The Highway Authority may utilise temporarily for other than road purposes land forming part of a highway which is not
immediately required for the passage of traffic, and dispose of the produce of such land.
64.
Summary eviction.
- Any person wrongfully occupying any land,-
(a)
which is a part of a highway,
(b)
the occupation of which contravenes any of the provisions of this Act and the said provisions do not provide for the
eviction of such person,
shall be summarily evicted by the Collector in the manner provided in the Bombay City Land Revenue Act, 1876, or in
the Bombay Land Revenue Code, 1879 [or in any law relating to land revenue in force in any part of the State]
[These words were inserted by Maharashtra 42 of 1965, Section 9.]
, as the case may be, on being required to do so by the Highway Authority or any officer authorized in this behalf by the
State Government.
65.
Inquiries to be held summarily.
(1)
The Highway Authority or the officer authorized by the State Government in this behalf shah, if he desires to make any
inquiry for the purposes of this Act, make the inquiry in the manner provided for holding a summary inquiry under the
Bombay City Land Revenue Act, 1876, or the Bombay Land Revenue Code, 1879, [or under any law relating to land
revenue in force in any part of the State]
[These words were inserted by Maharashtra 42 of 1965, Section 9.]
and all the provisions contained in the said Act or Code [or law]
[These words were inserted by Maharashtra 42 of 1965, Section 10(a)(i).]
relating to the holding of a summary inquiry, shall, so far as may be, apply;
[Provided that, where in any such law, there is no provision for holding inquiry in a summary manner, such inquiry shall
be held in such other manner as is provided in that law.]
[This proviso was added by Maharashtra 42 of 1965, Section 10(a)(ii).]
(2)
The Highway Authority and an officer authorized by the State Government or the Highway Authority under this Act shall
have the same powers for summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person and examining him on oath and
compelling the production of documents as are vested in the revenue officers under the Bombay City Land Revenue
Act, 1876, or the Bombay Land Revenue Code, 1879 [or under any law relating to land revenue in force in any part of
Page 24/42
----- PAGE 25 -----
Maharashtra Highways Act, 1955
the State]
[These words wore added by Maharashtra 42 of 1965, Section 10(b).]
.
66.
Registration of map made under section 8 not required.
(1)
Nothing in the Indian Registration Act, -1908, shall be deemed to require the registration of any map made under section
8,
(2)
All such maps shall, for the purposes' of sections 49 and 50 of the Indian Registration Act, 1908, be deemed to have
been and to be registered in accordance with the provisions of that Act:
Provided that the maps shall be accessible to the public in the manner prescribed.
67.
Certain persons to be public servants.
- The Highway Authority, the officers and other persons authorised or appointed under this Act shall be deemed to be
public servants within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code.
68.
Bar of jurisdiction.
- No Civil Court shall have jurisdiction to settle, decide or deal or with any question which is by or under this Act required
to be settled, decided or dealt with by the Highway Authority, the Collector, an officer or person authorized under this
Act, any Authority under section 35 or section 44 or the State Government.
69.
Protection of persons acting in good faith and limitation of suit or prosecution.
(1)
No suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall be instituted against any public servant or officer or person duly
authorised under this Act in respect of anything in good faith done or intended to be done under this Act, or the rules or
order made thereunder.
(2)
No suit or prosecution shall be instituted against any public servant or officer or person duly authorized under this Act in
respect of anything done or intended to be done under this Act, unless the suit or prosecution has been instituted within
six months from the date of the act complained of.
70.
Service of notices and bills.
(1)
Every notice or bill issued or prepared under this Act, may be served or presented,-
(a)
by delivering or tendering it or sending it by post to the person to whom it is addressed, or to his agent, or
(b)
if such a person or his agent is not found them by leaving it at his usual or last known place of abode or by delivering or
tendering it to some adult male member of his family or by causing it to be fixed on some conspicuous part of the
building or land, if any, to which it relates.
(2)
Where a notice under this Act is required to be served upon an owner or occupier of a building or land, it shall not be
necessary to name the owner or occupier, and the service thereof may be effected either-
(a)
by delivering or tendering the notice or sending it by post to the owner or occupier or if there be more owners or
occupiers than one, to any one of them, or
(b)
if no such owner or occupier is found, then by giving or tendering the notice to an adult male member or servant of his
family or by causing the notice to be fixed on some conspicuous part of the building or land to which the same relates.
(3)
Page 25/42
----- PAGE 26 -----
Maharashtra Highways Act, 1955
Whenever the person to whom a notice or bill is to be served is a minor, service upon his guardian or upon an adult
male member or servant of his family shall be deemed to be service upon the minor.
71.
[ Power to make rules.
[The rules made under the Bombay Highways Act, 1955, as in force in Bombay area of the State of Maharashtra are
hereby extended to the rest of State (vide section 2 of Maharashtra 42 of 1965).]
(1)
The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, and subject to the condition of previous publication,
make rules to carry out all or any of the purposes of this Act.]
(2)
In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, the State Government may make rules for all
or any of the following matters:-
(a)
the manner in which the notification may be published in the village and at the headquarters of the [taluka, tahsil or
mahal]
[These words were substituted for the words 'taluka or mahal' by Maharashtra 42 of 1965, Section 11(a).]
under sub-section (2) of section 7;
(b)
the other places at which copies of map may be open to inspection under section 8;
(c)
the form of application and its contents under sub-section (2) of section 9;
(d)
[ other acts and things which may be done by the Land Acquisition Officer under section 16;
[These clauses were substituted for clause (d) by Maharashtra 37 of 1999, Section 14 substituted clause (d) reads as
follows:-(d) the other manner of publishing the notification under section 15;]
(d1)
the manner in which the amount shall be deposited under section 19C;]
(e)
the conditions on which and the amount of rent or charge on payment of which encroachments may be made on a
highway;
(f)
the manner in which a reference shall be made under section 35 or 44;
(g)
fixation of the date on which the betterment charges shall be payable under section 47 and instalments together with the
rate of interest and the period within which such instalments shall be paid under the proviso to the said section;
(h)
the conditions on which any land may be relinquished or delivered in exchange in favour of the State Government under
section 48;
(i)
rules subject to which any highway or portion of it may be closed to traffic or any class of traffic or the number and speed
or weight of vehicles using the highway may be regulated under section 50;
(j)
rules subject to which plying of vehicles may be prohibited under section 51;
(k)
[ the prevention of danger arising from obstruction of view of persons using highway or from distraction of their attention,
and the prevention of annoyance, danger or injury to the public]
[Clause (k) was substituted for the original by Maharashtra 42 of 1965, Section 11(b).]
(l)
the prevention of obstruction, encroachment and nuisances on or near and of damages to highways;
(m)
the proper maintenance of boundary marks demarcating highway boundaries and building and control lines;
Page 26/42
----- PAGE 27 -----
Maharashtra Highways Act, 1955
(n)
the prescription of various forms of applications required to be made and the forms of notices and bills required to be
served on persons, the charges to be made for the supply of copies of maps, and the rent or other charges to be
imposed or levied under the provisions of this Act;
(o)
the general guidance to the Highway Authority in the discharge of its functions under this Act;
(p)
regulation or diversions of existing rights of access;
(q)
any other matter which is to be or may be prescribed.
72.
Savings.
(1)
Subject to the provisions of this section, nothing in this Act shall affect-
(a)
the rights of any local authority to make any excavation for the purpose of laying, making, altering, repairing or renewing
any sewer, drain, water course or other work; or
(b)
the rights of any authority appointed under any law for the time being in force for gas or water, electricity, railways,
tramways or trolly vehicles to erect any support or make any excavation for the purpose of laying making, altering,
repairing or renewing any main, pipe, sluice, weir, electric line, duct, drain or other apparatus; or
(c)
any land belonging to a railway administration or belonging to or used by a person holding a licence or sanction for the
generation, transformation or distribution of electricity under the Indian Electricity Act, 1910, when such land is held or
used by the railway administration or such person, as the case may be, for the purpose of its railway or for generation,
transformation or distribution of electricity, except in so far as they may consent thereto; or
(d)
any land within the limits of a cantonment or a port declared by or under any law made by Parliament or existing law to
be a major port;
(e)
any land within the jurisdiction of a local authority under the administrative control of the Central Government:
Provided that-
(i)
any restrictions in force under section 9 as to construction, formation or laying out of means of access to, or from, any
road, shall without any such consent as aforesaid, extend to any such land as is specified in clause (c) in so far as the
restrictions relate to means of access over or under such land to, or from, land other than land so specified; and
(ii)
any consent required for the purposes of this section shall not be unreasonably withheld and the question whether or not
the consent so required is unreasonably withheld shall be determined by the State Government and the decision of the
State Government on the question shall be final.
(2)
Nothing in this Act shall affect any powers and duties of the telegraph authority under the provisions of the Indian
Telegraph Act, 1885.
Explanation.- [****] [[Explanation was deleted by Maharashtra 37 of 1999, Section 15.
Deleted Explanation read as under -Explanation.- For the purpose of this section, the Maharashtra Housing Board
constituted under the Bombay Housing Board Act, 1948, or the Vidarbha Housing Board constituted.under the Madhya
Pradesh Statutory Bodies (Region Constitution) Act, 1.956, read with the Madhya Pradesh Housing Board Act, 1950,
shall be deemed to be a local authority.]]
73.
Provisions of this Act or rules to prevail over inconsistent provisions in other laws.
- Save as provided in section 72, the provisions of this Act or rules made thereunder in regard to any matter dealt with
Page 27/42
----- PAGE 28 -----
Maharashtra Highways Act, 1955
thereby shall prevail over the provisions of any other law made by the State Legislature or any law which the State
Legislature is competent to make or to amend, in so far as such law is inconsistent with the said provisions or rules, and
such law to the extent of such inconsistency shall cease to apply or shall not apply to any such matter.
74.
Building and control lines along national highways [and levy of betterment charges]
[These words were added by Maharashtra 42 of 1965, Section 13(d).]
.
- For the avoidance of doubt it is hereby declared that nothing in this Act shall apply to highways whiCh are or have
been declared by or under any law made by Parliament to be national highways:
Provided that if any highway is declared to be a national highway by or under any law made by Parliament, it shall be
lawful for the State Government to fix [* * * *]
[The words 'or not to fix' were deleted by Maharashtra 42 of 1965, Section 13(a).]
the building and control lines for different portions of the said highway under section 7 [or to levy betterment charges
under section 42 on lands the value of which has increased by reason of the construction or proposed construction of
such highway;]
[These words were inserted by Maharashtra 42 of 1.965, Section 13(b).]
and thereafter the provisions of this Act in so far as they apply to the restrictions on buildings between the highway
boundary and the building line or between the building line and the control line and other provisions relating to such
building and control lines [or as the case may be, the provisions of this Act relating to the levy of betterment charges
shall, mutatis mutandis, apply]
[These words were substituted for the words 'shall mutatis mutandis apply' by Maharashtra 42 of 1965, Section 13(c).]
.
75.
[ Repeal and saving.
[Inserted by Maharashtra 42 of 1965, Section 14.]
(1)
On the commencement of the Bombay Highways (Extension and Amendment) Act, 1965, the Central Provinces and
Berar Regulation of Uses of Land Act, 1948, shall stand repealed:
Provided that anything done or action taken (including any notifications or licences issued, plans deposited, or
restrictions imposed, applications and rules made, permissions given, or compensation awarded) under the aforesaid
Act shall, in so far as it is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, be deemed to have been done or taken under
the corresponding provisions of this Act, and shall continue in force 'accordingly, unless and until superseded by
anything done or any action taken under this Act.
(2)
The mention of particular matters in this section shall not affect the general application to this Act of section 7 of the
Bombay General Clauses Act, 1904 (which relates to the effect of repeals).]
Schedule
[Deleted by Maharashtra 24 of 1967, Section 4.]
Notifications
G. N., Pages W. D., No. PSP. 1097/CR. 134/R-8, dated 28th December, 1999 (M. G. PART IV-B, Pages 331) - In
exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of section 1 of the Bombay Highways (Amendment) Act, 1998
(Maharashtra XXXVII of 1999), the Government of Maharashtra hereby appoints the 1st day of January 2000 to be the
date on which the said Act shall come into force.
G. N., B. & C. D., No. BHA. 3760-C(I), dated 7th July, 1960 (M. G., Part IV-B, Pages 80) - In exercise of the powers
conferred by sub-section (3) of section 1 of the Bombay Highways Act, 1955 (Bombay LV of 1955), the Government of
Maharashtra hereby specifies the 8th day of July 1960 as the date on which the remaining provisions of the said Act,
that is to say, sections 2 to 74 (both inclusive) and the Schedule, shall come into force in the Bombay Suburban District
and the Thana District.
G. N., B. & C. D., No. BHA. 3761/534-C-(II), dated 3rd May, 1962 (M. G., Part IV-B, Pages 1538) - In exercise of the
powers conferred by sub-section (3) of section 1 of the Bombay Highways Act, 1955 (Bombay, LV of 1955), the
Government of Maharashtra hereby specifies the day of 11th May 1962 to be the date on which the remaining
Page 28/42
----- PAGE 29 -----
Maharashtra Highways Act, 1955
provisions of the said Act, that is to say, section 2 to 74 (both inclusive) and the Schedule, shall come into force in the
city of Bombay.
G. N., B. & C. D., No. BHA. 3763/52902-C(3),dated 28th August, 1964 (M. G., Part IV-B, Pages 1104) - In exercise of
the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of section of the Bombay Highways Act, 1955 (Bombay, LV of 1955), the
Government of Maharashtra hereby specifies the 3rd day of September 1964 to be the date on which the remaining
provisions of the said Act, that is to say, sections 2 to 74 (both inclusive) and the Schedule, shall come into force in the
Kolaba District.
G. N., B. & C. D., No. BHA. 3765/116348-C(1), dated 19th April, 1967 (M.G., Part IV-B, Pages 1248) - Whereas section
1 of the Bombay Highways Act, 1955 (Bombay LV of 1955) is in force in the whole of the State of Maharashtra and the
remaining provisions of that Act, that is to say, sections 2 to 75 (both inclusive) and the Schedule thereto, have been
brought into force in the areas of Greater Bombay and the Thana and Kolaba Districts;
And whereas it is expedient to bring the said remaining provisions into force also in the rest of the State;
Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of section 1 of the Bombay Highways Act, 1955
(Bombay LV of 1955), the Government of Maharashtra hereby specifies the 28th day of April 1967 to be the date on
which the said remaining provisions shall come into force in the rest of the State.
G. N., B. & C. D., No. BHA. 3767/89257-C, dated 29th December, 1967 (M. G., Part IV-B, Pages 20) - In exercise of the
powers conferred by sub-section (2) of section 1 of the Bombay Highways (Amendment) Act, 1967 (Maharashtra XXIV
of 1967), the Government of Maharashtra hereby appoints the 11th day of January 1968 to be the date on which the-
said Act shall come into force.
G.N., B. & C. D., No. BHA. 3760-C(II), dated 7th July, 1960 (M.G., Part IV-8, Pages 80) - In exercise of the powers
conferred by section 3 of the Bombay Highways Act, 1955 (Bombay LV of 1955), the Government of Maharashtra
hereby declares the land described in the Schedule hereto annexed to be a highway, and classifies it as a State
Highway (Special) to be known as the Eastern Express Highway:-
Schedule 2
District
Taluka
Village
Survey Number
Hissa Number
Area
[*
* * * *]
[Deleted by Corrig. of 2-5-1962.]
A
g
a.
Bombay Suburban District.
South Salsette (Andheri).
Kuria
292
4
6
21
12
...
Do.
Chembur
14-B(P)
0
12
0
Page 29/42
----- PAGE 30 -----
Maharashtra Highways Act, 1955
364(P)
0
6
0
Central Salsette Railway tract (P).
0
19
0
Central Railway land (part).
0
23
0
S. S. No. III, Plot No. 571 (part).
6
1
0
Industrial development land (part).
1
12
0
Shell Colony point
0
22
0
14A-1-A (part)
27
10
0
14A-1-A (part)
0
4
0
14A-1-A (part)
2
3
8
Ghatkopar-Mahul road (part).
0
11
8
Pestamsagar Scheme-
Plot No. 41 (p)
0
0
8
Plot No. 42 (p)
0
2
12
Plot No. 43 (p)
0
Page 30/42
----- PAGE 31 -----
Maharashtra Highways Act, 1955
5
12
Plot No. 44
934 square yards.
Plot No. 45
966 square yards.
Plot No. 46
996 square yards.
Plot No. 47 (p)
0
7
0
Plot No. 58 (p)
0
6
8
Plot No. 59
1046 square yards
Plot No. 60 (p)
0
4
8
Plot No. 61 (p)
0
0
4
Plot No. 82 (p)
0
3
12
Plot No. 83 (p)
0
0
4
Survey No. 320 (p)
7
36
0
Survey No. 397 (p)
0
17
0
Creek land (part)
2
6
0
S. S. III, Plot
No. 571 (part)
0
11
8
Page 31/42
----- PAGE 32 -----
Maharashtra Highways Act, 1955
G.N., B. & C.D., No. BHA-4067/IV-C-(1), dated 5th June, 1970 (M.G., Part IV-B, Pages 983) - In exercise of the powers
conferred by section 41 of the Bombay Highways Act, 1955 (Bombay LV of 1955), the Government of Maharashtra
hereby authorises the officers mentioned in the Schedule appended hereto for the purpose of the said section 41.
Schedule 3
1. Bombay Division
1. Thana District
(1)
Resident Deputy Collector, Thana,
(1)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Thana Division, Thana,
(3)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Bhiwandi Division, Bhiwandi,
(4)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Dahanu Division, Dahanu.
2. Kolaba District
(1)
Resident Deputy Collector, Second Prant Officer, Alibag,
(2)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Alibag, Kolaba
(3)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Mahad Division, Mahad,
(4)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Panvel Division, Panvel.
3. Ratnagiri District
(1)
Resident Deputy Collector, Ratnagiri,
(2)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Dapoli Division, Dapoli,
(3)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Chiplun Division, Chiplun,
(4)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Ratnagiri Division, Ratnagiri,
(5)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Sawantwadi Division, Sawantwadi.
4. Nasik District
(1)
Resident Deputy Collector, Nashik
(2)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Nasik Division, Nasik,
(3)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Malegaon Division, Malegaon
(4)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Niphad Division, Niphad.
5. Dhulia District
(1)
Resident Deputy Collector, Dhulia,
(2)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Nandurbar Division, Nandurbar,
(3)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Dhulia Division, Dhulia.
6. Jalgaon District
Page 32/42
----- PAGE 33 -----
Maharashtra Highways Act, 1955
(1)
Resident Deputy Collector, Jalgaon
(2)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Amalner Division, Amalner,
(3)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Chalisgaon Division, Chalisgaon,
(4)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Jalgaon Division, Jalgaon.
II. Poona Division
7. Poona District
(1)
Resident Deputy Collector and Deputy Collector, Poona City Sub-Division,
(2)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Haveli Division,
(3)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Junnar Division, Khed,
(4)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Baramati Division.
8. Ahmednagar District
(1)
Resident Deputy Collector and Prant Officer, Nagar Sub-Division,
(2)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Parner Sub-Division, Ahmednagar,
(3)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Rahuri Sub-Division, Ahmednagar,
(4)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Sangamner Sub-Division, Sangamner.
9. Sholapur District
(1)
Resident Deputy Collector, Sholapur,
(2)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Sholapur Sub-Division, Sholapur,
(3)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Madha Sub-Division, Kurduwadi,
(4)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Pandharpur Sub-Division, Pandharpur.
10. Satara District
(1)
Resident Deputy Collector and Sub-Divisional Officer, Koregaon Sub-Division, Satara,
(2)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Satara Sub-Division, Satara,
(3)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Phaltan Sub-Division, Phaltan,
(4)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Mahabaleshwar Sub-Division, Mahabaleshwar.
11. Sangli District
(1)
Resident Deputy Collector, Sangli,
(2)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Miraj Sub-Division, Miraj,
(3)
Page 33/42
----- PAGE 34 -----
Maharashtra Highways Act, 1955
Sub-Divisional Officer, Walwa Sub-Division, Sangli.
12. Kolhapur District
(1)
Resident Deputy Collector; Kolhapur,
(2)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Karveer Sub-Division, Kolhapur,
(3)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Gadhinglaj Sub-Division, Gandhinglaj,
(4)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Shahuwadi Sub-Division, Kolhapur.
III. Nagpur Division
13. Nagpur District
(1)
Resident Deputy Collector, Nagpur,
(2)
Sub-Divisional Officer; Nagpur,
(3)
Sub-Divisional Officer; Saoner,
(4)
Sub-Divisional Officer; Ramtek,
(5)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Umrer,
(6)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Kato!.
14. Wardha District
(1)
Resident Deputy Collector,. Wardha,
(2)
Sub-Divisional Officer; Wardha.
(3)
Sub-Divisional Officer; Hinganghat,
(4)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Arvi.
15. Chanda (Chandrapur) District
(1)
Resident Deputy Collector; Chanda (Chandrapur),
(2)
Sub-Divisional Officer; Warora,
(3)
Sub-Divisional Officer; Brahmapuri,
(4)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Gadchiroli,
(5)
Sub-Divisional Officer; Rajura.
16. Bhandara District
(1)
Resident Deputy Collector; Bhandara,
(2)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Bhandara,
(3)
Sub-Divisional Officer; Gondia,
Page 34/42
----- PAGE 35 -----
Maharashtra Highways Act, 1955
(4)
Sub-Divisional Officer; Sakoli.
17. Amravati District
(1)
Resident Deputy Collector, Amravati,
(2)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Amravati,
(3)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Achalpur,
(4)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Daryapur,
(5)
Sub-Divisional Officer; Morshi,
(6)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Chandur.
18. Akola District
(1)
Resident Deputy Collector, Akola,
(2)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Akola,
(3)
Sub-Divisional Officer; Akot,
(4)
Sub-Divisional Officer; Balapur,
(5)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Murtizapur,
(6)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Mangrulpir,
(7)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Washim.
19. Yeotmal District
(1)
Resident Deputy Collector; Yeotmal,
(1)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Yeotmai,
(3)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Kelapur,
(4)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Pusad,
(5)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Darwha,
(6)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Wani.
20. Buldhana District
(1)
Resident Deputy Collector, Buldhana,
(2)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Chikhali, Buldhana,
(3)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Khamgaon,
(4)
Page 35/42
----- PAGE 36 -----
Maharashtra Highways Act, 1955
Sub-Divisional Officer, Malkapur,
(5)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Mehkar,
(6)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Jalgaon.
IV. Aurangabad Division
21. Aurangabad District
(1)
Resident Deputy Collector, Aurangabad,
(2)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Aurangabad,
(3)
Sub-Divisional Officer; Vaijapur,
(4)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Jalna.
22. Bhir District
(1)
Resident Deputy Collector; Bhir,
(2)
Sub-Divisional Officer; Bhir,
(3)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Ambejogai.
23. Nanded District
(1)
Resident Deputy Collector; Nanded,
(2)
Sub-Divisional Officer Nanded,
(3)
Sub-Divisional Officer; Degloor.
24. Osmanabad District
(1)
Resident Deputy Collector, Osmanabad,
(2)
Sub-Divisional Officer; Osmanabad,
(3)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Udgir,
(4)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Latur.
25. Parbhani District
(1)
Resident Deputy Collector, Parbhani,
(2)
Sub-Divisional Officer; Sailu,
(3)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Hingoli.
G.N., B. & C.D., No. BHA. 4067/IV-C(1), dated 17th May, J.971 (M.G., Part IV-B, Pages 721) - In exercise of the powers
conferred by section 41 of the Bombay Highways Act, 1955 (Bombay LV of 1955), the Government of Maharashtra
hereby authorises the officers mentioned in the schedule appended hereto for the purpose of the said section 41:?
Schedule 4
Bombay Division
(1)
Page 36/42
----- PAGE 37 -----
Maharashtra Highways Act, 1955
City of Bombay
(1)
Resident Deputy Collector, Bombay.
(2)
Bombay Suburban District.
(3)
Sub-Divisional Officer; Bombay Suburban District.
G.N., R.D., No. BHA. 4161-1I-C, dated 18th May, 1962 (M.G., Part IV-B, Pages 1767) - In exercise of the powers
conferred by Explanation (a) to section 43 of the Bombay Highways Act, 1955 (Bombay LV of 1955), the Government of
Maharashtra hereby specifies the 8th day of July 1960 to be the date of commencement of the construction of works on
the Eastern Express Highway in the Bombay Suburban District and the Thana District, and Western Express Highway in
the Bombay Suburban District.
G.N., B. & C.D., No. BHA. 3766/49687-C(II), dated 9th August 1967 (M.G., Part IV-B, Pages 2034) - In exercise of the
powers conferred by Explanation (a) to section 43 of the Bombay Highways Act, 1955 (Bombay LV of 1955), the
Government of Maharashtra hereby specifies the 3rd day of September 1964 to be date of commencement of the
construction of works on the BombayPanvel Road in the districts of Bombay Suburban, Thana and Kotaba.
G.N., B. & C.D., No. BHA. 4167/34329-C, dated 28th May, 1968 (M.G., Part IV-B, Pages 600) - In exercise of the
powers conferred by Explanation (b) of section 43 of the Bombay Highways Act, 1955 (Bombay LV of 1955), the
Government of Maharashtra hereby specifies the 1st day of April 1967 to be the date of completion of the construction of
works on the Eastern Express Highway in the Bombay Suburban District and Thana District.
G.N., B. & C.D., No. BHA-4067/IX-C(i), dated 5th June, 1970 (M.G., Part IV-B, Pages 1009) - In exercise of the powers
conferred by section 65 of the Bombay Highways Act, 1955 (Bombay LV of 1955), the Government of Maharashtra
hereby authorises the officers mentioned in the Schedule appended hereto for the purpose of the said section 65 within
their respective jurisdictions.
Schedule 5
1. Bombay Division
1. Thana District
(1)
Resident Deputy Collector, Thana,
(1)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Thana Division, Thana,
(3)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Bhiwandi Division, Bhiwandi,
(4)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Dahanu Division, Dahanu.
2. Kolaba District
(1)
Resident Deputy Collector, Second Prant Officer, Alibag,
(2)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Alibag, Kolaba
(3)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Mahad Division, Mahad,
(4)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Panvel Division, Panvel.
3. Ratnagiri District
(1)
Resident Deputy Collector, Ratnagiri,
(2)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Dapoli Division, Dapoli,
(3)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Chiplun Division, Chiplun,
Page 37/42
----- PAGE 38 -----
Maharashtra Highways Act, 1955
(4)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Ratnagiri Division, Ratnagiri,
(5)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Sawantwadi Division, Sawantwadi.
4. Nasik District
(1)
Resident Deputy Collector, Nashik
(2)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Nasik Division, Nasik,
(3)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Malegaon Division, Malegaon
(4)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Niphad Division, Niphad.
5. Dhulia District
(1)
Resident Deputy Collector, Dhulia,
(2)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Nandurbar Division, Nandurbar,
(3)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Dhulia Division, Dhulia.
6. Jalgaon District
(1)
Resident Deputy Collector, Jalgaon
(2)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Amalner Division, Amalner,
(3)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Chalisgaon Division, Chalisgaon,
(4)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Jalgaon Division, Jalgaon.
II. Poona Division
7. Poona District
(1)
Resident Deputy Collector and Deputy Collector, Poona City Sub-Division,
(2)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Haveli Division,
(3)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Junnar Division, Khed,
(4)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Baramati Division.
8. Ahmednagar District
(1)
Resident Deputy Collector and Prant Officer, Nagar Sub-Division,
(2)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Parner Sub-Division, Ahmednagar,
(3)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Rahuri Sub-Division, Ahmednagar,
(4)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Sangamner Sub-Division, Sangamner.
9. Sholapur District
(1)
Resident Deputy Collector, Sholapur,
Page 38/42
----- PAGE 39 -----
Maharashtra Highways Act, 1955
(2)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Sholapur Sub-Division, Sholapur,
(3)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Madha Sub-Division, Kurduwadi,
(4)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Pandharpur Sub-Division, Pandharpur.
10. Satara District
(1)
Resident Deputy Collector and Sub-Divisional Officer, Koregaon Sub-Division, Satara,
(2)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Satara Sub-Division, Satara,
(3)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Phaltan Sub-Division, Phaltan,
(4)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Mahabaleshwar Sub-Division, Mahabaleshwar.
11. Sangli District
(1)
Resident Deputy Collector, Sangli,
(2)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Miraj Sub-Division, Miraj,
(3)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Walwa Sub-Division, Sangli.
12. Kolhapur District
(1)
Resident Deputy Collector; Kolhapur,
(2)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Karveer Sub-Division, Kolhapur,
(3)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Gadhinglaj Sub-Division, Gandhinglaj,
(4)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Shahuwadi Sub-Division, Kolhapur.
III. Nagpur Division
13. Nagpur District
(1)
Resident Deputy Collector, Nagpur,
(2)
Sub-Divisional Officer; Nagpur,
(3)
Sub-Divisional Officer; Saoner,
(4)
Sub-Divisional Officer; Ramtek,
(5)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Umrer,
(6)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Kato!.
14. Wardha District
(1)
Resident Deputy Collector,. Wardha,
(2)
Sub-Divisional Officer; Wardha.
(3)
Page 39/42
----- PAGE 40 -----
Maharashtra Highways Act, 1955
Sub-Divisional Officer; Hinganghat,
(4)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Arvi.
15. Chanda (Chandrapur) District
(1)
Resident Deputy Collector; Chanda (Chandrapur),
(2)
Sub-Divisional Officer; Warora,
(3)
Sub-Divisional Officer; Brahmapuri,
(4)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Gadchiroli,
(5)
Sub-Divisional Officer; Rajura.
16. Bhandara District
(1)
Resident Deputy Collector; Bhandara,
(2)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Bhandara,
(3)
Sub-Divisional Officer; Gondia,
(4)
Sub-Divisional Officer; Sakoli.
17. Amravati District
(1)
Resident Deputy Collector, Amravati,
(2)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Amravati,
(3)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Achalpur,
(4)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Daryapur,
(5)
Sub-Divisional Officer; Morshi,
(6)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Chandur.
18. Akola District
(1)
Resident Deputy Collector, Akola,
(2)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Akola,
(3)
Sub-Divisional Officer; Akot,
(4)
Sub-Divisional Officer; Balapur,
(5)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Murtizapur,
(6)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Mangrulpir,
(7)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Washim.
Page 40/42
----- PAGE 41 -----
Maharashtra Highways Act, 1955
19. Yeotmal District
(1)
Resident Deputy Collector; Yeotmal,
(1)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Yeotmai,
(3)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Kelapur,
(4)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Pusad,
(5)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Darwha,
(6)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Wani.
20. Buldhana District
(1)
Resident Deputy Collector, Buldhana,
(2)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Chikhali, Buldhana,
(3)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Khamgaon,
(4)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Malkapur,
(5)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Mehkar,
(6)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Jalgaon.
IV. Aurangabad Division
21. Aurangabad District
(1)
Resident Deputy Collector, Aurangabad,
(2)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Aurangabad,
(3)
Sub-Divisional Officer; Vaijapur,
(4)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Jalna.
22. Bhir District
(1)
Resident Deputy Collector; Bhir,
(2)
Sub-Divisional Officer; Bhir,
(3)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Ambejogai.
23. Nanded District
(1)
Resident Deputy Collector; Nanded,
(2)
Sub-Divisional Officer Nanded,
(3)
Sub-Divisional Officer; Degloor.
24. Osmanabad District
Page 41/42
----- PAGE 42 -----
Maharashtra Highways Act, 1955
(1)
Resident Deputy Collector, Osmanabad,
(2)
Sub-Divisional Officer; Osmanabad,
(3)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Udgir,
(4)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Latur.
25. Parbhani District
(1)
Resident Deputy Collector, Parbhani,
(2)
Sub-Divisional Officer; Sailu,
(3)
Sub-Divisional Officer, Hingoli.
G.N., B. & C.D., No. BHA-4067-IX-C (i), dated 31st May, 1971 (M.G., Part IV-B, Pages 720) - In exercise of the powers
conferred by section 65 of the Bombay Highways Act, 1955 (Bombay LV of 1955), the Government of Maharashtra
hereby authorises the officers mentioned in the schedule appended hereto, for the purpose of the said section 65 within
the respective jurisdiction:-
Schedule 6
I. Bombay Division.
1. City of Bombay
1. Resident Deputy Collector, Bombay.
II. Bombay Suburban District.
1. Sub-Divisional Officer, Bombay Suburban District.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 42/42