
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Maharashtra Ministers' Salaries And Allowances Act, 1956
The Maharashtra Ministers' Salaries And Allowances Act, 1956
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/38194937/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
1
]
State of Maharashtra - Act
The Maharashtra Ministers' Salaries And Allowances Act, 1956
MAHARASHTRA
India
The Maharashtra Ministers' Salaries And Allowances Act, 1956
Act 48 of 1956
Published in Gazette 48 on 30 November 1956
Assented to on 30 November 1956
Commenced on 30 November 1956
[This is the version of this document from 30 November 1956.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Maharashtra Ministers' Salaries And Allowances Act, 1956
[30th November, 1956]
BOMBAY ACT No. XLVIII OF 1956
An Act to provide for the salaries and allowances of the Ministers of the Government of Maharashtra and certain other
matters.
WHEREAS, it is expedient to provide for the determination of the salaries and allowances of the Ministers of the
Government of Maharashtra and certain other matters as hereinafter appearing; It is hereby enacted in the Seventh
Year of the Republic of India as follows:
1.
Short title and commencement.
Page 1/6
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Maharashtra Ministers' Salaries And Allowances Act, 1956
(1)
This Act may be called the Maharashtra Ministers' Salaries and Allowances Act.
(2)
It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 1st day of November 1956.
2.
Definitions.
In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context,?
(a)
"maintenance" in relation to a residence includes the payment of rates and taxes due to Government or any local
authority and the provision of electricity, gas and water ;
(b)
"Minister", "Minister of State" and "Deputy Minister" means respectively a Minister, a Minister of State and a Deputy
Minister of the Government of Maharashtra, and "Minister" includes the Chief Minister and the Deputy Chief Minister;
(c)
"residence" includes the staff quarters and other buildings appurtenant thereto, and the gardens thereof ;
(d)
"rules or orders" means rules or orders respectively made under this Act.
3.
Salaries of Ministers and Ministers of State.
(1)
Save as otherwise provided in this Act, there shall be paid to the Minister, during the term of his office, the salary
equivalent to the basic pay and dearness allowance admissible to the Chief Secretary to the Government of
Maharashtra and as revised, from time to time.
(2)
Save as otherwise provided in this Act, there shall be paid to the Minister of State, during the term of his office, the
salary equivalent to the basic pay and dearness allowance allowances admissible to the Additional Chief Secretary to
the Government of Maharashtra and as revised, from time to time;.
4.
Residences of Ministers and Ministers of State.
(1)
Each Minister and Minister of State shall be entitled, without payment of rent, to the use of furnished residence in
Bombay throughout his term of office and for a period of fifteen days immediately thereafter, or in lieu of such residence
a house allowance at the rate of Rs. 10,000 per month and in addition a sum equal to the electricity charges and water
charges, if any, paid by him for his place of residence in Bombay (being a place other than the place of residence
provided under this Act by State Government).
(2)
No charge shall fall on the Minister and Minister of State personally in respect of the maintenance of any residence
provided under this section.
(3)
The expenditure on furnishing the residence provided under this section shall be on such scale as the State Government
may by rules or orders determine.
(4)
Where a house allowance and other sum are payable under sub¬section (1) to the Minister or Minister of State, then,
save as otherwise provided by or under this Act, the State Government shall not incur any expenditure, or the Minister or
Minister of State shall not be entitled to any payment, for additions, alterations, maintenance, repairs or for doing
anything whatsoever in respect of his place of residence.
5.
Conveyances for Ministers and Ministers of State.
(1)
The State Government may, from time to time, for the use of the Ministers and Ministers of State purchase and provide
motor cars and other suitable conveyances, upon such conditions as regards their maintenance and repairs as may be
Page 2/6
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Maharashtra Ministers' Salaries And Allowances Act, 1956
determined by rules or orders made in this behalf. The State Government may also provide free of charge the services
of a chauffeur for each motor car or conveyance so provided.
(2)
Deleted.
6.
Salaries of Deputy Ministers.
There shall be paid to each Deputy Minister of salary of Rs. 2,100 per month.
7.
Residences of Deputy Ministers.
(1)
Each Deputy Minister shall be entitled, without payment of rent, to the use of furnished residence in Bombay throughout
his term of office and for a period of fifteen days immediately thereafter, or in lieu of such residence a house allowance
at the rate of Rs. 10,000 per month and in addition a sum equal to the electricity-charges and water charges, if any, paid
by him for his place of residence in Bombay (being a place other than the place of residence provided under this Act by
the State Government).
(2)
No charge shall fall on the Deputy Minister personally in respect of the maintenance of any residence provided under
this section.
(3)
The expenditure on furnishing the residence provided under this section shall be on such scale as the State Government
may by rules or orders determine.
(4)
Where a house allowance and other sum are payable under sub¬section (1) to the Deputy Minister, then save as
otherwise provided by or under this Act, the State Government shall not incur any expenditure or the Deputy Minister
shall not be entitled to any payment, for additions, alterations, maintenance, repairs or for doing anything whatsoever in
respect of his place of residence.
8.
Conveyances of Deputy Ministers.
(1)
The State Government may, from time to time, for use of the Deputy Ministers, purchase and provide motor cars and
other suitable conveyances, upon such conditions as regards their maintenance and repairs as may be determined by
rules or orders made in this behalf. The State Government may also provide free of charge the services of a chauffeur
for each motor car or conveyance so provided.
(2)
Deleted.
9.
Travelling and daily allowances and residential accommodation at places other than headquarters.
Subject to any rules made in this behalf by the State Government, a Minister or Minister of State or Deputy Minister shall
be entitled to?
(a)
travelling allowance for himself and members of his family and for the transport of his and his family?s effects?
(i)
in respect of the journey to Bombay from his usual place of residence outside Bombay for assuming office, and
(ii)
in respect of the journey from Bombay to his usual place of residence outside Bombay on relinquishing office, and
(b)
travelling and daily allowance in respect of tours on public business undertaken by him and suitable residential
accommodation at places visited by him on such business.
Explanation.?The expression ?Bombay? includes any other place appointed by the State Government for the purpose of
this section.
10.
Page 3/6
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Maharashtra Ministers' Salaries And Allowances Act, 1956
Medical attendance.
Subject to rules or orders made by the State Government, a Minister, a Minister of State and a Deputy Minister and the
members or the family of the Minister, the Minister of State or the Deputy Minister, as the case may be, who are residing
with and dependent on him, shall be entitled, free of charge, to accommodation in hospitals maintained by the State
Government and to medical attendance and treatment.
Explanation.?For the purposes of this section the expression ?a member of the family? means the husband, wife, son,
daughter, father, mother, brother or sister.
10A.
Telephone facilities to Ministers.
(1)
Every Minister, Minister of State and Deputy Minister shall during the term of his office be entitled also to have a
telephone installed at Government cost at the place of residence or at any place in his constituency selected by him
(being a place other than the place of residence provided under this Act by the State Government).
(2)
No charge shall fall on the Minister, Minister of State or Deputy Minister personally in respect of installation of, initial
deposit for, rental charges for, maintenance of and official calls made from, the telephone installed under sub-section
(1).
(3)
There shall also be paid to every Minister, Minister of State and Deputy Minister a sum of Rs. 12,000 per month from the
month in which telephone facility has been provided under this section.
(4)
Where a Minister, Minister of State or Deputy Minister has a telephone installed at any place referred to in sub-section
(1) at his own cost, then?
(a)
the rental charges in respect of such telephone shall be borne by the State Government ; and there shall be paid to such
Minister, Minister of State or Deputy Minister, as the case may be, a sum of Rs. 12,000 per month in respect of such
telephone ; and
(b)
the charges in respect of official calls made from such telephone shall also be borne by the State Government, if such
Minister, Minister of State or Deputy Minister, as the case may be, resides at such place as a residence and a separate
telephone is not provided to him by or under the provisions of this Act by the State Government.
10B.
Free transit by railway, steamer.
(1)
Every Minister, Minister of State and Deputy Minister shall be provided with facilities, which shall entitle him at any time
to travel singly by, first class or as the case may be, by air-conditioned two-tier by any railway in any part of India or by
steamer in any part of the State of Maharashtra, in such manner, and subject to such conditions, as may by rules or
orders be prescribed in that behalf:
Provided that such travel by railway, in any part of India, whether within the State or outside the State, may be availed of
by the Minister, Minister of State or Deputy Minister, as the case may be, either singly or jointly with his spouse or with
his minor children or jointly with his spouse and minor children or companion, so however, that the distance so travelled
by the member outside the State, and by the members of his family or companion whether within or outside the State, in
any financial year does not in the aggregate exceeds fifty thousand kilometers.
Explanation.?For the purpose of calculating the maximum limit of fifty thousand kilometers for travelling, the number of
kilometers travelled by the Minister, Minister of State or Deputy Minister, as the case may be, outside the State and the
number of kilometers travelled by the members of his family or companion from the place of their residence, whether
within or outside the State, shall be counted separately.
(2)
(a)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act where a Minister, Minister of State or Deputy Minister, either singly or
jointly with his spouse, or with his minor children or jointly with his spouse and minor children or companion undertakes
Page 4/6
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Maharashtra Ministers' Salaries And Allowances Act, 1956
a journey by air, in any part of India, whether within or outside the State instead of by railway as provided in this section
he shall be entitled, subject to the maximum limit of fifty thousand kilometers for travelling, to claim travelling allowance,
as if he or both or all of them, as the case may be, had undertaken the journey by air-conditioned two-tier by railway. In
such cases, the difference between the fare for journey by air and the fare for journey by air-conditioned two-tier by
railway will have to be borne by the Minister, Minister of State or Deputy Minister, as the case may be.
(b)
Where a Minister, Minister of State or Deputy Minister, either singly or jointly with the members of his family or
companion as aforesaid undertakes a journey by steamer or road transport, in any part of India outside the State, he
shall be entitled subject to the maximum limit of fifty thousand kilometers for travelling to claim the fare for journey by
steamer or road transport if it is less than fare for journey by air-conditioned two-tier by railway for the same distance or,
if the fare for journey by steamer or road transport is more than the fare for journey by air-conditioned two-tier by railway
for the same distance, to claim the fare for journey by air-conditioned two-tier by railway for the same distance, and he
shall have to bear the difference between two fares.
(3)
In this section, where facilities are given to a Minister of State and Deputy Minister to travel jointly with the spouse (with
or without minor children) or companion, then in the case of a lady Minister, Minister of State or Deputy Minister she
shall be entitled to have these facilities to travel, from time to time, jointly with her spouse or, instead, with any other
member of her family as defined in the Explanation to section 10.
10C.
Facilities of a personal assistant and a computer operator.
(1)
Every Minister, Minister of State and Deputy Minister shall be entitled, free of charge, to the service of a personal
assistant. For this purpose, the Minister, Minister of State or Deputy Minister, as the case may be, may appoint any
person, possessing such qualifications as may be prescribed by rules or orders made under section 14, as his personal
assistant. Subject to such rules or orders as may be made in this behalf the assistant so appointed shall receive a fixed
salary of Rs. 25,000 per month from the State Government.
(2)
There shall be paid to every Minister, Minister of State and Deputy Minister a sum of Rs. 10,000 per month for availing
the services of computer operator.
11.
Sumptuary allowance to Chief Minister.
There shall be placed at the disposal of the Chief Minister a sum of ten lakh rupees per year as sumptuary allowance.
12.
Ministers, Ministers of State and Deputy Minister not entitled to salaries and allowances as members of State
Legislature.
Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in force, determining the salaries and allowances of the
members of the State Legislature, a Minister or a Minister of State or a Deputy Minister shall not be entitled to receive
any salary or allowances under such law, although he is a member of the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly or the
Maharashtra Legislative Council.
13.
Ministers of State and Deputy Ministers not disqualified.
For the avoidance of doubt, it is hereby declared that a person shall not be disqualified for being chosen as, or for being
member of the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly or the Maharashtra Legislative Council merely by reason of the fact
that he holds the office of a Minister of State or of a Deputy Minister.
14.
Power of State Government to make rules and orders.
(1)
The State Government may make rules or orders for carrying out the purposes of this Act.
(2)
Any rule or order made under this section may be made so as to be retrospective to any date not earlier than the 1st day
of November 1956.
Page 5/6
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Maharashtra Ministers' Salaries And Allowances Act, 1956
(3)
Rules or orders made under this section shall have effect as if enacted in this Act.
15.
Repeal.
The Bombay Ministers Salaries and Allowances Act, 1952 (in this section referred to as ?the said Act?) and any law
corresponding to the provisions of this Act in force immediately before the 1st day of November 1956 in or in relation to
any territories which after that date form part of the new State of Bombay, shall stand repealed:
Provided that notwithstanding such repeal any rules or orders made under the said Act, shall so far as they are not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, continue in force and be deemed to have been made under the provisions of
this Act, unless and until they are superseded by any rules or orders made under that Act.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 6/6