
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Maharashtra Board and Faculty of Ayurvedic and Unani Systems of Medicine (Conditions o...
The Maharashtra Board and Faculty of Ayurvedic and Unani Systems
of Medicine (Conditions of Service of Registrar and Staff) Rules, 1968
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/55917916/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Maharashtra - Act
The Maharashtra Board and Faculty of Ayurvedic and Unani Systems of Medicine (Conditions of Service of Registrar
and Staff) Rules, 1968
MAHARASHTRA
India
The Maharashtra Board and Faculty of Ayurvedic and Unani Systems of Medicine (Conditions of Service of Registrar
and Staff) Rules, 1968
Rule
THE-MAHARASHTRA-BOARD-AND-FACULTY-OF-AYURVEDIC-AND-UNANI-SYSTEMS-OF-MEDICINE-CONDITION
S-OF-SERVICE-OF-REGISTRAR-AND-STAFF-RULES-1968 of 1968
Published on 14 May 1969
Commenced on 14 May 1969
[This is the version of this document from 14 May 1969.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Maharashtra Board and Faculty of Ayurvedic and Unani Systems of Medicine (Conditions of Service of Registrar
and Staff) Rules, 1968
Published vide Notification No. G.N., U.D., P.H. and H.D., No. MMP 1666/ 44281-H, dated 14th May, 1969 (M.G., Part
4-B, page 622)
In exercise of the powers conferred by clauses (da), (r) and (s) of subsection (2) of Section 30, read with sub-sections
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Maharashtra Board and Faculty of Ayurvedic and Unani Systems of Medicine (Conditions o...
(1) and (5) of Section 6 of the Maharashtra Medical Practitioners Act, 1961 (Maharashtra XXVIII of 1961), and of all
other powers enabling it in that behalf, the Government of Maharashtra hereby makes the following Rules, the same
having been previously published as required by sub-section (1) of said Section 30, namely
1.
Short title.
- These Rules may be called the Maharashtra Board and Faculty of Ayurvedic and Unani Systems of Medicine
(Conditions of Service of Registrar and Staff) Rules, 1968.
2.
Pay and allowances of Registrar.
(1)
The Registrar shall draw pay in the scale of Rs. 270- 15 -360- E.B. 015- 450 (City plus dearness allowance at the rate
admissible to Government servants drawing the same pay.
(2)
The Registrar shall, while on tour outside the limits of Greater Bombay in connection with the business of the Board or
the Faculty, draw travelling and daily allowance at the rates prescribed under the Bombay Civil Services Rules for
Government servants drawing the same day.
3.
Tenure of post of Registrar and probation.
- The post of Registrar k shall be of a permanent tenure. The Registrar shall be a full-time officer of the Board and the
Faculty and will not undertake any other employment except with the approval of the Board. Any person, on his first
appointment to a clear vacancy of the post of Registrar, shall be on probation for a period of two years after which he
shall be confirmed by Government if they are satisfied as to his efficiency and general conduct. The probationary period
may, however, be extended if considered necessary.
4.
Other employees.
- All other officers and servants of the Board and Faculty will also be permanent and full-time employees and shall not
accept any other employment except with the approval of the Board or Faculty as the case may be;
Provided that the Executive Committee of the Board or Faculty, as the case may be, may appoint servants for a period
not exceeding three months under intimation to the State Government where the Registrar requires additional
assistance for the work of the Board or Faculty, as the case may be.
5.
Provident Fund.
- The Provident Fund Rules of the Board shall apply to the Registrar.
6.
Leave.
- The provisions made in the Bombay Civil Services Rules In regard to grant of leave to Government servants shall
mutatis mutandis apply to the Registrar and other employees of the Board and the Faculty and it shall be competent to
the Registrar from time to time to grant leave to the staffs.
7.
Attendance.
(1)
The Registrar and other employees of the Board and the Faculty shall, except on public holidays, attend the office
during the hours prescribed by Government for Government offices in Greater Bombay and at such other times as may
be necessary.
8.
Retirement.
- The age of retirement for all the employees including the Registrar shall be 58 years:
Provided that the Board or the Faculty may, with the previous sanction of the Government re-employee a retired
employee for periods not exceeding one year at a time, till he completes the age 60 years.
9.
Resignation.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Maharashtra Board and Faculty of Ayurvedic and Unani Systems of Medicine (Conditions o...
- No employee of the Board or Faculty shall leave service without giving one calendar month's notice in the case of the
temporary employees and three calendar months' notice in case of permanent employees. In case of failure to give the
required notice the employees will have to forfeit his pay equal to the period of notice.
10.
Termination of services.
(1)
The Board or the Faculty as the case may be, may terminate the services of an employee other than the Registrar after
due enquiry giving such employee fair opportunity to explain as to why his services should not be terminated. The Board
or the Faculty may also impose any other minor penalty on any employee other than the Registrar after giving such
employee a show cause notice :
Provided that, it shall be lawful for the Board or the Faculty to terminate the services of its employee who is appointed on
a purely temporary basis and who has given as undertaking that his services are liable to be terminated at any time
without notice and without assigning any reason.
(2)
The Board or the Faculty, as the case may be, may, for good and sufficient reasons to be recorded in writing, suspend
any employee other than the Registrar pending enquiry into his misconduct. During the period of suspension, such
employee may be paid subsistence allowance according to the provisions of the Bombay Civil Services Rules, 1959.
11.
Supervisory powers of Registrar.
- The Registrar shall have general control over the management of the office. All the employees will be directly under the
control of the Registrar, who shall assign to them their duties under the direction of the Executive Committee concerned.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3