
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Maharashtra State Legislature Proceedings (Protection of Publication) Act, 1969
The Maharashtra State Legislature Proceedings (Protection of
Publication) Act, 1969
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/58361311/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Maharashtra - Act
The Maharashtra State Legislature Proceedings (Protection of Publication) Act, 1969
MAHARASHTRA
India
The Maharashtra State Legislature Proceedings (Protection of Publication) Act, 1969
Act 32 of 1969
Published on 13 June 1969
Commenced on 13 June 1969
[This is the version of this document from 13 June 1969.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Maharashtra State Legislature Proceedings (Protection of Publication) Act, 1969
Maharashtra Act
No. 32 of 1969
[13th June, 1969]
For Statement of Objects and Reasons, See Maharashtra Government Gazette, 1968, Part V, page 23.
An Act protect the publication of reports of proceedings of the Maharashtra State Legislature.
Whereas, it is expedient to protect the publication of reports of proceedings of the Maharashtra State Legislature; It is
hereby enacted in the Twentieth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
1.
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Maharashtra State Legislature Proceedings (Protection of Publication) Act, 1969
Short title and extent.
(1)
This Act may be called the Maharashtra State Legislature Proceedings (Protection of Publication) Act, 1969.
(2)
It extends to the whole of the State of Maharashtra.
2.
Definition.
- In this Act, "newspaper" means any printed periodical work (including daily newspaper) containing public news or
comments on public news, and includes a news agency supplying material for publications in a newspaper.
3.
Publication of reports of Legislature proceedings privileged.
(1)
Save as otherwise provided in sub-section (2), no person shall be liable to any proceedings, civil or criminal, in any court
in respect of the publication in a newspaper or a substantially true report of any proceedings of either House of the
Maharashtra State Legislature, unless the publication is proved to have been made with malice.
(2)
Nothing in sub-section (1), shall be construed as protecting the publication of any matter, the publication of which is not
for the public good.
4.
Act also to apply to Legislature proceedings broadcast by wireless telegraphy.
- This Act shall apply in relation to reports or matters broadcast by means of wireless telegraphy as a part of any
programme or service provided by means of a broadcasting station as it applies in relation to reports or matters
published in a newspaper.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2