
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Maharashtra Lokayukta and Upa-Lokayuktas (Competent Authorities) Rules, 1973
The Maharashtra Lokayukta and Upa-Lokayuktas (Competent
Authorities) Rules, 1973
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/142205267/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Maharashtra - Act
The Maharashtra Lokayukta and Upa-Lokayuktas (Competent Authorities) Rules, 1973
MAHARASHTRA
India
The Maharashtra Lokayukta and Upa-Lokayuktas (Competent Authorities) Rules, 1973
Rule THE-MAHARASHTRA-LOKAYUKTA-AND-UPA-LOKAYUKTAS-COMPETENT-AUTHORITIES-RULES-1973 of
1973
Published on 9 November 1973
Commenced on 9 November 1973
[This is the version of this document from 9 November 1973.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Maharashtra Lokayukta and Upa-Lokayuktas (Competent Authorities) Rules, 1973
Published vide Notification No. G.N., G.A.D., No. LPL. 1173/20433-D-1, dated 9th November, 1973 (M.G., part 4B, page
1740)
In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1), read with clauses (a) and (e) of sub-section (2) of section 20 of
the Maharashtra Lokayukta and, Upa-Lokayuktas Act, 1971 (Maharashtra XLVI of 1971); and of all other powers
enabling him in this behalf, the Governor of Maharashtra hereby makes the following rules, namely:
1.
Short title and commencement.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Maharashtra Lokayukta and Upa-Lokayuktas (Competent Authorities) Rules, 1973
(1)
These rules may be called the Maharashtra Lokayukta and Upa-Lokayuktas (Competent Authorities) Rules, 1973.
(2)
They shall come into force at once.
2.
Definitions.
- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,
(a)
"Act" means the Maharashtra Lokayukta and Upa-Lokayuktas Act, 1971 (Maharashtra XLVI of 1971);
(b)
"Section" means a section of this Act;
(c)
Words and expressions used in the Act but not defined in these rules shall have the meanings assigned to them in the
Act.
3.
Competent Authorities.
- The competent authority, in relation to a public servant (other than a Minister or a Secretary) specified in column (1) of
the Table below shall be the authority specified against him in column (2) of that Table.
Table
Description of the public servant
Competent Authority
(1)
(2)
1.
Any public servant falling under the
description given in sub-clause (ii) of clause (k) of section 2
The Secretary to the Government of Maharashtra
of the Department to which the public servant belongs or is
subordinate.
2.
Any public servant falling under the
description given in paragraph (a) of sub-clause (iii) of clause
(k) of section 2.
The Secretary to the Government of Maharashtra,
Rural Development Department.
3.
Any public servant falling under the
description given in paragraph (b) of sub-clause (iii) of clause
(k) of section 2.
The Secretary to the Government of Maharashtra,
Urban Development, Public Health and Housing Department.
4. [
[Substituted by Notification No. IPL. 1079/1611/113-XI, dated 7.6.1979.]
Any public servant (other then the public
servant specified as Competent Authority in column 2 opposite)
falling under the description given in paragraph (a) of
sub-clause (iv) of clause (k) of section 2.
The Municipal Commissioner, in case of a local
authority which is a Municipal Corporation, in the service or
pay of which the public servant is for the time being.
5.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Maharashtra Lokayukta and Upa-Lokayuktas (Competent Authorities) Rules, 1973
Any public servant falling under the
description given in paragraph (b), (c) and (d) of sub-clause
(iv) of clause (k) of section 2.
The Secretary to the Government of Maharashtra
of the Department controlling or concerned with the corporation
(other than a local authority), the Company or the society, as
the case may be, in the service or pay of which the public
servant is for the time being.]
4.
Notice to public servant in case of investigation.
(1)
Where a Lokayukta or an Upa-Lokayukta proposes (after making such preliminary inquiry as the deems fit) to conduct
any investigation under the Act, he shall send a notice in the Form given in the Schedule hereto appended to the public
servant concerned, alongwith a copy of the complaint or in the case of any investigation which he proposes to conduct
on his own motion, a statement setting out the grounds therefor. The notice shall require the public servant to submit his
reply within the time specified therein or within such further time (if any) as may be granted.
(2)
A copy of such notice and of its accompaniments shall be sent to the competent authority concerned.
Schedule
(See rule 4)
In the Office of the| LokayuktaUpa-Lokayukta| Bombay
COM No. L/UL. No. .................... of 20.......
Complainant;
versus
Public servant complained against
To
(Give name and address of the public servant)
Upon considering the material before him, the| LokayuktaUpa-Lokayukta| has decided to conduct an investigation under
the Maharashtra Lokayukta
and Upa-Lokayuktas Act, 1971 (Maharashtra XLVI of 1971),| in respect of the complaint made byon his own motion and
a statement
(name and address of the complainant) against you and a copy of the complaint is appended.statement setting out the
grounds therefor is appended.
Take notice that you are hereby required on or before .............................. (date) to file a statement in reply and to offer
your comments and explanations supported by an affidavit and to produce true copies under your signature of the
documents (if any) on which you want to rely in your defence.
Take further notice that if, on or before the date aforesaid you fail to appear in person to file the reply and offer your
comments and explanation or fail to send the reply etc., by post or otherwise, the matter may be decided in your
absence.
Given under my hand and the seal of the office.
Dated the ..................... Day of ..................... 20
Assistant Registrar.
Office of the| Lokayukta,Upa-Lokayukta,| Bombay.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3