
----- PAGE 1 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/152598621/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
550
]
State of Maharashtra - Act
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
MAHARASHTRA
India
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
Act 28 of 1977
Published on 26 July 1976
Commenced on 26 July 1976
[This is the version of this document from 26 July 1976.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
Maharashtra Act
No. 28 of 1977
For Statement of Objects and Reasons, see Maharashtra Government Gazette, 1976, Part V, Extraordinary, dated 26th
July 1976, at pages 581-587; for Joint Committee Report, see Maharashtra Government Gazette, Part V, Extraordinary,
dated 6th December 1976, at pages 683-764.
(This Act received the assent of the President on the 25th day of April 1977; assent first published in the Maharashtra
Government Gazette, Part IV on the 9th day of May, 1977.)
An Act to unify, consolidate and amend the laws relating to housing, repairing and reconstructing dangerous buildings
and carrying out improvement works in slum areas.
[Whereas, on account of the rapid growth of industries in the urban areas and the fast growth of population and
Page 1/128
----- PAGE 2 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
commercial activities in such areas, the need of housing accommodation could not be met by the limited house
construction activities in the private sector;
And Whereas, in the urban areas and particularly in the [Brihan Mumbai]
[These paragraphs were inserted by Maharashtra 21 of 1986, notwithstanding anything contained in any Judgement,
decree or order of any Court, and shall be deemed always to have been, inserted, Section 2(a).]
area the old buildings which have outlived their lives and rendered themselves in a bad state of repairs and presented a
dangerous possibility of collapse, necessity was increasingly felt to take up the programme of repairs and
reconstructions of such buildings;
And Whereas, due to acute shortage of accommodation in the urban areas slums have come up which necessitated
taking up improvement works in slum areas;
And Whereas, the magnitude of the housing programme for constructions of new houses throughout the State and the
task of repairs and reconstruction of old and dilapidated buildings and improvement of slums in the urban areas is so,
great that it is necessary for the State Government to intervene and take effective step including acquisition of lands and
buildings for carrying out housing, repairs, construction and reconstruction programmes over or in such lands and
buildings and transferring ownership and control thereof to needy persons so as to bring about an equitable distribution
of ownership and control in houses in such lands and buildings to subserve the common good;]
[And Whereas]
[These words were substituted for the word 'Whereas' by Maharashtra 21 of 1986.]
there are at present various corporate and statutory bodies in the State which have been established, for dealing with
the problem of housing accommodation, for repairing and reconstructing building in a bad state of disrepair and
presenting a dangerous possibility of collapse, for carrying out improvemental works in slum areas, and for advancing
loans for construction of houses;
And Whereas the programmes undertaken by these bodies are more or less complementary and there is considerable
overlapping in their working or functioning;
And Whereas it is considered necessary and expedient to co-ordinate the housing programmes with an orderly
development of urban areas in the State;
And Whereas with a view to integrating the activities of these bodies so as to provide for a more comprehensive and
co-ordinated approach to the entire problem of housing development, and planning and development of certain areas in
a balanced manner, with sufficient attention to ecology, pollution, over-crowding and amenities required for leading a
wholesome civic life, it is expedient to established a single Corporate Authority for the whole State and establish new
Boards for certain areas of the State to carry out the plans and programmes of such Authority for the purposes
aforesaid, to replace the existing Boards by the new Boards aforesaid and to provide for matters connected with the
purposes aforesaid; It is hereby enacted in the Twenty-seventh Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Chapter I
Preliminary
1.
Short title, extent and commencement of Act.
(1)
This Act may be called the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976.
(2)
[Chapter VII and Chapter VIII-A extend]
[These words and figures were substituted for the words and figures 'Chapter VIII extends' by Maharashtra 21 of 1986,
Section 3(a).]
only to Greater Bombay, and the rest of the Act extends to the whole State of Maharashtra including Greater Bombay.
(3)
This Act shall come into force in such area, from such date
[The whole of the State of Maharashtra with effect from the 5th December 1977, vide G.N., P.W. and H.D., No. MHA.
1077/(3)/Desk-44, dated the 3rd December 1977.]
, as the State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint; and different dates may be appointed for
different provisions of this Act for different areas.
(4)
Page 2/128
----- PAGE 3 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
[* * * * *]
[Sub-section (4) was deleted by Maharashtra 21 of 1986, Section 3(b).]
1A.
[ Declaration. - It is hereby declared that this Act is for giving effect to the policy of the State towards securing the
principle specified in clause (b) of article 39 of the Constitution of India and the execution of the proposals, plans or
projects therefor and the acquisition therefor of the lands and buildings and transferring the lands, buildings or
tenements therein to the needy persons and the co-operative societies of occupiers of such lands or buildings.]
[Section 1A was inserted, by Maharashtra 21 of 1986, Section 4.]
2.
Definitions
- In this Act, unless the context requires otherwise,-
(1)
"amenity" includes road, bridge, any other means of communication, transport, supply of water and electricity, any other
source of energy, street lighting, drainage, sewerage, educational and welfare projects, markets and conservancy, and
any convenience which the State Government may, in consultation with the Authority, from time to time by notification in
the Official Gazette, specify to be an amenity required for leading a wholesome civic life for the purposes of this Act;
(2)
"appointed day" means the day on which the Authority is duly constituted under section 6;
(3)
"Authority" means the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority established under section 3;
(4)
"Authority premises" means any premises belonging to, or vesting in the Authority, or taken on lease by the Authority, or
entrusted to, or placed at the disposal of, the Authority for management and use for the purposes of this Act;
Explanation. - In this clause "Authority premises" includes any premises taken by persons from the Authority under
hire-purchase agreement, during the period any payments are to be made by such person to the Authority under such
agreement or until such agreement is duly terminated;
(5)
"betterment charges" means charges payable under section 53;
(6)
"Board" means a Board established under section 18;
(7)
"Building" for the purposes of Chapter VIII, means building in respect of which the cess is levied under that Chapter and
includes a tenement let or intended to be let or occupied separately and a house, out-house, stable, shed, but and every
other such structure but does not include any such building or structure which as a whole is unauthorised or any building
which is a temporary building as defined in clause (sb) of section 3 of [the Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act]
[These words were substituted for the words 'the Bombay Municipal Corporation Act' by Maharashtra 25 of 1996,
Section 2 Schedule para (3).]
;
(8)
"bye-laws" means bye-laws made under section 186;
(9)
"cess" means a tax on lands and buildings levied or leviable under Chapter VIII of this Act;
(10)
"Chairman" and "Vice-Chairman" means the Chairman and the Vice-Chairman, respectively of a Board;
(11)
"Competent Authority" means an officer appointed to be the Competent Authority under section 65;
(12)
"co-operative society" means a co-operative housing society registered or deemed to be registered under the
Maharashtra Co-operative Societies Act, 1960;
(13)
"development", with its grammatical variations, means the carrying out of building, engineering, mining or other
Page 3/128
----- PAGE 4 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
operations in, or over, or under, any land (including land under sea, creek, river, lake or any other water) or the making
of any material change in any building or land, and includes re-development and lay-out and sub-division of any land,
and also the provision of amenities and "to develop" shall be construed accordingly;
(14)
"existing Board " means,
(i)
the Maharashtra Housing Board constituted under the Bombay Housing Board Act, 1948,
(ii)
the Vidarbha Housing Board constituted under the Madhya Pradesh Housing Board Act, 1950,
(iii)
the Bombay Building Repairs and Reconstruction Board constituted under the Bombay Building Repairs and
Reconstruction Board Act, 1969;
(iv)
the Maharashtra Slum Improvement Board constituted under the Maharashtra Slum Improvement Board Act, 1973;
(v)
[* ** * *]
[Paragraph (v) was deleted by Maharashtra 54 of 1977, Section 2.]
functioning in the State or any part thereof immediately before the appointed day;
(15)
"fund of the Authority" means the fund of the Authority referred to in section 34;
(16)
"land" includes open sites and land which is being built upon or is already built upon, benefits to arise out of land and
things attached to the earth or permanently fastened to anything attached to the earth; and also include land under sea,
creek, river, lake or any other water;
(17)
"Land Acquisition Officer" means an officer appointed as such under section 49 of this Act;
(18)
"member"-
(i)
in relation to the Authority, means a member of the Authority including the President and the Vice-President thereof,
(ii)
in relation to a Board, means a member of the Board including the Chairman and the Vice-Chairman thereof,
(iii)
in relation to a Panchayat, means a member of a Panchayat including the Sarpanch and Upa-Sarpanch thereof;
(19)
"Metropolitan Act" means the [Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority Act, 1974]
[These words and figures were substituted for the words and figures 'The Bombay Metropolitan Region Development
Authority Act, 1974' by Maharashtra 25 of 1996, Section 2, Schedule para (3).]
;
(20)
"Metropolitan Authority" means the [Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority]
[These words were substituted for the words 'Bombay Metropolitan Region Development Authority,' by Maharashtra 25
of 1996.]
established under the Metropolitan Act;
(21)
"Metropolitan Region" has the meaning assigned to it in the Metropolitan Act;
(22)
"Municipal Commissioner" means the Municipal Commissioner of a Municipal Corporation;
(23)
"Municipal Corporation" means a Municipal Corporation established or constituted under any law for the time being in
force in the State;
Page 4/128
----- PAGE 5 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
(24)
"Municipal Council" means a Municipal Council established under the Maharashtra Municipal Councils Act, 1965;
(25)
"occupier" includes :-
(a)
any person who for the time being is paying or is liable to pay to the owner the rent or any portion of the rent of the land
or building in respect of which such rent is paid or is payable;
(b)
an owner in occupation of, or otherwise using, his land or building;
(c)
a rent-free tenant of any land or building;
(d)
a licensee in occupation of any land or building; and
(e)
any person who is liable to pay to the owner damages for the use and occupation of any land or building;
(26)
"owner", when used with reference to any building or land or a part thereof, let or intended to be let or occupied
separately, means the persons who receives the rent of such building or land or a part thereof, or who will be entitled to
receive the rent thereof if the building or land or a part thereof were let and includes-
(a)
an agent or trustee who receives such rent on account of the owner,
(b)
an agent or trustee who receives the rent of or is entrusted with, or concerned for, any building land or part thereof
devoted to religious or charitable purposes, or
(c)
a receiver, sequestrator, or manager appointed by any court of competent jurisdiction to have the charge of or to
exercise the rights of an owner of the said building, land or part thereof,
(d)
a mortgagee in possession;
(27)
"premises" means any land or building, or part of a building, whether authorised or otherwise, and includes-
(a)
gardens, grounds and out-houses, if any, appertaining to such building or part of a building;
(b)
any fitting affixed to such building or part of a building for the more beneficial enjoyment thereof; and
(c)
building or a part of building let or intended to be let or occupied separately;
(28)
"prescribed" means prescribed by rules;
(29)
"President" and "Vice-President" means the President and Vice-President, respectively, of the Authority;
(30)
"retable value", in relation to a building in any area, has the meaning assigned to it in the relevant municipal law in force
in such area;
(31)
"regulations" means regulations made under section 185;
(32)
"relevant municipal law" means -
(a)
[the Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act,]
[These words were substituted for the words 'the Bombay Municipal Corporation Act' by Maharashtra 25 of 1996,
Page 5/128
----- PAGE 6 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
Section 2, and Schedule para (3).]
(b)
the Bombay Provincial Municipal Corporation Act, 1949.
(c)
the City of Nagpur Municipal Corporation Act, 1948;
(d)
the Maharashtra Municipal Councils Act, 1965;
(33)
"Rent Act" means the Bombay Rents, Hotel and Lodging House Rates Control Act, 1947;
(34)
"rules" means rules made by the State Government under section 184;
(35)
"Slum improvement area" means any area declared as such by a Board under sub-section (1) of section 108;
(36)
"structural repairs" for the purposes of Chapter VIII means repairs or replacement of decayed, cracked, or out of plumb
structural components of a building or any substantial part thereof or any part to which the occupiers have common
access, such as, staircases, passages, water closets or privies by new one of the like material or materials, or of
different material or materials including change in the mode of construction like converting load bearing wall type or
timber framed structure to an R. C. C. one, or a combination of both, which repairs or replacement in the opinion of the
Board, if not carried out expeditiously, may result in the collapse of the building or any such part thereof; and "structural
repairs" includes repairs and replacement of all items which are required to be repaired or replaced as a consequence of
the repairs or replacement aforesaid which are carried out or to be carried out, and also repairs and replacement of the
roof (both not replacement of the tiles only) and of the drain pipes (including house gullies) fixed to the building, which, if
not repaired or replaced simultaneously with structural repairs would cause further damage to the building. When such
repairs to any building or any part thereof are carried out by the Board the building shall be deemed to be structurally
repaired under this Act;
(37)
"Town Planning Act" means the Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning Act, 1966;
(38)
"Tribunal" means the Tribunal constituted under section 73;
(39)
"year" means a year commencing on the first day of April;
(40)
"Zilla Parishad" means a Zilla Parishad established under the Maharashtra Zilla Parishads and Panchayat Samitis Act,
1961.
Chapter II
Establishment of the Authority and Boards
3.
Establishment of Authority.
- The State Government shall, by notification in the Official Gazette, establish for securing the objectives and purposes
of this Act, an Authority to be called the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority for the areas in which
this Act may be brought into force, from time to time.
4.
Authority to be corporate body and local authority.
(1)
The Authority shall be a body corporate having perpetual succession and a common seal and may sue or be sued in its
corporate name and shall be competent to acquire and hold property, both moveable and immovable, and to contract
and do all things necessary for the purposes of this Act.
(2)
The Authority shall be deemed to be a local authority for the purposes of this Act.
5.
Page 6/128
----- PAGE 7 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
Non-applicability of Rent Act or any corresponding law.
- The Rent Act or any law corresponding thereto for the time being in force in any area to which this Act extends,-
(a)
shall not apply to any land or building belonging to us or vesting in, the Authority under or for the purpose of this Act;
(b)
shall not apply as against the Authority to any tenancy, licence or other like relationship created by any existing Board or
the Authority in respect of any such and or building;
(c)
but shall apply to any land or building let, or given on licence, to any existing Board or the Authority.
6.
Constitution of Authority.
(1)
The Authority shall consist of a President, a Vice-President and seven other members all appointed by the State
Government.
(2)
The President may be either a full-time President or a part-time President. If the President is a part-time President then
the State Government shall appoint a full-time Vice-President. The President and Vice-President shall be persons who,
in the opinion of the State Government, have administrative and management experience necessary for conducting and
managing the affairs of the Authority under this Act. The Authority shall consist of the following other members, namely:-
(a)
two official members who, in the opinion of the State Government, have special knowledge of, or practical experience in,
public administration, finance structure engineering, architecture, town and company planning or public housing;
(b)
five non-official members, of whom one shall be a representative of the employees of the Authority.
(3)
The names of the President, Vice-President and other members appointed under this section shall be published in the
Official Gazette, and upon such publication, the Authority shall be deemed to be duly constituted.
7.
Term of office.
- The President, Vice-President and every non-Official member shall, subject to the provisions of this Act, hold office for
a period of three years from the date of publication of his appointment in the Official Gazette:
Provided that, the State Government may, by a notification in the Official Gazette, extend the said period by a further
period not exceeding one year as may be specified in the notification:
Provided further that, after the expiry of the period or extended period of his appointment, a person shall, unless
disqualified, be eligible for re-appointment as the President, the Vice-President or such members, so however, that he
does not hold office for a period of more than seven years in the aggregate.
8.
Conditions of service of President, Vice-President and non-official members.
(1)
Remuneration and other conditions of service of the President and Vice-President who is a non-official shall be such as
the State Government may by order determine.
(2)
Every non-official member shall receive such allowances for the purpose of meeting personal expenditure incurred in
attending the meetings of the Authority or for attending to any other business of the Authority as such member, as the
State Government may by order determine.
(3)
The remuneration of the President, Vice-President and the allowances to the non-official members shall be paid from the
fund of the Authority.
(4)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, if a member of the State Legislature is appointed as a member of the
Authority (including the President or the Vice-President thereof), he shall not be entitled to receive any remuneration
Page 7/128
----- PAGE 8 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
other than travelling allowance, daily allowance or such other allowance which is paid to a member of the Authority for
the purpose of meeting the personal expenditure incurred in attending the meeting of the Authority or in performing any
other functions as such member.
9.
Resignation of non-official members.
- The President, Vice-President or any non-official member may at any time resign his office by writing under his hand
addressed to the State Government and upon the acceptance thereof, the office of the member shall become vacant.
10.
Temporary absence of members.
- If any member is by infirmity or otherwise rendered temporarily incapable of carrying out his duties as a member or is
absent on leave or otherwise, not involving the vacation of his appointment, the State Government may appoint another
person to officiate for him and carry out his functions under this Act or any rules or regulations made thereunder.
11.
Disqualifications of members.
(1)
Subject to the provisions of this section, a person shall be disqualified for being appointed or continuing as the
President, the Vice-President or the non-official member of the Authority, if he-
(a)
holds any office of profit under the Authority,
(b)
is of unsound mind, and stands so declared by a competent court,
(c)
is an uncertificated bankrupt or an undischarged insolvent,
(d)
has directly or indirectly by himself or by any partner, any share or interest if any contract or employment with, by or on
behalf, of the Authority,
(e)
is a Director or a Secretary, Manager or other salaried officer of any incorporated company which has any share or
interest in any contract or employment with, by or on behalf of the Authority, or
(f)
has been or is convicted of any offence involving moral turpitude.
(2)
A person shall not be disqualified under clause (a) of sub-section (1), by reason only of being a President or a
Vice-President, and in the case of a representative of the employees by reason only of being an employee of the
Authority.
(3)
A person shall not, however, be disqualified under clause (d) or (e) of subsection (1), or be deemed to have any share or
interest in any, contract or employment within the meaning of these clauses, by reason only of his, or the incorporated
company of which he is a Director, Secretary, Manager or other salaried officer having a share or interest in any
newspaper in which any advertisement relating to the affairs of the Authority is inserted.
(4)
A person shall not also be disqualified under clause (d) or (e) of subsection (1) or be deemed to have any share or
interest in any incorporated company which has any share or interest in any contract or employment with, by or on
behalf of, the Authority, by reason only of his being a shareholder of such company:
Provided that, such person discloses to the State Government the nature and extent of the shares held by him.
12.
Removal of member.
(1)
The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette remove from office the President, Vice-President or
any non-official member who-
(a)
Page 8/128
----- PAGE 9 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
is, or has become, subject to any of the disqualifications mentioned in section 11; or
(b)
in the opinion of the State Government, has been guilty of any misconduct whether before or after the appointment or
neglect, or has so abused his position as to render his continuance as member detrimental to the interests of the
Authority or of the general public, or is otherwise unfit to continue as member; or
(c)
is absent without permission of the Authority for two consecutive meetings of the Authority:
Provided that, no persons shall be so removed from office unless he has been given an opportunity to show cause
against his removal.
(2)
Notwithstanding anything contained in section 7 or other provisions of this Act, the President, the Vice-President and
other members shall hold office during the pleasure of the State Government; and the State Government, if it appears to
it to be necessary or expedient so to do in the public interest, may by order remove all or any of them from office at any
time.
13.
Filling of vacancies.
(1)
In the event of a vacancy in the office of any member, the vacancy may be filled by the State Government, and the
person so appointed shall hold office so long only as the member in whose place he is appointed would have held office.
(2)
A vacancy of a member shall be filled as early as practicable:
Provided that, during any such vacancy, the continuing members may act as if no vacancy had occurred.
14.
Proceedings presumed to be good and valid.
- No disqualification of, or defect in, the appointment or continuation of any person acting as a member of the Authority
shall be deemed to vitiate any act or proceeding of the Authority if such act or proceeding is otherwise in accordance
with the provisions of this Act.
15.
Existing Boards to continue until Authority constituted.
- Until the Authority is duly constituted under section 6, the existing Board shall continue to function in the area of its
jurisdiction and fields of activity; and on the constitution of the Authority, the existing Board shall stand dissolved and the
members including the office bearers thereof shall vacate their office.
Organisation of the Authority
16.
Authorities charged with execution of this Act.
(1)
The authorities charged with carrying out the provisions of this Act are -
(a)
the Authority,
(b)
the President and the Vice-President of the Authority,
(c)
the Boards,
(d)
the Chairman and the Vice-Chairman of the Boards,
(e)
the Chief Officers of the Boards, having part-time Chairman and also part-time Vice-Chairman.
(2)
Every Board shall be subject to the superintendence, direction and control of the Authority for the purposes of this Act.
17.
President or Vice-President to be Chief Executive Officers.
Page 9/128
----- PAGE 10 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
- The President, if he is a full-time President, shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Authority, and if the President is
not a full-time President, the Vice-President shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Authority under the general
superintendence and control of the President.
18.
Establishment of Boards.
- [(1) (a) The five Boards which have been established before the commencement of the Maharashtra Housing and Area
Development (Second Amendment) Act, 1992 and shown in column 1 of the following table, shall have the area of
jurisdiction shown against each such Board in column 2 of the table.]
[This was substituted for sub-sections (1) and (1A) by Maharashtra 22 of 1992, Section 2.]
Table
Name of the Board
Area of jurisdiction district of
1
2
(1)[The Mumbai Housing and Area Development
Board.]
[These words were substituted for the words 'The Bombay Housing ands Areas Develpmet Board' by Maharashtra 25 of
1996, Section 2 Schedule para (3).]
(a)[The City of Mumbai],
[These words were substituted for the words 'The City of Bombay' by Maharashtra 25 of 1996.]
(2) The Nagpur Housing and Area Development Board.
(b)[The Mumbai Suburban]
[These words were substituted for the words 'Bombay suburban' by Maharashtra 25 of 1996.]
(3) The Aurangabad Housing and Area Development
Board.
(a) Nagpur, (b) Chandrapur, (c) Gadchiroli, (d)
Bhandara, (e) Wardha.
(4) The Pune Housing and Area Development Board.
(a) Aurangabad, (b) Jalna, (c) Parbhani, (d) Beed,
(e) Nanded, (f) Osmanabad, (g) Latur.
(5) Konkan Housing and Area Development Board.
(a) Thane, (b) Raigad, (c) Sindhudurg, (d)
Ratnagiri.
(b) The State Government shall, by notification
in theOfficial Gazette, establish the following two Boards
having the area of jurisdiction in the districts as shown against
each of them, on and with effect from such date as may be
specified in that notification, namely:-
(1) The Amravati Housing and Area Development
Board.
(a) Amravati, (b) Akola, (c) Yavatmal, (d)
Buldhana.
(2) The Nashik Housing and Area Development Board.
(a) Nashik, (b) Ahmednagar, (c) Dhule, (d) Jalgaon]
(c) [ The State Government shall, by notification
in theOfficial Gazette, establish the following two Boards for
carrying out the activities of repairs and reconstruction, and
slum improvement having the area of jurisdiction in the districts
as shown against each of them on and with effect from such date
as may be specified in that notification, namely :-]
[Clause (c) was added by Maharashtra 11 of 1993, Section 2(a).]
Page 10/128
----- PAGE 11 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
(1)[The Mumbai Repairs and Reconstruction Board.]
[These words were substituted for the words 'the Bombay Repairs and Reconstruction Board' by Maharashtra 25 of
1996, Section 2 and Schedule para 3.]
(a)[The City of Mumbai.]
[These words were substituted for the words 'City of Bombay', by Maharashtra 25 of 1996.]
(2)[The Mumbai Slum Improvement Board.]
[These words were substituted for the words 'the Bombay Slum Improvement Board,' by Maharashtra 25 of 1996.]
(b)[The Mumbai Suburban].
[These words were substituted for the words 'Bombay Suburban,' by Maharashtra 25 of 1996.]
(2)
[ Every Board shall consist of a Chairman and not more than [17]
[Sub-section (2) was substituted by Maharashtra 54 of 1977, section 3(a).]
other members including a Vice-Chairman, if any, of whom not less than 3 shall be officials.
All the members including the Chairman and the Vice-Chairman, if any, shall be appointed by the State Government.]
(3)
Not less than two non-official members shall be persons who, in the opinion of the State Government, have special
knowledge or practical experience in finance, structural engineering, architecture, town and country planning, and public
housing.
(4)
The names of the chairman, Vice-Chairman, if any, and other members of a Board shall be published in the Official
Gazette, and upon such publication, to Board shall be deemed to be duly constituted.
(5)
The appointment of the Chairman and Vice-Chairman of a Board may be either whole-time or part-time as the State
Government may think fit. When the Chairman is appointed as a whole-time Chairman, he shall be the Chief Officer of
the Board.
(6)
Where the Chairman is appointed as a part-time Chairman, the Vice-Chairman, if full-time, shall be the Chief Officer of
the Board. If the Vice-Chairman is also part-time, the State Government shall appoint a Chief Officer of the Board, and
he shall be an Officer of the Board.
(7)
Every Board shall have a Chief Accounts Officer. He shall be appointed by the Authority with the previous approval of
the State Government.
(8)
The provisions of sections 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 shall apply mutatis mutandis to a Board or to the Co-opted
members of the Technical Committee appointed under sub-section (10). [* * * * * *]
[These words, brackets and figure 'or of the Improvement Committee appointed under sub-section (11)' were deleted, by
Maharashtra 54 of 1977, Section 3(b).]
as they apply in relation to the Authority.
(9)
Each Board shall be provided with such employees as the Authority may by order in writing, determine. The Board shall
within its jurisdiction be responsible for administering and managing the affairs of the Authority for the purposes of this
Act.
(10)
[The Mumbai Repairs Reconstruction Board]
[These words were substituted for the words 'the Bombay Repairs and Reconstruction Board' by Maharashtra 25 of
1996, 5. 2 and Schedule pars 3.]
shall appoint a Technical Committee, consisting of not less than six of its members and may co-opt, not more than three
other persons on the Committee who are not members of the Board. Subject to the superintendence and control of the
Board, the Technical Committee shall sanction and supervise the repairs and reconstruction works, including the
construction of transit camps, on behalf of the Board under Chapter VIII, The Board may delegate such of its other
functions under Chapter VIII to the Committee as it may decide.
Page 11/128
----- PAGE 12 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
(11)
[* ***]
[Sub-section (11) was deleted by Maharashtra 11 of 1993, Section 3(c)]
19.
Appointment of employees and conditions of service.
(1)
The Authority shall, with the previous approval, of the State Government appoint a Financial Controller and a Secretary.
(2)
Subject to such directions regarding creation of any post and filling thereof as the State Government may from time to
time by an order in writing determine, the Authority may appoint such other employees from time to time for the efficient
performance of its functions as it thinks fit.
(3)
The employees appointed under this Act shall be the employees of the Authority notwithstanding the fact that they are
working under any Board.
(4)
Subject to the provisions of this section, the remuneration and other conditions of services of employees appointed by
the Authority shall be such as may be determined by regulations:
Provided that, subject to the provisions of sections 22, 23 and 189, the terms and conditions of service applicable
immediately before the appointed day to any employee shall not be varied to his disadvantage except with the previous
approval of the State Government.
(5)
The State Government may make rules [with effect from such date as it may specify,]
[These words were inserted, by Maharashtra 8 of 1994, Section 2.]
for regulating the mode of recruitment by holding examinations or otherwise, including provision for the absorption or
promotion of persons already working under any existing Board or otherwise and providing for terminal benefits such as
compensation, pension or gratuity or the like to persons who elect to retire;
20.
Provident Fund.
(1)
The State Government shall establish a provident fund for employees of the Authority, and such provident fund
(hereinafter called as "the provident fund") shall, notwithstanding anything contained in section 8 of the Provident Funds
Act, 1925, be deemed to be a Government Provident Fund for the purposes of that Act; and such provident fund may be
administered by such officers of the State Government or of the Authority, as the State Government may specify in that
behalf.
(2)
The Authority shall, in respect of each of its employees who is a subscriber to the Provident Fund, pay into that fund
such portion of the contribution in such manner as the State Government may, from time to time, determine.
21.
Expenses of Authority on staff.
- [(1) All expenses incurred by the Authority, including expenses incurred on account of salaries, allowances, fees and
other remuneration payable to the employees serving under the Authority, shall be met from the fund of the Authority.
(2)
The Authority may, at its discretion, make from out of its fund, contribution of such amount as it deems fit to the
Employees' Welfare Fund, if any, constituted by the employees of the Authority and managed by the society, formed by
such employees and registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 and the Bombay Public Trusts Act, 1950.]
[Section 21 was re-renumbered as sub-section (1) thereof and after sub-section (1) so renumbered subsection (2) was
added by Maharashtra 12 of 1989, Section 2.]
22.
Authority to absorb staff of existing Boards.
(1)
Subject to the provisions of section 189 and other provisions of this Act every person, who was a whole-time employee
Page 12/128
----- PAGE 13 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
of any existing Board immediately before the appointed day shall, on and from that day, become, and be absorbed as,
an employee of the Authority. He shall holds his office in the Authority by the same tenure, at the same remuneration
and upon the same terms and conditions and with the same rights and privileges as to pension, gratuity and provident
fund and other matters as he would have the same on the appointed day of this Act had not been passed, and shall
continue to do so, unless and until his employment in the Authority is terminated or until his remuneration terms and
conditions are duly altered by the Authority:
Provided that, nothing contained in this section shall apply to any such employee who has, by notice in writing given to
the State Government prior to the appointed day, intimated his intention of not becoming an employee of the Authority.
(2)
If any question arises as to whether any person was a whole-time employee of an existing Board immediately before the
appointed day or not, the question shad be referred to the State Government, whose decision shall be final.
(3)
Notwithstanding anything contained in the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 or any other law for the time being in force the
absorption of any employee of an existing Board by the Authority shall not entitle any such employee to any
compensation under that Act or other law, and no such claim shall be entertained by any Court, Tribunal or other
Authority.
23.
Power of State Government of reduction of remuneration or revision of conditions of service for securing uniformity.
(1)
Where the State Government is satisfied that for the purpose of securing uniformity in the scales of remuneration and
the other terms and conditions of service applicable to the employees who are absorbed by the Authority under section
22, it is necessary so to do, or that, in the interest of the Authority a reduction in the remuneration payable, of a revision
of the other terms and conditions of service applicable, to employees of any class of employees is called for, the State
Government may, notwithstanding anything contained in section 22 or other provisions of this Act or in the Industrial
Disputes Act, 1947, or in any other law for the time being on force, or in any award, settlement or agreement for the time
being in force, alter (whether by way of reduction or otherwise) the remuneration and the other terms and conditions of
service to such extent and in such manner as it think fit; and if the alteration is not acceptable to any employee, the
Authority may terminate his employment by giving compensation equivalent to three months' remuneration unless the
contract of service with such employee provides for a shorter notice of termination.
Explanation. - The compensation payable to an employee under this section shall be in addition to, and shall not affect,
any pension, gratuity, provident fund money or any other benefit to which the employee may be entitled under his
contract of service.
(2)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), the remuneration payable to any employee absorbed by the
Authority under section 22, shall not be altered under that sub-section to his disadvantage, so as to be less than the
remuneration paid or payable to him on the 1st January 1975 plus the increments earned by him during the period from
the said date to the appointed day.
24.
General disqualification of all employees.
- No person who had directly or indirectly by himself or his partner or agent any share or interest in any contract, by or
on behalf of the Authority, or in any employment under, by or on behalf of the Authority otherwise than as an employee
thereof, shall become or remain an employee of the Authority.
Conduct of Business
25.
Meetings of Authority.
(1)
The Authority shall meet at such times, at least once in two months and at such places as the President may determine.
(2)
The President or in his absence the Vice-President, and in the absence of both the President and Vice-President, any
other member chosen by the members present from amongSt themselves shall preside at a meeting of the Authority.
(3)
Page 13/128
----- PAGE 14 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
All questions at a meeting of the Authority shall be decided by a majority of votes of the members present and voting;
and in the case of an equality of vote, the person presiding shall have and exercise a second or casting vote.
(4)
Three members shall form a quorum to constitute a meeting of the Authority.
(5)
Minutes shall be kept of the names of the members present and of others who attend the meetings of the Authority
under the provisions of this Act and of the proceedings of each meeting, in a minute book to be kept for the purpose.
The minutes shall be signed at the next ensuing meeting after confirmation at such meeting and shall be open to
inspection by any member during office hours of the Authority.
(6)
Subject to the foregoing provision, the Authority may observe such rule of procedure in regard to the transaction of its
business as it may deem proper and expedient.
26.
Temporary association of persons with Authority for particular purpose.
(1)
The Authority may associate with itself, any person whose assistance or advice it may desire for carrying into effect any
of the provisions of this Act:
Provided that, the number of persons so associated shall not be more than three.
(2)
A person -associated with the Authority under sub-section (1) for any purpose shall have the right to take part in the
deliberations of the Authority relevant to that purpose, but shall not have the right to vote.
(3)
The State Government may, by order, depute its representatives to attend any meeting of the Authority and to take part
in the deliberations of the Authority, on such items or subjects as the State Government may specify, but such
representatives shall not have the right to vote.
27.
Section 25 and 26 to apply to Meetings of Boards.
- The provisions of section 25 in relation to meetings of a Board and of section 26 in relation to temporary associations
of persons with a Board shall apply as they apply in relation to meetings of the Authority or in relation to temporary
association of persons with the Authority with the modifications that -
(1)
in sub-section (1) of section 25, for the word "Authority" the word "Board" and for the words "in two months" the words "a
month" [and for the word "President" the word "Chairman" shall, respectively,]
[These words were substituted for the words 'shall, respectively' by Maharashtra 12 of 1989, Section 3.]
be substituted;
(2)
in sub-section (2) of section 25, for the words "President" the word "Chairman" and for the word "Vice-President" the
word "Vice-Chairman" shall be substituted;
(3)
in each of sub-sections (2), (3) (4), (5) and (6) of section 25, for the word "Authority" the word "Board" shall be
substituted;
(4)
in sub-section (4) of section 25 for the words "Three members" the words "One-third of the members" shall be
substituted;
(5)
in section 26, for the word "Authority" wherever it occurs, the word "Board" shall be substituted.
Chapter III
Functions, Duties and Powers of the Authority and Boards
28.
Functions, duties and powers of Authority.
(1)
Page 14/128
----- PAGE 15 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
Subject to the provisions of the Town Planning Act, and the provisions of clauses (b) and (h) of sub-section (1) of section
12 and section 13 of the Metropolitan Act, it shall be the duty and function of the Authority,-
(a)
to prepare or direct the Boards to prepare and execute proposals, plans or projects for -
(i)
housing accommodation in the State or any part thereof, sale, including transactions in the nature of hire-purchase of
tenements in any buildings vested in, or belonging, to the Authority letting, or exchange of property of the Authority;
(ii)
development including provision for amenities in areas within the jurisdiction of the Authority;
(iii)
clearance and re-development of slums in urban areas;
(iv)
development of peripheral areas of existing urban areas to ensure an orderly urban overspill;
(v)
development of commercial centres;
(vi)
development of new towns in accordance with the provisions of the Town Planning Act;
(vii)
development of lands vested in the Authority;
(viii)
the closure or demolition of dwellings or portions of dwellings unfit for human habitation;
(ix)
the demolition of obstructive or dangerous and dilapidated buildings or portions of such buildings;
(x)
repairs to, or construction and reconstruction of buildings;
(xi)
the slum improvement works and improvement of sanitary arrangements required in any slum improvement area,
including the conservation and prevention of any injury or contamination to rivers or other sources and means of
water-supply;
(xii)
undertakings and promoting prefabrication and mass production of buildings components;
(b)
to manage all lands, houses and buildings or other property vested in, or belonging to the Authority;
(c)
to approve proposals plans or projects prepared by Boards;
(d)
to raise resources for the purpose of carrying out the objects of this Act and subject to the directions, if any, made by the
State Government, to make suitable allocations of resources to the Boards;
(e)
to approve the budgets of the Boards;
(f)
to lay down policy regarding disposal of developed sites and housing tenements of the Authority;
(g)
to give directions to Boards for developing areas which in the opinion of the Authority should be developed;
(h)
[ to advance loans or to assist persons in obtaining loans for banking or finance institutions in accordance with the
provisions of Chapter X;]
[Clause (h) was substituted for the original by Maharashtra 12 of 1989, Section 4(a).]
(i)
to do all such matters and things as are necessary for the exercise or performance of all or any of the functions and
duties of the Authority including incurring of expenditure in that behalf.
Page 15/128
----- PAGE 16 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
(2)
In addition to the duties and functions referred to in sub-section (1), the Authority may undertake such other duties and
functions, including those of a Planning Authority or Special Planning Authority under the Town Planning Act, as the
State Government may assign to the Authority in any specified area, and in doing so, the Authority shall be deemed to
be fulfilling the purposes of this Act and the provisions of the Act shall apply to the Authority in respect of those duties
and functions also.
(3)
The Authority may exercise all or any of the following powers for the purpose of discharging its functions and performing
its duties under this Act, namely :-
(i)
to borrow;
(ii)
to enter into agreements and contracts;
(iii)
to sell, purchase, lease, mortgage, exchange, partition or otherwise transfer any land or building or to hold land
entrusted to it by Government or by any authority;
(iv)
to make regulations regarding,-
(a)
procedures to be followed regarding contracts
(b)
[*****]
[Sub-clause (b) was deleted by Maharashtra ,12 of 1989, Section 4(b).]
(c)
operation of accounts of the Authority;
(d)
all matters pertaining to staff of the Authority;
(v)
to promote or to participate in the formation of limited companies under the Companies Act, 1956, in furtherance of the
objectives of the Authority with the prior permission of the State Government;
(vi)
management of each state including co-operative societies;
(vii)
to enter and search an Authority premises after due notice, when necessary to the inmates thereof;
(viii)
to execute or carry out any repairs to the lands or buildings vesting in or belonging to, the Authority;
(ix)
all other powers necessary for carrying out the purpose of this Act including the power to levy or charge fees.
29.
Powers, duties and functions of Boards.
(1)
The powers, duties and functions of the Boards shall, subject to the provisions of sub-section.(2), be, -
(a)
to prepare proposals, plans or projects for any of the matters referred to in clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 28
and execute them;
(b)
to enter into contracts in the name of the Authority;
(c)
to function on behalf of the Authority as Special Planning Authority under the Town Planning Act;
(d)
to carry out such powers, duties and functions as the Authority may delegate to the Boards.
Page 16/128
----- PAGE 17 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
(2)
[The Mumbai Housing and Area Development Board]
[These words were substituted for the words 'the Bombay Housing and Area Development Board', 'the. Bombay Repairs
and Reconstruction Board' and 'the Bombay Slum Improvement Board' respectively, by Maharashtra 25 of 1996, Section
2, Schedule para (3).]
or [the Mumbai Repairs and reconstruction Board or the [Mumbai Slum Improvement Board]
[These words were substituted for the words 'the Bombay Housing and Area Development Board', 'the. Bombay Repairs
and Reconstruction Board' and 'the Bombay Slum Improvement Board' respectively, by Maharashtra 25 of 1996, Section
2, Schedule para (3).]
or the Konkan Housing and Area Development Board as the case may be] shall execute any such plan or project within
its area of jurisdiction in the Metropolitan Region so as not to be inconsistent with the projects or schemes formulated for
the development of the Metropolitan Region or any part thereof under the Metropolitan Act.
(3)
[**********]
[Sub-section (3) was deleted by Maharashtra 54 of 1977, Section 4.]
Chapter IV
Budget, Finance, Accounts and Audit
30.
Submission of budget to Authority.
- [(1) The Chief Executive Officer or in his absence the Financial Controller or such officer, as may be specially or
generally authorised in this behalf, by the Authority shall, at a special meeting to be held not later than 31st [March]
[Sub-section (1) was Substituted by Maharashtra 23 of 2000 (w.e.f. 1-2-2000).]
in each year, lay before the Authority, the budget estimates of the Authority for the next year.]
(2)
Every such budget estimates shall be prepared in such from as the State Government may, from time to time by order,
determine, and shall provide for, -
(i)
the proposals, plans and projects which the Authority proposes to execute whether in part or in whole during the next
year;
(ii)
the due fulfilment of all the liabilities of the Authority; and
(iii)
the implementation of the provisions of this Act;
and such estimates shall contain a statement showing the estimated income and expenditure on capital revenue
accounts, for the next year and such other particulars indicating the financial performance of the Authority as the State
Government may direct. The budget shall clearly reveal financial outlay and performance.
(3)
The Chief Officer of every Board shall prepare annually on or before such date and in such form as the State
Government may from time to time by order determine a budget estimate of the income and expenditure of the Board for
the next year relating to the proposals, plans or projects to be undertaken or continued or executed from the funds of the
Authority.
(4)
Every Board shall, as soon as may be, after the said date consider the budget estimates so prepared and approve the
same with or without modifications and forward it to the Authority for the inclusion thereof in the budget estimates of the
Authority before such date as the State Government may, from time to time, by order determine.
31.
Sanction of budget estimates.
- The Authority shall consider the budget estimates submitted to it under section 30 and approve the same with or
without modifications on or before such date as the State Government may, from time to time, determine. The budget
estimates forwarded by every Board shall form part of the budget estimates of the Authority.
32.
Page 17/128
----- PAGE 18 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
Submission of approved budget estimates to State Government.
(1)
Every budget estimates approved by the Authority under the last preceding section shall be submitted to the State
Government for information.
(2)
After the receipt of the approved budget estimates, the State Government may as far as practicable before the
beginning of the next year, suggest to the Authority, such modifications therein as the State Government may deem fit,
and the Authority shall carry out such modifications in the budget estimates in such manner as the Authority may think
fit.
33.
Supplementary budget.
- The Chief Executive Officer may, at any time during the year for which a budget has been approved by the Authority,
lay before the Authority as supplementary budget estimate and the provisions of sections 30, 31 and 32 shall, so far as
may be, apply to such supplementary budget estimates.
34.
Authority's Fund
(1)
The Authority shall have its own fund.
(2)
(a)
All moneys received by the Authority by way of grants, subventions, donations and gifts for all or any of the purposes of
this Act;
(b)
All proceeds of land or any other kind of property sold or disposed of by the Authority, all rents, deposits, betterment
charges and all interest, profits and other moneys accruing to the Authority;
(c)
all loans received by the Authority;
shall constitute the fund of the Authority;
(3)
[* * * * * * *]
[Sub-section (3) was deleted by Maharashtra 54 of 1977, Section 5.]
35.
Deposit of money in fund and operation thereof.
(1)
Except as otherwise directed by the State Government, all moneys forming part of the funds of the Authority shall be
deposited in the Reserve Bank of India or in such Scheduled Bank or invested in such securities as may be approved by
the State Government.
Explanation. - For the purposes of this section, the Reserved Bank of India means the Reserve Bank of India at
[Mumbai]
[This word was substituted for the word 'Bombay' by Maharashtra 25 of 1996, Section 2, and Schedule para (3).]
constituted under the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934, and a Scheduled Bank means a Bank included in the Second
Schedule to the said Act.
(2)
The fund of the Authority shall be operated upon by such officers as may be authorised by the Authority.
36.
Power of Authority to borrow.
(1)
The Authority may, from time to time with the previous sanction of the State Government and subject to the provisions of
this Act and to such conditions as may be prescribed in this behalf, borrow any sum required for the purpose of this Act.
(2)
The rules made by the State Government for the purposes of this section may empower the Authority to borrow by the
Page 18/128
----- PAGE 19 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
issue of debentures and to make arrangements with bankers.
(3)
All debentures issued by the Authority shall be in such form as the Authority with the sanction of the State Government,
may, from time to time, determine.
(4)
Every debenture shall be signed by the President and one other member of the Authority as the Authority may by order
specify in this behalf.
(5)
Loans borrowed and debentures issued under this section may be guaranteed by the State Government as to the
repayment of principle and the payment of interest at such rate as may be fixed by the State Government.
37.
Application of property, fund, etc.
- All property and fund of the Authority and all other assets belonging to, or vesting, in the Authority shall be held and
applied by it, subject to the provisions and for the purposes, of this Act.
38.
Subvention and loans to Authority.
(1)
Any Government or local authority (and every local authority is hereby authorised to do so) may, from time to time, make
subventions to the Authority for the purposes of this Act on such terms and conditions as the State Government may
determine.
(2)
Any Government may from time to time advance loans to the Authority on such terms and conditions not inconsistent
with the provisions of this Act, as that Government may determine.
39.
Accounts and audit.
(1)
The Authority shall cause to be maintained proper books of accounts and such other books as the rules may require,
and shall prepare in accordance with the rules an annual statement of accounts.
(2)
The Authority shall cause its accounts to be audited annually by such person and by such date in the next succeeding
year as the State Government may direct. The person so directed shall have the right to demand the production of
books, accounts and connected vouchers, documents and papers, and to inspect any of the offices of the Authority
including those of the Boards.
(3)
As soon as the accounts of the Authority have been audited, the Authority shall send a copy thereof with a copy of the
report of the auditor thereon to the State Government; and the Authority shall comply with such directions as the State
Government may, after perusal of the report of the auditor think fit to issue.
(4)
The accounts together with the report of the auditor thereon shall be laid by the State Government before each House of
the State Legislature as far as possible before the expiry of the year next succeeding the year to which they relate.
40.
Concurrent and special audit of accounts.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in section 39, there shall be a concurrent audit of the accounts of the Authority by
such person as it thinks fit. The State Government may also direct a special audit to be made by such person as it thinks
fit of the accounts of the Authority relating to any particular transaction or a class or series of transactions or to a
particular period.
(2)
Where an order is made under sub-section (1), the Authority shall present or cause to be presented for audit such
accounts and shall furnish to the person appointed under sub-section (1) such information as the said person may
require for the purpose of audit; and shall remedy or cause to be remedied the defects pointed out by such person,
Page 19/128
----- PAGE 20 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
unless they are conduced by the State Government.
Chapter V
Acquisition of Land and Disposal of Property of The Authority
41.
Power of State Government to acquire land.
(1)
Where, on any representation from the Authority or any Board it appears to the State Government that, in order to
enable the Authority to discharge any of its functions or to exercise any of its powers or to carry out any of its proposals
plans, or projects, it is necessary that any land should be acquired, the State Government may acquire the land by
publishing in the Official Gazette, a notification to the effect that the State Government has decided to acquire the land in
pursuance of this section:
Provided that, before publishing such notification, the State Government shall by notice published in the Official Gazette,
and served in the prescribed manner, call upon the owner of, or any other person who, in the opinion of that
Government, may be interested in, such land to show cause, why it should not be acquired and after considering the
cause, if any, shown by the owner or any other person interested in the land, the State Government may pass such
order as it thinks fit.
Provided further that, if the land proposed to be acquired falls within the Scheduled Areas then the State Government
shall before such acquisition and before resettling or rehabilitating of person affected consult, -
(i)
the Gram Sabha and the Panchayat concerned, if the land falls within the area of one Panchayat;
(ii)
concerned Gram Sabhas and the Panchayat Samiti, if the land falls within the area of more than one village in the Block
concerned;
(iii)
the concerned Gram Sabhas and the Zilla Parishad concerned, if the land falls within the jurisdiction of more than one
Blocks in the district concerned;]
such consultation shall be done in the manner as may be laid down by the state Government by issuing general or
special order issued in this behalf:
Provided that, the decision taken by the majority of the Gram Sabhas concerned by passing a resolution in the above
matter shall be binding on the concerned Panchayat Samiti or the Zilla Parishad, as the case may be.
Explanation. - For the purpose of these provisions,-
(i)
the expressions "Gram Sabha," "Panchayat" and "Scheduled Areas" shall have the meaning respectively assigned to
them in the Bombay Village Pachayat Act, 1958;
(ii)
the expressions "Panchayat Samiti" and "Zilla Parishad" shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in the
Maharashtra Zilla Parishads and Panchayat Samitis Act, 1961.
(2)
The acquisition of land for any purpose mentioned in sub-section (1) shall be deemed to be a public purpose.
(3)
Where notification aforesaid is published in the Official Gazette, the land shall, on and from the date on which the
notification is so published, vest absolutely in the State Government free from all encumbrances.
42.
Power of State Government to require person in possession of land to surrender or deliver possession thereof to State
Government.
(1)
Subject to the provisions of section 51, where any land is vested in the State Government under sub-section (3) of
section 41, the State Government may, by notice in writing, order any person who may be in possession of the land to
surrender or deliver possession thereof to the State Government or any person duly authorised by it in this behalf within
thirty days of the date of service of the notice.
(2)
Page 20/128
----- PAGE 21 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
If any person fails or refuses to comply with an order under sub-section (1) the State Government may take possession
of the land, and may, for that purpose use or cause to be used such force as may be reasonably necessary.
(3)
Where any land is taken possession of as aforesaid, the State Government shall make that land available to the
Authority for the purpose for which the land has been acquired and for discharging its functions, performing its duties
and exercising its powers.
43.
Right to receive amount for acquisition.
- Every person having any interest in any land acquired under this Chapter shall be entitled to receive from the State
Government an amount as provided hereafter in this Chapter.
Lands in Municipal Areas
44.
Basis for determination of amount for acquisition of lands in municipal areas.
(1)
Where any land including any building thereon is acquired and vested in the State Government under this Chapter and
such land is situated in any area within the jurisdiction of any Municipal Corporation or Municipal Council, the State
Government shall pay for such acquisition an amount which shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of
this Section.
(2)
Where the amount has been determined with the concurrence of the Authority by agreement between the State
Government and the persons to whom it is payable, it shall be determined and paid in accordance with such agreement.
(3)
Where no such agreement can be reached, the amount payable in respect of any land acquired shall be an amount
equal to one hundred times the net average monthly income actually derived from such rand, during the period of five
consecutive years immediately preceding the date of publication of the notification referred to in section 41 as may be
determined by the Land Acquisition Officer.
(4)
The net average monthly income referred to in sub-section (3) shall be calculated in the manner and in accordance with
the principles set out in the First Schedule.
(5)
The Land Acquisition Officer shall, after holding an inquiry in the prescribed manner, determine in accordance with the
provisions of sub-section (4) the net average monthly income actually derived from the land. The Land Acquisition
Officer shall then publish a notice in a conspicuous place on the land and serve it in the prescribed manner calling upon
the owner of the land and every person interested therein to intimate to him, before a date specified in the notice,
whether such owner or person agree to the net average monthly income actually derived from the land as determined by
the Land Acquisition Officer. If such owner or person does not agree, he may intimate to the Land Acquisition Officer
before the specified date what amount he claims to be such net average monthly income.
(6)
Any person, who does not agree to the net average monthly income as determined by the Land Acquisition Officer
under sub-section (5) and the amount for acquisition to be paid on that basis and claims a sum in excess of that amount
may prefer an appeal to the Tribunal, within thirty days from the date specified in the notice referred to in sub-section (5).
(7)
On appeal, the Tribunal shall, after hearing the appellant, determine the net average monthly income and the amount to
be paid on that basis and its determination shall be final and shall not be questioned in any court.
45.
Apportionment of amount for acquisition.
(1)
Where the owner of the land and the owner of the building thereon are different persons, or several persons claim to be
interested in the amount for acquisition determined under the last preceding section, the Land Acquisition Officer shall
determine the persons who in his opinion are entitled to receive the same and the sum payable to each of them.
(2)
Page 21/128
----- PAGE 22 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
If any dispute arises as to the appointment of the amount or any part thereof or as to the persons to whom the same or
any part thereof is payable, the Land Acquisition Officer may refer the dispute to the decision of the Tribunal; and the
Tribunal in deciding any such dispute shall follow the provisions of Part III of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894.
46.
Payment of amount for acquisition or deposit of same in court.
(1)
After the amount for acquisition has been determined, the Land Acquisition Officer shall, on behalf of the State
Government, tender payment of and pay the amount to the persons entitled thereto.
(2)
if the persons entitled to the amount do not consent to receive it, or if there be any dispute as to the title to receive the
same or as to the apportionment of it, the Land Acquisition Officer shall deposit the amount in Greater Bombay, in the
Bombay City Civil Court, and in any other municipal area in the Court of the District Judge, and that Court shall deal with
the amount so deposited in the manner laid down in sections 32 and 33 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894.
47.
Power of Land Acquisition Officer in relation to determination of amount for acquisition etc.
(1)
The Land Acquisition Officer may, for the purpose of determining the amount for acquisition or apportionment thereof, by
order require any person to furnish such relevant information in his possession as may be specified in the order.
(2)
The Land Acquisition Officer shall, while holding an inquiry under subsection (5) of section 44 of this Act have all the
powers of a civil court while trying a suit under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, in respect of the following matters,
(a)
summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person and examining him on oath;
(b)
requiring the discovery and production of any document;
(c)
receiving evidence on affidavit;
(d)
requisitioning any public record from any court or office;
(e)
issuing commissions for examination of witnesses.
48.
Payment of interest.
- When the amount for acquisition is not paid or deposited on or before taking possession of the land, the Land
Acquisition Officer on behalf of the State Government shall pay the amount determined with interest thereon, from the
date of taking possession until the amount is paid or deposited, at the rate of 4 per cent per annum for the first six
months, and thereafter at the rate of 9 per cent per annum.
49.
Appointment of Land Acquisition Officer.
- The State Government may, by Notification in the Official Gazette, appoint an officer who is holding or has held an
office, which in its opinion is not lower in rank than that a Deputy Collector or Assistant Director of Town Planning to be a
Land Acquisition Officer for the purposes of this Act, and one or more such officers may be appointed as may be
necessary.
Lands in Rural Areas
50.
Basis for determination of amount for acquisition of lands in rural areas and other procedure.
(1)
Where any land (including any building thereon) is acquired and vested in the State Government under this Chapter and
such land is situated in any area outside the Jurisdiction of any Municipal Corporation or Municipal Council (in this
Chapter referred to as "a rural area"), the State Government shall pay for such acquisition an amount, which shall be
determined in accordance with the provision of this section.
Page 22/128
----- PAGE 23 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
(2)
Where the amount has been determined, with the concurrence of the Authority, by agreement between the State
Government and the person to whom it is payable, it shall be determined and paid in accordance with such agreement,
(3)
Where no such agreement can be reached, the State Government shall refer the case to the Collector, who shall
determine the amount for acquisition in accordance with the principles for determining compensation laid down in the
Land Acquisition Act, 1894, and the provisions of that Act (including provisions for reference to Court and appeal) shall
apply thereto mutatis mutandis as if the and has been acquired and compensation had to be determined, apportioned
and paid under the provisions of that Act, subject to the modifications that reference in sections 23 and 24 of that Act, to
the date of publication, of the notification under section 4, sub-section (1) were references to the date on which the
notice under the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 41 of this Act is published, and the reference to the time or date of
the publication of the declaration under section 6 of that Act were references to the date of publication of the notification
referred to in sub-section (3) of section 41 of this Act in the Official Gazette.
Explanation. - In this section, "Collector" means the Collector of a District and includes any officer specially appointed by
the State Government or by the Commissioner to perform the functions of a Collector under the Land Acquisition Act,
1894.
Alternative Accommodation
51.
Alternative accommodation to occupiers of residential premises where any acquired building is to be demolished.
- Whereas any building acquired under this Chapter which is vested in the Authority is proposed to be demolished, it
shall be the duty of the Authority before evicting the occupiers, to allot such alternative accommodation, at such place
and of such nature and size, as the Authority may determine, only to those persons who are occupiers of residential
premises in the building, either as owner or tenant, and who are actually residing in the building at the time of their
eviction. If any occupier fails to accept and occupy the alternative accommodation allotted to him within 45 days from the
date of allotment the responsibility of the Authority to provide him with such accommodation shall cease. The decision of
the Authority as regards any matter contained in this section shall be final and shall not be questioned in any court.
Explanation. - In this section "building" means house or a tenement or tenements let or intended to he let or occupied
separately, but does not include any building which is unauthorised or which is a temporary building as defined in clause
(SB) of section 3 of [the Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act]
[These words were substituted for the words 'The Bombay Municipal Corporation Act' by Maharashtra 25 of 1996,
Section 2, Schedule pars (3).]
, with this modifications that the expression "Commissioner" in that clause shall include an officer or authority which is
competent to allow a temporary building to be built within his or its jurisdiction.
52.
Power to purchase or lease by agreement.
- The Authority may also enter into an agreement with any person for the acquisition from him by purchase, lease or
exchange, of any land which is needed for the purpose of any proposals, plan or project of the Authority or any interest
in such land or for compensating the owners of any such right in property in respect of any deprivation thereof or
interference therewith.
Betterment Charges
53.
Betterment charges.
(1)
Where for the purpose of any proposal, plan or project, any land in the area comprised therein which is not required for
the execution thereof will in the opinion of the Authority, be increased in value, the Authority may for the purposes of any
such proposal, plan or project in lieu of providing for acquisition of such land, declare that the betterment charges shall
be payable by the owner of the land or any person having an interest therein in respect of the increase in value of the
land resulting from the execution of such proposal, plan or project.
(2)
Such increase in value shall be the amount by which the value of the land on the completion of the execution of the
proposal, plan or project estimated as if the land were dear of the buildings exceeds the value of the land prior to the
Page 23/128
----- PAGE 24 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
execution of the proposal, plan or project estimated in like manner and the betterment charges shall be one-half of such
increase in value.
(3)
No betterment charges shall be payable by the Government in respect of any land which is the property of the
Government or is managed by any Government or by any Corporation (including a company or subsidiary company
thereof) owned or controlled by the State or by any local authority or any public institution in respect of any land
belonging to such authority or institution if and so as long as, such land is used for public, charitable or religious
purpose.
54.
Notice to Person liable for betterment charges.
(1)
The Authority shall give notice to any person who is the owner of or has interest in the land in respect of which the
betterment charges are to be levied and shall give such persons an opportunity to be heard.
(2)
After hearing such person, or if such person fails to appear after the expiry of the period within which such person is
required to appear before the Authority, the Authority shall proceed to assess the amount of betterment charges.
(3)
Where the assessment of betterment charges proposed by the Authority is accepted by the person concerned within the
period prescribed, the assessment shall be final.
(4)
If the persons concerned does not accept the assessment proposed by the Authority, the matter shall be referred to the
Tribunal.
(5)
The Tribunal shall, after holding an inquiry and after hearing the person concerned, assess the amount of the betterment
charges payable by the person.
55.
Agreement for payment of betterment charges.
(1)
Any person liable to pay betterment charges in respect of any land may at his option, instead of paying the same to the
Authority, execute an agreement with the Authority to leave the payment outstanding as a charge on his interest in the
land, subject to the payment in perpetuity of interest at such rate as may be prescribed.
(2)
Every payment due from any person in respect of betterment charges and every charge referred to in sub-section (1)
shall, notwithstanding anything contained in any other enactment and notwithstanding the execution of any mortgage or
charge, created either before or after the commencement of this Act, be the first charge upon the interest of such person
in such land.
56.
Recovery of betterment charges.
- All sums payable in respect of any land by any person in respect of betterment charges under section 53 or by any
person under an agreement under section 55 shall be recoverable on behalf of the Authority as an arrear of land
revenue on a certificate of an officer appointed by the State Government in this behalf.
Certain Provisions for Purposes of this Act
57.
Transfer to Authority for purposes of this Act land vested in Municipal Corporation, Municipal Council or Zilla Parishad.
(1)
Whenever any street, square or other land, or any part thereof, situated in any area within the limits of a Municipal
Corporation, Municipal Council or Zilla Parishad and vested in such Corporation, Council or Parishad is required for any
of the purposes of this Act, the Authority shall give notice accordingly to the Corporation, Council or Zilla Parishad, as
the case may be.
(2)
Where the Municipal Corporation, Municipal Council, Zilla Parishad concurs, such street, square or other land, or part
Page 24/128
----- PAGE 25 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
thereof shall vest in the Authority.
(3)
Where there is any dispute, the matter shall be referred to the State Government. The State Government shall, after
considering any representation, or after hearing any officer of the Municipal Corporation, Municipal Council or Zilla
Parishad concerned decide the matter. The decision of the State Government shall be final. If the State Government
decides that such street, square or lands or part thereof, shall vest in the Authority, it shall rest accordingly.
(4)
Nothing in this section shall affect the rights or powers of the Municipal Corporation, Municipal Council or Zilla Parishad
in or over any drain or water work in such street, square or lands or the rights or powers of any authority in respect of
any of its works or installations duly laid in such street, square or land under any law for the time being in force in the
State.
58.
Payment in respect of land vested in Authority.
(1)
Where any land vests in the Authority under section 57 and the Authority makes a declaration that such land shall be
retained by the Authority only until it revests in the Municipal Corporation, the Municipal Council or the Zilla Parishad as
part of a street or an open space under section 61, no amount shall be payable by the Authority to the Municipal
Corporation, the Municipal Council or the Zilla Parishad, as the case may be in respect of that land.
(2)
Where any land vests in the Authority under section 57 and no declaration is made under sub-section (1) in respect of
the land, the Authority shall pay to the Municipal Corporation; the Municipal Council or the Zilla Parishad, as the case
may be, an amount equal to the value of such land.
(3)
If, in any case where the Authority has made a declaration in respect of any land under sub-section (1), the Authority
retains or disposes of the land contrary to the terms of the declaration so that the land does not revest in the Municipal
Corporation, the Municipal Council or Zilla Parishad, as the case may be, the Authority shall pay to the Municipal
Corporation, the Municipal Council or the Zilla Parishad an amount in respect of such land in accordance with the
provisions of sub-section (2).
59.
Power of Authority to turn or close public street vested in it.
(1)
The Authority may turn, divert, discontinue the public use of, or permanently close, any public street vested in it or any
part thereof.
(2)
Whenever the Authority discontinue the public use of or permanently closes any public street vested in it or any part
thereof, it shall, as far as practicable, provide some other reasonable means of access to be substituted in lieu of the
use, by those entitled, of the street or part thereof, and pay a reasonable amount to every person who is entitled,
otherwise than as a mere member of the public to use such street or part as a means of access and has suffered
damage from such discontinuance or closing.
(3)
In determining the amount payable to any person under sub-section (2) the Authority shall make allowance for any
benefit accruing to him from the construction, provision or improvement of any other public street at or about the same
time that the public street or part thereof, on account of which the amount is paid, is discontinued or closed.
(4)
When any public street vested in the Authority is permanently closed under sub-section (1), the Authority may sell or
lease so much of the same as is no longer required...
60.
Reference to Tribunal in case of dispute under section 58 or 59.
- If there is any dispute as to whether any amount is payable under section 58 or as to the quantum of amount payable
under section 58 or section 59, as the case may be, the matter shall be referred to the Tribunal.
61.
Page 25/128
----- PAGE 26 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
Vesting in Municipal Corporation, Municipal Council or Zilla Parishad of streets laid out or altered an open space
provided by Authority under any proposal, plan or project under this Act.
(1)
Whenever the State Government is satisfied-
(a)
that any street laid out or altered by the Authority has been duly levelled, paved, metalled, flagged, channelled, severed,
and drained as required for any proposals, plans or projects included in the budget, and
(b)
that such lamps, lamp-posts and other apparatus as the Municipal Corporation, the Municipal Council or Zilla Parishad,
as the case may be, considers necessary for the lighting of such street and as ought to be provided by the Authority
have been so provided, and
(c)
that water and other sanitary conveniences have been duly provided in such street,
the State Government may declare the street to be a public street, and the street shall thereupon vest in the Municipal
Corporation, Municipal Council or Zilla Parishad, as the case may be, and shall hence forth be maintained, kept in
repair, lighted and cleaned by the Municipal Corporation, Municipal Council or Zilia Parishad.
(2)
Where any open space for purposes of ventilation or recreation has been provided by the Authority in executing any
proposals, plan or project under this Act, the Authority may at its option by resolution transfer such open space to the
local authority concerned on completion of the proposal, plan or project, and thereupon, such open space shall vest in,
and be maintained at the expense of the local authority:
Provided that, the local authority may require the Authority before any such open space is so transferred to enclose,
level, turf, drain and layout such space and provide footpaths therein, and if necessary, to provide lamps and other
apparatus for lighting it.
(3)
If any difference of opinion arises between the Authority and the Municipal Corporation, Municipal Council or Zilla
Parishad in respect of any matters referred to in the foregoing provisions of this section, the matter shall be referred to
the State Government, whose decision shall be final.
62.
Disputes regarding reconstitution of plots.
(1)
Where under any proposal, plan or project under this Act, any plots comprised in the area included therein are
reconstituted or any person is dispossessed, any person affected by such reconstitution or dispossession may apply to
the Authority for damages. The Authority may, after making such inquiry as it thinks fit, decide whether the applicant is
entitled to any damages, and if so to what extent. If the person is dissatisfied with the decision of the Authority in the
matter, he may refer the matter to the Tribunal.
(2)
The Tribunal shall, after making an inquiry, determine the amount of damages and direct the Authority to pay the same
to the person entitled thereto.
63.
Authority to assume management of requisitioned lands.
- The Authority shall, subject to the general control of the State Government, assume management of all such lands,
requisitioned or deemed to be requisitioned or continued to be subject to requisition, by or under the authority of the
State Government under the Bombay Land Requisition Act, 1948 or by or under any corresponding law for the time
being in force, as the State Government may direct.
64.
Power to dispose of property.
- Subject to any rules made by the State Government under this Act, the Authority may retain, lease, sell, exchange, or
otherwise dispose of, any land, any building or other property vesting in it and situate in the area comprised in any
proposal, plan or project permitted under this Act, in such manner as it thinks fit.
Chapter VI
Page 26/128
----- PAGE 27 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
Power to Evict Persons from Authority Premises and To Recover Dues
65.
Appointment of Competent Authority.
- The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint an officer, who is holding or has held an
office which in its opinion is not lower in rank than that of Deputy Collector or Civil Judge, to be the Competent Authority
for performing the functions of such authority under this Chapter in such areas, or in respect of such premises or class of
premises in any area, as may be specified in the notification; and more than one officer may be appointed as Competent
Authority in the same area in respect of different premises or different classes of premises.
66.
Power to evict certain persons from Authority premises.
(1)
If the Competent Authority is satisfied-
(a)
that the person authorised to occupy any Authority premises has-
(i)
not paid rent or compensation or amount lawfully due from him in respect of such premises for a period of more than two
months, or
(ii)
sub-let, without the previous permission of the Authority, the whole or any part of such premises, or
(iii)
committed, or is committing any act which is destructive or permanently injurious to such premises, or
(iv)
made, or is making, material addition to, or alteration in, such premises without the previous permission of the Authority,
or
(v)
otherwise acted in contravention of any of the terms, express or implied, under which he is authorised to occupy such
premises, or
(vi)
failed to vacate the premises required by the Authority for the purpose of implementing any plan or project for the sale of
tenements and to accept the alternative accommodation offered by the Authority;
(b)
that any person is an unauthorised occupation of any Authority premises, the Competent Authority may, for reasons to
be recorded in writing, by notice served (i) by post, or (ii) affixing a copy of it on the outer door or some other
conspicuous part of such premises, or (iii) in such other manner as may be prescribed, other that person, as well as any
other person, who may be in occupation of the whole or any part of the premises, to vacate the premises in
unauthorised occupation, within 24 hours of the date of service of notice, and in any other case within a period of seven
days of the date of such service.
(2)
Before an order under sub-section (1) is made against any person, the Competent Authority shall issue, in the manner
hereinafter provided a notice in writing calling upon all persons concerned to show cause within ten days why an order
of eviction should not be made.
The notice shall -
(a)
specify the grounds on which the order of eviction is proposed to be made; and
(b)
require all persons concerned, that is to say, all persons who are or may be in occupation of, or claim interest in, the
Authority premises, to show cause against the proposed order, on or before such date as is specified in the notice.
If such persons makes an application to the Competent Authority for the extension of the period specified in the notice,
such Authority may grant the same on deposit of one hundred rupees and on such terms as to payment and recovery of
the amount claimed in the notice, as such Authority thinks fit.
Any written statement put in by any person and documents produced in pursuance of the notice, shall be filed with the
Page 27/128
----- PAGE 28 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
record of the case, and such person shall be entitled to appear before the Competent Authority by advocate, attorney or
other legal practitioner.
The notice to be served under this sub-section shall be served in the manner provided for the service of a notice under
sub-section (1); and thereupon, the notice shall be deemed to have been duly given to all persons concerned.
(3)
If any person refuses or fails to comply with an order made under subsection (1), the Competent Authority may evict that
person and any other persons who obstructs him and takes possession of the premises, and may for that purpose use
such force as may be necessary.
(4)
The Competent Authority may, after giving ten clear days notice to the person from whom possession of the Authority
premises has been taken under subsection (3), and after publishing such notice in the prescribed manner, remove or
cause to be removed or disposed of by public auction, any property remaining on such premises. Such notice shall be
served in the manner provided for the service of a notice under sub-section (1).
(5)
Where the property is sold under sub-section (4), the sale proceeds shall, after deducting the expenses of sale, be paid
to such person or persons as may appear to the Competent Authority to be entitled to the same :
Provided that, where the Competent Authority is unable to decide as to the person or persons to whom the balance of
the amount is payable or as to the apportionment of the same, he shall refer such dispute to a civil court of competent
jurisdiction and the decision of the court thereon shall be final.
(6)
If a person, who has been ordered to vacate any premises under sub-clause (i) or (v) of clause (a) of sub-section (1),
within seven days of the date of service of the notice, pays to the Authority the rents or compensation or amount in
arrears or carries out or otherwise complies with the term contravened by him to the satisfaction of the Competent
Authority, such Authority shall, on such terms, if any (including the payment of any sum by way of damages or
compensation for the contravention aforesaid), in lieu of evicting such person under sub-section (3) cancel his order
made under sub-section (1) and thereupon, such person shall continue to hold the premises on the same terms on
which he held them immediately before such notice was served on him:
Provided that, if a person authorised to occupy the Authority premises fails to pay the arrears of rent, compensation or
amount for three times within a period of two consecutive years, he shall be liable to be evicted under the provisions of
this section.
Explanation I - For the purpose of this Chapter, the expression 'unauthorised occupation' in relation to any person
authorised to occupy any Authority premises includes the continuance of occupation by him or by any person claiming
through or under him of the premises after the authority under which he was allowed to occupy the premises has expired
or has been duly determined.
Explanation II.- For the purpose of this Chapter, the term rent, compensation or amount includes any payment to be
made by a person in respect of any premises taken by him from the Authority under hire-purchase agreement and also
any penalty [imposed such rate as may be prescribed]
[These words were substituted for the words 'which the Competent Authority may levy according to rules' by
Maharashtra 12 of 1989, Section 5.]
for the default in the payment of rent, compensation or amount. The amount of such penalty shall not exceed 10 per
cent, of such rent, compensation or amount.
(7)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Chapter including this section, if any person fails to vacate the premises
required by the Board for the purpose of demolition of building containing such premises which are unfit for human
habitation then, the Board may required the occupants thereof to vacate the premises within 24 hours of the date of
service of the notice; and at the same time allot them alternative accommodation in any building of the Authority at such
place as it thinks fit. The accommodation may not be in the same locality or of the same floor area as the premises
vacated by the occupiers. If any occupier fails to accept and occupy the alternative accommodation allotted to him within
the time specified by the Board the responsibility of the Board to provide him with any alternative accommodation shall
cease. Such occupier shall, however, have a right to re-occupy his premises in the building if a building is re-erected on
the land on which the demolished building stood.
Page 28/128
----- PAGE 29 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
(8)
Where an occupier does not vacate his premises, the Board may take or cause to be taken such steps and use or cause
to be used such, force as may be reasonably necessary for the purpose of getting the premises vacated.
(9)
The decision of the Board under sub-sections (7) and (8) shall be final and conclusive and shall not be called in question
in any court nor any injunction against the order of demolition or vacation of the premises shall be made by any court.
67.
Power to recover rent, compensation, amount or damages as arrears of land revenue.
(1)
Subject to any rules made by the State Government in this behalf, but without prejudice to the provisions of the last
preceding section, where any person is in arrears of rent, compensation or amount payable in respect of any Authority
premises, such officer as may be authorised by the Board may by notice served in the manner provided for service of
notice under sub-section (1) of section 66 order that person to pay the same within such period, not less than ten days
as may be specified in the notice. If such person refuses to pay the arrear of rent, compensation or amount within the
time specified in the notice, such arrears may be recovered as arrears of land revenue.
(2)
Where any person is in unauthorised occupation of any Authority premises, the Competent Authority may, in the manner
and having regard to the principles of assessment of damages provided for by the rules, assess, such damages on
account of the use and occupation of the premises as it may deem fit, and may by notice served in the manner referred
to in sub-section (1) order that person to pay the damages, within such time as may be specified in the notice. If any
person refuses or fails to pay the damages within the time specified in the notice, the damages may be recovered from
him as arrears of land revenue.
(3)
No order shall be made under sub-section (2) until after the issue of a notice in writing to the person calling upon him to
show cause, within fifteen days, why such order should not be made, and until his objections, if any, and any evidence
he may produce in support of the same, have been considered by the Competent Authority.
68.
Rent, compensation or amount to be recovered from deduction from salary or wages in certain cases.
(1)
Without prejudice to the provisions of section 66, any person who has been allotted any Authority premises may execute
an agreement in favour of his employer providing that the employer shall be competent to deduct from the salary or
wages payable to such person such amount as may be specified in the agreement and to pay the amount so deducted
to the Authority in satisfaction of the rent compensation or amount due by him in respect of the Authority premises
allotted to him.
(2)
On the execution of such agreement the employer shall, if so required by the authority, by requisition in writing make the
deduction of the amount specified in the requisition from the salary or wages of the employee specified in the requisition
in accordance with the agreement, and pay the amount so deducted to the Authority as if it were a part of the salary or
wages payable by the employer as required under the Payment of Wages Act, 1936 on the day on which the employer
makes payment.
69.
Competent Authority to have powers of civil courts.
- The Competent Authority shall, for the purpose of holding any inquiry under this Chapter, have the same powers as are
vested in a civil court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, when trying a suit, in respect of the following matters,
namely :-
(a)
summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person and examining him on oath;
(b)
requiring the discovery and production of documents;
(c)
any other matter which may be prescribed.
Page 29/128
----- PAGE 30 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
70.
Appeals
(1)
An appeal shall lie from every order of the Competent Authority made in respect of any Authority premises under section
66 or section 67 to an appellate officer whom the State Government may, by a notification in the Official Gazette,
appoint. The appellate officer shall be a person not below the rank of a Deputy Secretary to Government having judicial
experience or experience in the Legal Department of the State or [a person who has for at least ten years held any
judicial office,]
[These words were substituted for the words 'who has held judicial office not below the rank of District Judge' by
Maharashtra 29 of 1978, Section 2.]
who shall be specified for the purpose by the State Government in such notification.
(2)
The State Government may appoint one or more appellate officers for the whole or that part of the State in which this
Act is in force, or for such are therein as may be specified in the notification.
(3)
The period within which an appeal under sub-section (1) may be preferred shall -
(a)
in the case of an appeal from an order under section 66 be not later than 30 days from the date of the service of the
notice relating to the order under sub-section (1) of that section, and
(b)
in the case of an appeal from an order under section 67 be not later than 30 days from the date of the service of the
notice .relating to the order under sub-section (1) or (2) of that section, as the case may be :
Provided that, the appellate officer may entertain the appeal after the expiry of the said period of 30 days, if he is
satisfied that the appellant was prevented by sufficient cause from filing the appeal in time.
(4)
Where an appeal is preferred from an order of the Competent Authority, the appellate officer may stay the enforcement
of that order on payment of deposit of two hundred rupees for such period and on such conditions as he deems fit.
(5)
Every appeal under this section shall be disposed of by the appellate officer as expeditiously as possible.
(6)
The appellate officer may make regulations for regulating the practice and procedure, including the award of costs, the
levy of any process fee, filing fee, or copying or translation fees including provision for recovery thereof in the form of
court-fee stamps, the right of appearance before him, the place or places of his sitting, the disposal of any proceedings
before him notwithstanding that in the course thereof there has been a change in the appellate officer and generally for
the effective exercise of his powers and discharge of his functions under this Act.
(7)
The regulations made under this section shall be published in the Official Gazette.
71.
Bar of jurisdiction of civil courts.
- No civil court shall have jurisdiction to entertain any suit or proceeding in respect of the eviction of any person from any
Authority premises under this Chapter, or the recovery of the arrears of rent, compensation, amount or damages for use
and occupation of such premises, or in respect of any order made or to be made or any action taken or to be taken by
the Competent Authority or the appellate officer in the exercise of any power conferred by or under this Chapter, or to
grant any injunction in respect of such order or action.
72.
Penalty for obstructing lawful exercise of powers under this Chapter.
- Any person, who obstructs the lawful exercise of any powers conferred by or under this Chapter, shall, on conviction,
be punished with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees.
Chapter VII
Tribunal
73.
Page 30/128
----- PAGE 31 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
Tribunal
- The Tribunal constituted under clause (i) of section 2 of the Maharashtra Slum Areas (Improvement, Clearance and
Redevelopment) Act, 1971, shall also be the Tribunal for the purposes of hearing appeals and discharging other
functions of the Tribunal under this Act, and accordingly, the provisions of section 45 of that Act (including any
regulations made thereunder) and other provisions relating to the Tribunal under that Act (with such modifications, if any,
therein as circumstances may require) shall also apply to, and in relation to, such Tribunal for the purposes of this Act.
Chapter VIII
Repairs and Reconstruction of Dilapidated Buildings
74.
Board for purposes of this Chapter.
- [The Mumbai Repairs and Reconstruction Board]
[These words were substituted for the words 'The Bombay Repairs and Reconstruction Board' by Maharashtra 25 of
1996, Section 2, and Schedule pars (3).]
established under section 18 of this Act shall be the Board for the purposes of carrying out the purposes of this Chapter.
75.
Board to exercise power and perform duties subject to the superintendence, direction and control of Authority.
- The Board shall exercise its powers and perform its duties and functions under this Chapter, subject to the
superintendence, direction and control of the Authority.
76.
Duties relating to repairs and reconstruction of dilapidated buildings.
- Subject to the provisions of this Chapter, it shall be the duty of the Board-
(a)
to undertake and carry out structural repairs to buildings, in such order of priority as the Board, having regard to the
exigencies of the case and availability of resources, considers necessary, without recovering any expenses thereof from
the owners or occupiers of such buildings;
(b)
to provide temporary or alternative accommodation to the occupiers of any such building, when repairs thereto are
undertaken, or a building collapses;
(c)
to undertake, from time to time, the work of ordinary and tenantable repairs in respect of all premises placed at the
disposal of the Board;
(d)
to move the State Government to acquire old and dilapidated buildings and which are, in the opinion of the Board,
beyond repairs; and to reconstruct or to get reconstructed new buildings thereon for the purpose of housing as many
occupiers of those properties as possible, and for providing alternative accommodation to other affected occupiers;
(e)
to move the State Government to acquire old and dilapidated buildings and which were once structurally repaired by the
Board, but in respect of which further structural repairs are not, in the opinion of the Board possible or economical, and
to reconstruct or to get reconstructed (on demolishing existing buildings) new buildings thereon for the purpose of
housing as many occupiers of those properties as possible, and for providing alternative accommodation to other
affected occupiers;
(f)
having regard to the exigencies of the case and availability of resources, to construct or to get constructed through an
approved agency, transit camps with a view to providing temporary accommodation to persons affected by house
collapse, fire, torrential rain or tempest in its area of operation;
(g)
to take action for demolition of dangerous and dilapidated buildings or portions thereof, which are not capable of being
repaired at reasonable expense, and thereby save human lives;
(h)
with the prior approval of the Authority, to do all other things to facilitate the carrying out its powers, duties and functions
provided by or under this Act.
Page 31/128
----- PAGE 32 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
77.
Special Powers of Board.
- The Board, in the exercise of its powers, performance of its duties and discharge of its functions under this Chapter
may-
(a)
authorise any person, by general or special order, to enter into or upon and building or land with or without assistance of
workmen for making any inquiry, inspection, survey, measurement, valuation or taking levels of such building or land or
for carrying out any structural repairs or to execute any work which is authorised by or under this Act, or which it is
necessary to execute for any of the purposes or in pursuance of any of the provisions of this Act or of any rule or
regulation made thereunder
Provided that, before exercising such powers, so far as may be compatible with the exigencies of the purpose for which
the entry is to be made, reasonable notice shall be given to the owner and occupiers, and the power shall be exercised
as far as possible in their presence or in the presence of their representatives, and due regard shall be had to the social
and religious usages of the owner or occupiers;
(b)
cause any building proposed to be structurally repaired or reconstructed or demolished to be vacated if so considered
necessary, within a specified period, and take or cause to be taken such steps and use or cause to be used such force
as may be reasonably necessary therefor.
Where any such building or part thereof is caused to be vacated, the Board shall allot to the occupiers who are
dishoused or required to vacate their premises temporary accommodation in any building maintained by the Authority at
such place and to such extent as it deems fit; and the relevant provisions of this Chapter shall mutatis mutandis apply to
such occupiers.
78.
Penalty for contravening section 77.
- Any person who obstructs the entry of a person authorised under section 77 to enter upon any building or land or in the
performance or execution by such person of his duty, or of any work which he is authorised or required to do, or molests
such person in any way after such entry, or fails to vacate any building or to remove therefrom any belongings within the
period specified in that behalf shall, on conviction, be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three
months, or with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees, or with both.
79.
Power of Board to undertake building repairs, building reconstruction and occupiers housing and rehabilitation schemes.
(1)
The Authority may, on such terms and conditions as it may think fit to impose, entrust to the Board the framing and
execution of schemes for building repairs or for reconstruction of buildings or for housing and rehabilitation of, dishoused
occupiers, whether provided by this Act or not, and the Board shall thereupon undertake the framing and execution of
such schemes as if it had been provided for by this Act.
(2)
The Board may, on such terms and conditions as may be agreed upon and with the previous approval of the Authority-
(a)
handover the execution under its own supervision of any, building repairs scheme, building reconstruction scheme, or
dishoused occupier's housing scheme to a Municipal Corporation or to a co-operative society or to any other agency
recognised for the purpose by the Board, as it may deem necessary, and
(b)
transfer by sale, exchange or otherwise in any manner whatsoever any new building constructed on any land acquired
under this Chapter to any cooperative society, if it is formed by all the occupiers, or to apartment owners for the
purposes of the Maharashtra Apartment Ownership Act, 1970 (the apartment owners being all such occupiers).
80.
Where any building is repaired, old building material which is replaced to become property of Authority in exchange for
new material provided and provision for compensation in suitable cases.
- Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in force, but subject to the provisions of sub-section
(2), where any structural repairs of a building or a part thereof are carried out by the Board under the provisions of this
Page 32/128
----- PAGE 33 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
Act the building material, debris and other things of the old building (which are replaced by the Board by the like material
or different material) shall, on such replacement, be deemed to have become the property of the Authority in exchange
for the new material so provided by the Board; and it shall be lawful for the Board to remove or cause to be removed
such old building material, debris and other things and to sell or otherwise dispose of that material, debris and things, in
such manner as it deems fit.
(2)
As soon as possible after such repairs are carried out, the Board shall give notice to the owner that the material, debris
and things aforesaid have become the property of the Authority and that if the owner claims that the value of the said
material, debris and things was more than the amount of the expenditure incurred by the Board on such repairs, he may
submit his claim for compensation, with the necessary particulars to the Board, within thirty days from the date of receipt
of such notice. Where any such claim is made, the Board shall, after holding such enquiry as it deems fit and giving a
reasonable opportunity to the owner of being heard, decide the claims, and may either reject the claim or accept it.
Where the Board accepts the claim, the Board shall make an order for payment to the owner as compensation an
amount equal to the difference between the value of the building material, debris and other things of the old buildings as
estimated by it and the amount of the expenditure incurred by the Board on the structural repairs referred to in
sub-section (1).
81.
Use of property assigned or entrusted by Government, Municipal Corporation.
The State Government or the [Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai]
[These words were substituted for the original, by Maharashtra 25 of 1996, Section 2, and Schedule para (3).]
(hereinafter referred to as ["the Mumbai Corporation"]
[These words were substituted for the original, by Maharashtra 25 of 1996, Section 2, and Schedule para (3).]
may assign or entrust to the Board on behalf of the Authority any property, whether moveable or immoveable, for sue by
the Board for the purposes of this Chapter, on such terms and conditions as may be agreed upon by the Authority. It
shall be the duty of the Board to use such property for the purpose for which it is assigned or entrusted.
[Mumbai Building Repairs and Reconstruction Cess]
[This heading was changed by Maharashtra 25 of 1996, Section 2 and Schedule para (3).]
82.
Levy and collection of [Mumbai Building Repairs and Reconstruction Cess.]
[This heading was changed by Maharashtra 25 of 1996, Section 2 and Schedule para (3).]
[Proviso added by Maharashtra 46 of 1997 (w.e.f. 29.12 1997).]
(1) For the purpose of this Chapter but subject to the provisions of section 83, there shall be levied and paid to the State
Government, from such date as may be appointed by the State Government, by notification in the Official Gazette, a tax
on lands and buildings called the [Mumbai Building Repairs and Reconstruction Cess]
[This heading was changed by Maharashtra 25 of 1996, Section 2 and Schedule para (3).]
(in this Chapter referred to as "the cess"), at the rate of so many percentum of the rateable value of the concerned
building or land or part thereof as its provided therefor under the Second Schedule to this Act.
[*********]
[The proviso was deleted with effect from 1st October 1980 by Maharashtra 21 of 1980, Section 2.]
(2)
Subject to the provisions of this Chapter, the cess shall be collected by the [Mumbai Corporation]
[These words were changed by Maharashtra 25 of 1996, section 2, Schedule para (3).]
in the same manner in which the property tax is collected under the [Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act]
[These words were changed by Maharashtra 25 of 1996, section 2, Schedule para (3).]
(hereinafter in this Chapter referred to as "the Corporation Act").
(3)
The Municipal Commissioner shall recover the amount of the cess levied under sub-section (1) by an addition to the
general tax levied and collected under the Corporation Act. Every addition to the general tax made under this section
shall be recovered by the Municipal Commissioner form each person liable therefore in the same manner as the general
tax due from him. The. Municipal Commissioner may, in respect of the cess due, prepare separate bill for such period or
periods and in such form or forms and serve them in such manner as he may determine. Where the cess is primarily
Page 33/128
----- PAGE 34 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
leviable from the owner, the instalment of the cess due for any half year shall be recoverable from him in arrears with the
instalment of the general tax due from the next half year, and where such owner is not able to recover any amount of
increase in the rent from any occupier as permitted under sub-section (4) of this section, he shall, subject to the
provisions of sub-sections (5) and (6), be entitled to withhold payment of that amount till it is recovered from the
occupier. The provisions of sections 147 and 148 of the Corporation Act, shall apply to the cess, as if it were part of the
general tax levied under that Act.
(4)
Where an owner is required to pay to the [Mumbai Corporation]
[These words were changed by Maharashtra 25 of 1996 schedule para (3).]
in respect of any land or building the cess levied under this section, the share of the owner shall be 10 per cent. of the
rateable value of the land or building, and he shall be entitled to recover the remaining amount of the cess levied by
making a proportionate increase in the rent of the various premises in the building, in the same manner as if there was
an increase in the general tax; and such increase in rent shall not be deemed to be an increase for the purposes of
section 7 of the Rent Act, or for the purposes of the Corporation Act. Where the rent of any premises in a building is
payable by the month, if such rent or increases are in arrears for a period of six months or more, the owner shall be
entitled to the recovery of possession of the premises under section 12 of the Rent Act.
(5)
If the owner -
(a)
fails to pay to the [Mumbai Corporation]
[These words were changed by Maharashtra 25 of 1996 schedule para (3).]
his share of the cess; or
(b)
fails to pay to the [Mumbai Corporation]
[These words were changed by Maharashtra 25 of 1996 schedule para (3).]
any portion of the cess as is due from any occupier as provided in sub-section (4) after having recovered the same from
the occupier; or
(c)
does not within a reasonable time institute a suit, for recovery of possession of the premises, or report to the Municipal
Commissioner the name of the occupier, the premises in his possession and the amount of the cess due from him, as
and when any occupier is in arrears for payment of the portion of the cess due from him for a period of six months or
more,
the Municipal Commissioner shall be entitled to recover from the owner the owner's or occupier's share of the cess, or
both, as the case may be, in the same manner in which the arrears of property tax are recovered under the provision of
the Corporation Act, [and shall also be entitled to impose a penalty as provided in section 207A of the Corporation Act,
not exceeding fifteen per centum of the amount of cess due from the owner or occupier,]
[This portion was inserted by Maharashtra 12 of 1989, Section 6.]
Explanation. - For the purposes of this sub-section "reasonable time" means a period of three months from the date
when any occupier is in arrears for a period of six months in payment of the portion of the cess payable by him to the
owner under sub-section (4).
(6)
On receipt of a report from the owner under the last preceding sub-section or otherwise, when any occupier is in arrear
in payment of the portion of the cess due from him, the Municipal Commissioner may recover from the occupier the due
amount (whether it has remained due for less than one year or more) as if it were an arrear of tax due under the
Corporation Act.
(7)
Whether the Municipal Commissioner has under section 175 of the Corporation Act refunded two-thirds of the amount of
general tax paid in respect of any property or part thereof for any period, the Municipal Commissioner shall, under
intimation to the Board, also refund two-thirds of the amount of cess if paid in respect of that property or part thereof for
the same period and if the cess is not paid reduce the demand for cess to one-third of the amount of cess payable for
that, period.
Page 34/128
----- PAGE 35 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
(8)
Notwithstanding anything contained in any law and notwithstanding any rights arising out of any contract or otherwise
howsoever, any sum due as cess in respect of any land or building shall, subject to prior payment of the land revenue
and the education cess and penalty levied under the Maharashtra Education and Employment Guarantee (Cess) Act,
1962 (if any) thereon, due to the State Government, be a first charge,-
(a)
in the case of any land or building held immediately from the Government upon the interest in such land or building of
the person liable to pay the cess, and upon the goods and other moveable property, if any, found within or upon such
land or building and belonging to such person; and
(b)
in the case of any other land or building, upon such land or building, and upon the goods and other moveable property, if
any found within or upon such land or building and belonging to the person liable to pay the cess.
83.
Exemption of certain buildings and lands from payment of cess.
(1)
The following lands and buildings shall be exempt from payment of the cess, that is to say,-
(a)
lands and buildings vesting in, or leased to, the Central Government;
(b)
lands, and building vesting in, or leased to, the State Government or requisitioned by the State Government, but not
those lands and buildings where the land vesting in or leased to the State Government is given on lease and the building
erected thereon belongs to any other person, and also not those lands and buildings where the land and building
thereon vesting in or leased to the State Government are given on lease to any other person;
(c)
lands and buildings vesting in, or leased to, the [Mumbai Corporation]
[These words were changed by Maharashtra 25 of 1996 schedule para (3).]
, but not those properties where the land vesting in or leased to the [Mumbai Corporation]
[These words were changed by Maharashtra 25 of 1996 schedule para (3).]
is given on lease and the building erected thereon belongs to any other person and also not those properties where the
land and building thereon vesting in or leased to the [Mumbai Corporation]
[These words were changed by Maharashtra 25 of 1996 schedule para (3).]
are given on lease to any other person;
(d)
lands and buildings vesting in, or leased to, the Authority;
(e)
lands and buildings vesting in or leased to the Trustees of the Port of Bombay, and not used or intended to be used for
the purpose of profit;
(f)
lands and buildings vesting in, or leased to, a public trust registered under the Bombay Public Trusts Act, 1950, and,
exclusively occupied for public worship or for educational purposes;
(g)
lands and buildings vesting in, or leased to, a co-operative housing society:
Provided that, any of these buildings shall be entitled to this exemption only if more than one-half of the total number of
tenements therein are occupied by members of that society;
(h)
such lands and buildings of any Diplomatic or Consular Mission of a foreign State as are, by general or special orders,
specified by Government under clause (c) of sub-section (1) of section 143 of the Corporation Act;
(i)
buildings exclusively in the occupation of the owner;
(j)
buildings exclusively used for non-residential purposes;
Page 35/128
----- PAGE 36 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
(k)
residential buildings exclusively occupied on leave and licence basis;
(l)
buildings occupied or used partly for one and partly for any other purpose or purposes specified in clause (i), (j) or (k) :
Provided that no part or parts, thereof is or are occupied or used for any purpose not specified in any of the said
clauses;
(m)
all open lands which are not built upon;
(n)
buildings erected or which may be erected in an area, after the date on which the Bombay Building Repairs and
Reconstruction Board Act, 1969, came into force in such area;
(o)
any lands and buildings exempted from the payment of the cess before the appointed day under clause (m) of
sub-section (1) of section 28 of the Act referred to in clause (n).
(p)
[ building which is subjected to repairs amounting to reconstruction as certified by Mumbai Corporation]
[Clause '(P)' was added by Maharashtra 16 of 1998, Section 2(a) (w.e.f. 15-5-1998.)]
;
(2)
[* * *]
[Sub-Section (2) was deleted by Maharashtra 16 of 1998, Section 2 (b), (w.e.f 15-5-1998.)]
Explanation. - In this section "building" means building as a whole and not any part thereof or premises therein taken
separately.
84.
Assessment book maintained under Corporation Act to contain entries showing categories to which buildings liable to
cess belong and other particulars.
(1)
For the purpose of assessing the amount of cess leviable under this Chapter, the Municipal Commissioner shall, in a
Schedule appended to the assessment book maintained by him under section 156 of the Corporation Act (which shall be
deemed to be a part of such assessment book) cause additional entries to be made showing the Category to which
every property on which the cess is leviable belongs and such other particulars as he deems necessary.
Where a building is erected before the 1st day of September 1940, the building shall be classified as belonging to
Category A.
Where a building is erected between the period from the 1st day of September 1940 to 31st day of December 1950
(both inclusive), the building shall be classified as belonging to Category B.
Where a building comprised in any property is erected between the period from the 1st day of January, 1951, to the day
immediately preceding the date on which the provisions of the Bombay Building Repairs and Reconstruction Board Act,
1969 are brought into force in the area in which the building is situated, the building shall be classified as belonging to
Category. C.
Where a floor or any part of a building is constructed subsequently, the date of construction, area and other description
of such floor or part shall be shown separately.
(2)
Where additional entries regarding any land or building in existence in any area on the date on which this Chapter
comes into force are made for the first time, the Municipal Commissioner shall give individual notice thereof to the
person primarily liable for the payment of the property taxes in the manner laid down in sections 483 to 485-A (both
inclusive) of the Corporation Act and also public notice thereof in the manner laid down in section 160 of that Act and of
the place where the word assessment book so amended, or a copy of it, may be inspected. When the first public notice
is given, and whenever any such notice is given subsequently under the said section 160, the provisions of sections
161, 162, 163, 164 and 165 as modified for the purpose of this Chapter by sub-section (3) of this section, and of
sections 166 and 167 of the Corporation Act shall, so far as may be, apply to such additional entries as they apply to the
entry showing the amount of rateable value only other entries relating to any property entered in the assessment book,
Page 36/128
----- PAGE 37 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
of which notice is given by the Municipal Commissioner.
(3)
In applying the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 165 of the Corporation Act, for the purposes of sub-section (2) of
this section, for the words "the Commissioner" the words and figures "the Commissioner in consultation with an
Engineer of the Corporation and an Engineer of the Authority established under the Maharashtra Housing and Area
Development Act, 1976", shall be deemed to be substituted.
85.
[Mumbai Corporation to credit cess amount to Government. - Within a period of fifteen days from the date of recovery of
the cess, the amount so recovered shall, after deducting therefrom the amount equal to five per cent of the amount of
cess recovered by it, be paid by the Mumbai Corporation to the State Government.]
[Section 85 was substituted by Maharashtra 16 of 1998, Section 3, (w.e.f. 15-5-1998.)]
86.
Mumbai Building Repairs and Reconstruction Fund.
(1)
The proceeds of the cess collected and paid to the State Government by the Bombay Corporation in pursuance of the
provisions of the last preceding section shall first be credited to the Consolidated Fund of the State; and, after deducting
the rebate payable to the [Mumbai Corporation]
[These words were Substituted for the original by Maharashtra 25 of 1996, Section 2, Schedule para (3).]
for the cost of collection, the remaining amount shall, under appropriation duly made by law in this behalf, be transferred
to the fund of the Authority. There shall, however, be created a separate fund called [the Mumbai Building Repairs and
Reconstruction Fund]
[These words were Substituted for the original by Maharashtra 25 of 1996, Section 2, Schedule para (3).]
(in this Chapter referred to as "the Repairs Fund") and the amount so transferred to the fund of the Authority shall be
withdrawn therefrom and transferred to such Repairs Fund.
(2)
The amount transferred to the Repairs Fund under sub-section (1) shall be charged on the Consolidated Fund of the
State.
(3)
The amount in the Repairs Fund shall be placed by the Authority at the disposal of the Board for being expended for the
purposes of this Chapter. The State Government may make rules regulating all matters connected with the Repairs
Fund, including the manner in which that Fund shall be maintained, operated and expended.
87.
Default of [Mumbai Corporation]
[These words were Substituted for the original by Maharashtra 25 of 1996, Section 2, Schedule para (3).]
in collecting or paying cess.
(1)
If the [Mumbai Corporation]
[These words were Substituted for the original by Maharashtra 25 of 1996, Section 2, Schedule para (3).]
makes default in the collection or payment to the State Government of any sums due in respect of the cess, the State
Government may, after holding such inquiry as it thinks fit, fix a period of the collection or payment of such sum.
(2)
If the collection or payment of the sum is not made within the period so fixed, the State Government may,
notwithstanding anything contained in any law relating to the funds vesting in the [Mumbai Corporation]
[These words were Substituted for the original by Maharashtra 25 of 1996, Section 2, Schedule para (3).]
or any other law for the time being in force, direct any bank in which any moneys of the [Mumbai Corporation]
[These words were Substituted for the original by Maharashtra 25 of 1996, Section 2, Schedule para (3).]
are deposited or the person in charge of the Government Treasury or of any other place of security in which the moneys
of the [Mumbai Corporation]
[These words were Substituted for the original by Maharashtra 25 of 1996, Section 2, Schedule para (3).]
are deposited to pay such sum from such moneys as may be standing to the credit of the [Mumbai Corporation]
[These words were Substituted for the original by Maharashtra 25 of 1996, Section 2, Schedule para (3).]
Page 37/128
----- PAGE 38 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
in such bank or, as the case may be, in the hands of such person or as may from time to time be received from or on
behalf of the [Mumbai Corporation]
[These words were Substituted for the original by Maharashtra 25 of 1996, Section 2, Schedule para (3).]
by way of deposit by such bank or person; and such bank or person shall be bound to obey such order.
(3)
Every payment made pursuant to an order under sub-section (2) shall be a sufficient discharge to such bank or person
from all liability to the [Mumbai Corporation]
[These words were Substituted for the original by Maharashtra 25 of 1996, Section 2, Schedule para (3).]
in respect of any sums so paid by it or him out of the moneys of the [Mumbai Corporation]
[These words were Substituted for the original by Maharashtra 25 of 1996, Section 2, Schedule para (3).]
so deposited with such bank or person.
Structural Repairs
88.
Board to undertake structural repairs to buildings which are in ruinous condition and likely to deteriorate and fall.
(1)
Subject to the other provisions of this Chapter, where the Board on consideration of the information given by the
Municipal Commissioner, or a report of its officer authorised for the purpose, or other information in its possession, is
satisfied that any building, which is occupied by persons, is in such a ruinous or dangerous condition, that it is
imminently likely to fall unless structural repairs which will render it fit and safe for habitation, are urgently done, then in
such cases, the Board shall, subject to the provisions of sub-section (3), undertake such repairs to that building.
(2)
The Board may prepare a list of such buildings setting out the order of priority or urgency in respect of which structural
repairs are necessary, and may undertake simultaneously or in such order of priority the structural repairs according to
the exigencies of the case and its resources.
(3)
[ If the Board is of opinion that-] [[Section 6 of the Maharashtra 21 of 1980 reads as under-
6. Adjustment of payments made by occupiers for excess cost before 1st October 1980.
(1)
If on the date of commencement of this Act,'the Board has already undertaken structural repairs to any building, or is
likely to undertake such repairs to any building before the 1st October 1980, the occupiers may by application in writing
intimate their option on or before the 31st March 1981 whether such repairs should be carried out at the cost of the
Board not exceeding two hundred rupees per square metre, instead of not exceeding one hundred and twenty rupees
per square metre.
(2)
On receipt of such intimation, the Board shall be-calculate the excess cost, if any, to be paid to the Board by the
occupiers. If the amount already paid by the occupiers is more than the excess cost thus re-calculated, surplus amount
with the Board shall be refunded to the occupiers but the occupiers shall be liable from the 1st 'October 1980 to revised
rate of cess applicable when the Board contributes towards the cost of the repairs at the rate exceeding one hundred
and twenty rupees but not exceeding two hundred rupees per square metre.]]
(a)
the cost of structural repairs to [a building, per square metre, will exceed such amount, as may be specified by the State
Government, by notification in the Official Gazette, to be the structural repairs cost per square metre]
[These words were substituted for the words 'a building will exceed one thousand two hundred rupees per Square metre'
by Maharashtra Act 31 of 2008, Section 2(a), w.e.f. 29-8-2008.]
, or
(b)
the cost of structural repairs to [a building, per square metre, will exceed the amount specified under clause (a)]
[These words were substituted for the words 'a building will exceed one thousand two hundred rupees per Square metre'
by Maharashtra Act 31 of 2008, Section 2(a), w.e.f. 29-8-2008.]
, but the size of the land on which such building is standing is such that for some reason or the other it would not be
possible or economical to erect any new building thereon and there is an adjoining building but the cost of structural
Page 38/128
----- PAGE 39 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
repairs to [such building, per square metre, does not exceed the amount specified under clause (a)]
[These words were substituted by Maharashtra Act 31 of 2008, Section 2(b)(ii), w.e.f. 29-8-2008.]
.
then in cases falling under clause (a) or clause (b) the Board, notwithstanding anything contained in this Chapter, may
not consider such building or buildings for repairs and may issue a certificate to that effect to the owner or owners
thereof, as the case may be, fix a copy of the relevant certificate in some conspicuous part of the building or buildings for
the information of the occupiers and proceed to take action as provided in this Chapter:
Provided that, in cases of special hardship, the Board may, on such terms and conditions as it may deem fit to impose,
consider a building for structural repairs even if the cost of such repairs is likely to exceed the limit aforesaid:
Provided further that, where in any case the occupiers of a building undertake that they shall bear the cost of such
repairs which. are in excess of [the amount specified under clause (a)]
[These words were substituted by Maharashtra Act 31 of 2008, Section 2(b)(ii), w.e.f. 29-8-2008.]
and abide by such terms and conditions for payment of the excess cost to the Board as it may think fit to impose, the
Board may carry out structural repairs to such building.
(4)
The Municipal Commissioner shall, from time to time, send to the Board, full particulars of the buildings which are in a
ruinous or dangerous condition and the condition of which is such that they are likely to fall if structural repairs are not
urgently undertaken or in respect of which he has served notice under section 354 of the Corporation Act, but the same
have not been complied with.
89.
Procedure before undertaking structural repairs.
(1)
Where the Board is satisfied under section 88 that structural repairs are necessary to a building, the Board shall give the
owner thereof a notice of not less than fifteen days, informing that the Board intends to carry out such repairs on and
from a date specified in the notice, being a date which shall be after the expiry of the period specified in the notice, and
asking him to submit objections or suggestions, if any, thereto before the time specified in the notice.
(2)
The notice shall also require the owner to furnish to the Board a statement in writing signed by the owner stating therein
the names of all occupiers of the building known to him from his record, the approximate area and location of the
premises in occupation of each occupier and the rent, compensation or amount (including permitted increases, if any),
charged therefor.
(3)
A copy of such notice shall also be affixed in conspicuous part of the building to which it relates and also published by
proclamation or near such building accompanied by a beat of drum for the information of the occupiers thereof and for
giving them an opportunity to submit objections or suggestions, if any.
(4)
On such affixation and publication of the notice, the owner, occupiers and all other persons interested in such building
shall be deemed to have been duly informed of the matters and contents stated in the notice.
(5)
After considering the objections and suggestions received within the time aforesaid, the Board may decide to carry the
repairs with or without modification or may postpone the repairs for a certain period, or may cancel the intention to
repair.
(6)
Where the Board has reason to believe that the building is immediately dangerous for habitation, the notice may be
returnable within 24 hours from the service thereof.
(7)
The Board may, before giving any such notice or before the period of any such notice has expired, take such temporary
measures as it thinks fit to prevent danger to, or from, the said buildings.
(8)
Any owner who refuses to furnish a statement as required by sub-section (1) or intentionally furnishes a statement which
is false in any material particular shall, on conviction, be punished with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees.
Page 39/128
----- PAGE 40 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
90.
Temporary accommodation pending structural repairs.
(1)
Where the Board, before undertaking structural repairs to any building is of the opinion that all or any of the occupiers
thereof should temporarily vacate their premises till the repairs are completed, the Board shall give them notice to
vacate by a date or dates specified in the notice, and allot temporary accommodation to such occupiers in any buildings
maintained by the Authority for such purpose, at such places and to such extent as it deems fit.
(2)
Such temporary accommodation may not be in the same locality or of the same floor area as the premises vacated by
the occupiers.
(3)
If any occupier fails to accept and occupy the accommodation allotted to him within one month from the date of
allotment, the responsibility of the Board to provide him with any accommodation shall cease.
(4)
Subject to the next succeeding sub-sections, such occupier shall, however, have a right to reoccupy his premises in the
building after it is repaired.
(5)
The use and occupation of the temporary accommodation allotted to an occupier shall be free of charge, but shall be
subject to [the payment of such service charges]
[These words shall and shall be deemed to have been inserted with effect from the 1st day of April 1985 by Maharashtra
12 of 1989, section 8.]
and such other terms and conditions as the Board may from time to time determine.
(6)
The occupier shall, on accepting the accommodation allotted to him, continue to pay the owner the rent (including
permitted increase, if any) in respect of the premises vacated by the occupier.
(7)
Where an occupier does not accept the accommodation allotted by the Board, such occupier shall, nevertheless tie
liable to continue pay to the owner the rent (including permitted increase, if any), of the premises vacated by him, unless
by giving proper notice to the owner, he surrenders his tenancy or other right.
(8)
The occupier, whether he accepts the accommodation or makes his own arrangement, shall also be liable, until his
tenancy continues, to pay to the owner his proportionate contribution for the cess as if he had not temporarily vacated
the premises and shall be liable for all the consequences if he fails so to pay.
(9)
Where an occupier does not vacate his premises, the Board may take or cause to be taken such steps and use or cause
to be used such force as may be reasonably necessary for the purpose of getting the premises vacated.
(10)
The Board may, after giving fifteen clear days' notice to the occupiers who were required to vacate the premises under
sub-section (9) and affixing a copy thereof on or near the premises, in some conspicuous place, remove or cause to be
removed or dispose of by public auction any property remaining in such premises.
(11)
Where the property is sold under sub-section (10), the sale proceeds shall, after deducting the expenses of sale, be paid
to such person or persons as may be entitled to the same :
Provided that, where the Board is unable to decide as to the person or persons to whom the balance of the amount is
payable or as to the apportionment of the same, it shall refer such dispute to a civil court of competent jurisdiction, and
the decision of the court shall be final.
(12)
Where the work of carrying out structural repairs to any building is nearing completion or is completed, the Board shall
give notice to the occupiers concerned by affixing it in some conspicuous part of the building and by sending it by post to
the address which may have been registered with the Board by any occupier and in such other manner as may be laid
down in the regulations, that the building is likely to be or ready for re-occupation from a date specified in the notice and
Page 40/128
----- PAGE 41 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
that the occupiers should re-occupy their respective premises in such building within a period of one month from such
date.
(13)
If an occupier fails to re-occupy his premises within such period of one month, his tenancy or other right in respect of
such premises shall, notwithstanding anything contained in any contract or in the Rent Act or any other law for the time
being in force, be deemed to be terminated, and the owner shall be entitled to possession thereof.
(14)
If such occupier has accepted any temporary accommodation allotted to him under this section he shall vacate the same
forthwith, and if he does not vacate forthwith or within such time as the Board may permit in writing, he shall be liable to
be evicted therefrom under the provisions of Chapter VI of this Act as if such person was in an unauthorised occupation
of the Authority premises.
91.
Repairs or reconstruction of buildings which suddenly collapse or become uninhabitable.
(1)
Where a building suddenly collapses or becomes uninhabitable due to fire, torrential rain or tempest or otherwise and all
or any of the occupiers thereof are dishoused, the Board shall allot temporary accommodation to such occupiers in any
building maintained by the Authority for such purpose at such places and to such extent as it deems fit, and the
provisions of the last preceding section shall mutatis mutandis apply as they apply in relation to occupiers of buildings
which are undertaken to be structurally repaired.
(2)
In the case of any such building, if the Board is of the opinion that the building is capable of being repaired and rendered
fit for habitation at reasonable expense, the Board shall immediately undertake the necessary repairs and the last
preceding section and other provisions of this Chapter shall apply mutatis mutandis to such repairs as they apply to
structural repairs.
(3)
Where the whole building collapses or is rendered uninhabitable, or the Board is of the opinion that the building is not
capable of being repaired and rendered fit for habitation at reasonable expense, the Board may move the State
Government to acquire the property under the provisions of this Chapter and take necessary further action to construct a
new building on the site to accommodate the dishoused occupiers and to provide accommodation for other purposes
specified in sub-section (2) of section 92.
(4)
The provisions of succeeding section shall apply mutatis mutandis to the acquisition, reconstruction and rehabilitation of
occupiers of such buildings.
(5)
Where the whole building collapses or is rendered uninhabitable, and is, therefore, not capable of being repaired and
rendered fit for habitation and the property is not acquired under sub-section (3), then, no plan for erecting any new
building on land on which such building was standing shall be sanctioned by the [Mumbai Corporation]
[These words were Substituted for the original by Maharashtra 25 of 1996, Section 2, Schedule para (3).]
unless a no objection certificate from the Board has been produced along with such plan for erecting such building.
92.
Submission of proposal for acquisition.
(1)
If in respect of any building the Board has issued a certificate under subsection (3) of section 88 or the Municipal
Commissioner has under section 354 of the Corporation Act, issued a written notice requiring the owner or occupier
thereof to pull down the building, with a view to preventing all cause of danger therefrom, and the Board is of the opinion
that such building is not capable of being repaired or rendered fit for habitation at reasonable expense and is dangerous
or injurious to the health or safety of the inhabitants thereof or, where the Bombay Corporation has under section 354R
of the Corporation Act passed a resolution declaring the area in which any such building is situated as the clearance
area, the Board may submit to the State Government a proposal to acquire the land, including a proposal for issue of a
clearance and compulsory acquisition order to clear and acquire the land with the existing building in whatever condition
thereon and for constructing a new building on the same site, and simultaneously prepare plans and estimates for these
Page 41/128
----- PAGE 42 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
purposes.
(2)
in preparing the plans and estimates of the building to be reconstructed, it shall be the duty of the Board to see that all
the occupiers in the building proposed to be demolished shall, as far as practicable, be provided in the reconstructed
building accommodation with a floor area equivalent to their floor area in the old building [***]
[The Portion but in no case exceeding sixty-eight square metres for any occupier of residential tenement on such terms
and conditions as the Board may determine deleted by Maharashtra 16 of 1998, Section 5 (a), (w.e.f. 15-51998).]
[Provided that, in the case of an occupier of a residential tenement the floor area of the accommodation in the
reconstructed building, shall not be less than the 20.90 square metres and more than the 70 square metres.]
[This proviso was inserted by Maharashtra 16 of 1998, Section 5(b), (w.e.f 15-5-1998).]
(3)
Those dishoused occupiers who cannot be so accommodated in the reconstructed building shall be provided with
alternative accommodation in any building maintained by the Authority for such purpose or in any new building
constructed by the Authority wherein surplus accommodation is available.
(4)
After making provision for the matters aforesaid, if there is any surplus area in the new building, it may be utilised by the
Board for such other purposes as it deems fit, with a view to reducing the incidence of [instalments towards the price of
the tenements]
[These words were substituted for the word 'rent' by Maharashtra 12 of 1989, Section 9(b).]
on the occupiers of residential tenements by maximum exploitation of such surplus area for other purposes.
(5)
If in respect of any building, -
(a)
the Municipal Commissioner has under section 354 of the Corporation Act already issued a written notice before the
date on which the provisions of this Chapter are brought into force in the area in which such building is situate requiring
the owner or occupier thereof to pull down the building with a view to preventing all cause of danger therefrom, and such
notice has not been complied with (except for purposes beyond his control) before the date aforesaid, or
(b)
the Municipal Commissioner issues under the said section 354 of the Corporation Act a written notice within nine months
from the date on which the provisions of this Chapter are brought into force in the area in which such building is situated
requiring the owner of occupier thereof to pull down the building, with a view to preventing all cause of danger therefrom,
and such notice is not complied with (except for reasons beyond his control) before the date specified in such notice, the
Board may, notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), move the State Government to acquire the property
under this Chapter immediately and take necessary further steps for demolishing the building, clearing the site and
constructing a new building on the same site. The provisions of this Chapter shall apply mutatis mutandis to the
acquisition, reconstruction and rehabilitation of occupiers of such building as they apply to any other building except that
the occupiers of such building shall as far as practicable, be accommodated in the reconstructed building or any other
building maintained by the Authority, subject to such terms and conditions as the Board may, with the previous sanction
of the Authority, specify.
93.
Clearance and compulsory acquisition.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in the Corporation Act, if on receipt of an acquisition proposal under section 92, the
State Government is satisfied about the reasonableness of the proposal and of the resources available with the Board
for constructing a new budding, it may approve the proposal and communicate its approval to the Board.
(2)
On receipt of the Government approval, the Board shall forward the acquisition proposal to the Land Acquisition Officer
for initiating land acquisition proceedings.
(3)
On receipt of the acquisition proposal from the Board, the Land Acquisition Officer shall publish simultaneously in the
Official Gazette, and in at least four newspapers circulating within [Brihan Mumbai]
Page 42/128
----- PAGE 43 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
[These words were substituted for the original by Maharashtra 25 of 1996 section 2 and Schedule para (3).]
a notice stating the fact of such proposal having been made by the Board and approved by the Government and
alternative accommodation proposed to be provided to the occupiers affected by the proposal and the time before which
the building must be vacated.
(4)
The Land Acquisition Officer shall serve the notice referred to in subsection (3) on the occupiers and owner of the
building and, so far as it is reasonably practicable to ascertain such persons, on every mortgagee of the building, and
call upon them to submit objections and suggestions, if any, why the land should not be acquired, so as to reach him on
or before a date specified in the notice.
(5)
On considering the objections and suggestions and on giving a reasonable opportunity of being heard to the persons
affected by the proposal, the Land Acquisition Officer may sanction the proposals with or without any modification (the
modifications being approved by the Board) and shall publish a notification in the Official Gazette fixing a date on which
the proposal as approved shall become operative and the land specified therein, shall, on and from the date of such
publication, vest absolutely in the Board on behalf of the Authority free from all encumbrances.
(6)
The notification published under sub-section (5) shall be sufficient authority for the Collector to give notice to the person
in possession of the land to surrender or deliver possession thereof within a specified period and on his refusal or failure
to do so to take possession of the land and for that purpose to use such force as may be necessary, and to hand over
possession thereof to the Board, and for the Board to take further action to get the building vacated in accordance with
the next succeeding sub-sections. No person interested in the land shall have any right to object to taking such
possession or to vacating of the building merely on the ground that the amount of acquisition has not been fixed or paid.
(7)
After the proposal becomes operative, the occupiers of the building shall vacate their promises within the time allowed
for that purpose under the proposal.
(8)
After expiry of the time referred to in sub-section (7), the Board shall, for the purpose of vacating the building or such
part thereof, as has remained occupied take or cause to be taken such steps and use or cause to be used such force as
may in the opinion of the Board be reasonably necessary therefor.
(9)
The Board may, after giving seven clear days' notice to the persons evicted under sub-section (8), remove or cause to
be removed or dispose of by public auction any property remaining in such building.
(10)
Where the property is sold under sub-section (9), the sale proceeds shall, after deducting the expenses of sale be paid
to such person or persons as may appear to the Board to be entitled to the same:
Provided that, where the Board is unable to decide as to the person or persons to whom the balance of the amount is
payable or as to the apportionment of the same, it shall refer such dispute to a civil court of competent jurisdiction, and
the decision of the court shall be final.
(11)
After the building is completely vacated, the Board shall proceed to construct a new building on the site according to the
proposal.
94.
Temporary and alternative accommodation to affected occupiers where property is acquired.
(1)
Where the Board requires the occupiers of any building to vacate their premises to enable it to construct a new building
on the land acquired under this Chapter, the Board shall allot temporary accommodation to such occupiers in any
building maintained by it for such purpose, at such places and to such extent as it deems fit. The accommodation may
not be in the same locality or of the same floor area as the premises vacated by the occupiers.
(2)
If any occupier fails to accept and occupy the accommodation allotted to him within one month from the date of
allotment, the responsibility of the Board to provide him with any temporary accommodation shall cease.
Page 43/128
----- PAGE 44 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
(3)
Every occupier shall, with effect from the date on which the land vests in the Authority, until he vacates the premises pay
the rent of such premises to the Board at the same rate at which he was paying it (including the permitted increases, if
any) to the owner.
(4)
Where the temporary accommodation allotted to any occupier is accepted by him, he shall pay to the Board on behalf of
the Authority rent for such accommodation at such rate as the Board may fix in this behalf.
(5)
[ Subject to the provisions of this section, every occupier whether or not he accepts temporary accommodation, shall
have a right to get such accommodation in the new building free of cost. Occupiers of the new building shall be required
to form a co-operative housing society under the Maharashtra Co-operative Societies Act, 1960. The ownership of the
new building shall then be transferred by the Board in the name of such co-operative housing society of the occupiers.
(6)
If any occupier of a new building, after accepting and occupying the accommodation allotted to him, fails to become a
member of the co-operative housing society formed by the occupiers of such building within a period of three months
from the date of allotment or the date specified by the Board, the right of such occupier to get such accommodation shall
stand forfeited and the occupier, who is occupying the new accommodation, shall be liable for eviction and the
responsibility of the Board to provide him any accommodation shall cease.]
[Sub-sections (5) and (6) were substituted for sub-section (5) by Maharashtra 16 of 1998, Section 6, (w.e.f. 15-51998).]
95.
Temporary and alternative accommodation to certain affected occupiers where property is not to be acquired.
- If, for any reason in respect of any building the Board decide not to move the State Government to acquire the property
under sub-section (3) of section 91 or under section 92 or the State Government decides not to approve the proposal
under subsection (1) of section 93 and all or any of the occupiers of any such buildings are dishoused or required to
vacate their premises, the Board may, where possible, allot temporary and alternative accommodation to such occupiers
in any building maintained by Authority at such place and to such extent as it deems fit, in accordance with the
provisions of the last preceding section, so far as they may be applicable
Provided that, in the case of temporary accommodation, such occupiers shall be required to pay to the Board on behalf
of the Authority rent [including service charges, if any,]
[Inserted by Maharashtra 12 of 1989, Section 11.]
for such accommodation from the date the Board decides not to move the State Government to acquire the property or
the State Government decides not to approve the proposal or from the date of occupation of the allotted
accommodation, whichever is later.
95A.
[ Summary eviction of occupiers in certain cases. - Where the owner of a building or the members of the proposed
co-operative housing society of the occupiers of the said building, submits a proposal to the Board for reconstruction of
the building, after obtaining the written consent of not less than 70 per cent of the total occupiers of that building and a
No Objection Certificate for such reconstruction of the building is issued by the Board to the owner or to the proposed
co-operative housing society of the occupiers, as the case may be, then it shall be binding on all the occupiers to vacate
the premises:
Provided that, it shall be incumbent upon the holder of such No Objection Certificate to make available to all the
occupants of such building alternate temporary accommodation.
(2)
On refusal by any of the occupant to vacate the premises as provided in sub-section (1), on being approached by the
holder of such No Objection Certificate for eviction of such occupiers, it would be competent for the Board,
notwithstanding anything contained in Chapters VI and VII of this Act, to effect summary eviction of such occupiers.
(3)
Any person occupying any premises, land, building or structure of the Board unauthorisely or without specific written
permission of the Board in this behalf shall, not withstanding anything contained in Chapters VI and VII of this Act, be
liable for summary eviction.
(4)
Page 44/128
----- PAGE 45 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
Any person who refuses to vacate such premises or obstructs such eviction shall, on conviction, be punishable with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year or with fine which may extend to five thousand rupees, or with
both.]
[Section 95-A was inserted by Maharashtra 16 of 1998, Section 7, (w.e.f. 15-5-1998).]
96.
Amount of acquisition.
- On publication of the notification under sub-section (5) of section 93, the Land Acquisition Officer shall determine the
amount of acquisition in accordance with the provisions of Chapter V.
97.
[Contribution by State Government, Mumbai Corporation and Authority. - (1) The State Government shall, under
appropriation duly made by law in this behalf, pay an annual contribution to the Authority equal to the amount of cess
recovered during that year, and the Mumbai Corporation shall pay the annual contribution of rupees ten crores to the
Authority.
(2)
The Authority from its own funds shall pay an annual contribution of rupees ten crores to the Board for the purpose of
reconstruction of the buildings.]
[Section 97 was substituted by Maharashtra 16 of 1998, Section 8, (w.e.f. 15-5-1998).]
98.
Disposal of moneys received by the Board.
- The moneys placed at the disposal of the Board by the Authority under this Chapter shall be applied for the purposes
of this Chapter.
99.
Assistance from [Mumbai Corporation]
[These words were Substituted for the original by Maharashtra 25 of 1996, Section 2, Schedule para (3).]
(1)
The [Mumbai Corporation]
[These words were Substituted for the original by Maharashtra 25 of 1996, Section 2, Schedule para (3).]
shall render such help and assistance, and furnish such information to the Board as the Board may from time to time,
require for carrying out its duties and functions, and shall make available to the Board for inspection and examinations
such records, maps, plans, and other documents as may be necessary for the performance and discharge of its duties
and functions.
(2)
The [Mumbai Corporation]
[These words were Substituted for the original by Maharashtra 25 of 1996, Section 2, Schedule para (3).]
shall, on demand, make available copies of assessment rolls and other relevant documents in connection with
assessment of its taxes. Such copies shall be duly certified by an officer of the [Mumbai Corporation]
[These words were Substituted for the original by Maharashtra 25 of 1996, Section 2, Schedule para (3).]
as may be authorised in this behalf.
100.
Relaxation or modification of certain provisions of Corporation Act or Regional and Town Planning Act, in case of
Board's reconstruction proposal.
- Notwithstanding anything contained in the provisions of the Corporation Act or the Town Planning Act, or any rules,
bye-laws, regulations, plans, scheme, notifications, directions or orders made or issued or deemed to be made or issued
under any of those Acts, the State Government may, having regard to the necessity of providing alternative
accommodation to occupiers, who have been, or are likely to be, dishoused on account of any reconstruction proposal
or proposals undertaken by the Board under this Chapter, after consultation with the [Mumbai Corporation,]
[These words were Substituted for the original by Maharashtra 25 of 1996, Section 2, Schedule para (3).]
by general or special order, relax all or any of the provisions aforesaid in the case of any such proposal or class of
proposals, or may by like order direct that any such provisions shall apply to any such proposal or class of proposals,
subject to such modifications or conditions as it may specify in the order.
101.
Page 45/128
----- PAGE 46 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
Procedure for giving notice and obtaining permission for building to be repaired or reconstructed by Board.
(1)
If in respect of any building to be repaired or reconstructed by the Board, any notice is required to be given or any
application is to be made and the approval, sanction, consent or permission otherwise of that Municipal Commissioner
or any other authority is required to be obtained under any of the provisions mentioned in the last preceding section, the
necessary permission shall be deemed to have been obtained by the Board if the Board gives a reasonable notice of the
proposed work to the Municipal Commissioner or other authority concerned before the work is commenced.
(2)
Such notice shall be accompanied by plans and other relevant documents and information.
(3)
After receipt of such notice and after making such inquiry as may be deemed necessary, the Municipal Commissioner or
other authority may, within a period of thirty days, submit to the State Government a statement in writing of any
objections or suggestions which he or it may deem fit to make with reference to the proposed work.
(4)
Every objection or suggestion so submitted shall be considered by the State Government, which shall, after such
investigation (if any) as it shall think advisable pass orders thereon, and the work shall be carried out in accordance with
such orders,
102.
Saving of powers of other authorities and persons to carry out repairs and reimbursement of cost for structural repairs in
certain cases.
(1)
Nothing in this Chapter shall affect the powers of the Municipal Commissioner or any other authority or the rights or
liabilities of any persons (including the owner or any occupier) to carry out any repairs to any building, or to execute any
works thereon or to take any other action in respect of such building authorised under sections 257, 354, 377A, 381, 489
or 499 or any other provisions of the Corporation Act, or under section 10D or 10E or any other provisions of the Rent
Act, or under the provision of any other law for the time being in force, in so far as the said repairs, works or action does
not require any structural repairs; and in so far as they do require structural repairs, until such repairs undertaken by the
Board:
Provided that, if any occupier of a building seeks the approval of the Municipal Commissioner under section 499 of the
Corporation Act, for carrying out structural repairs in respect of any such building, such approval may be given by the
Municipal Commissioner only after consultation with the Board, but the occupier shall not be entitled to recover from the
owner under the said section 499 the expenses incurred by him on any such structural repairs.
Provided further that, during the period this Chapter is in force, the provisions of sections 10D and 10E of the Rent Act,
shall not apply to any building, in so far as they relate to buildings undertaken or proposal to be undertaken by the Board
for structural repairs.
(2)
If while carrying out any repairs, or executing any works or taking any action referred to in sub-section (1), it becomes
necessary for the Municipal Commissioner or any other authority or any person to carry out structural repairs also, and
the Municipal Commissioner or such authority or person desire that the cost of the structural repairs should be paid by
the Board, the Municipal Commissioner or such authority or person, as the case may be, shall obtain the previous
sanction of the Board for such repairs. The Board may give such sanction on such terms and conditions as it may deem
fit to impose, having regard to the priority, if any, assigned to the building under subsection (2) of section 88 and
availability of resources; or may not agree to give such sanction.
(3)
Where sanction is given under sub-section (2), it shall be lawful for the Board to pay the cost of the structural repairs
actually carried out in lumpsum or by instalments or according to the progress of the work from time to time as it may
deem fit.
(4)
When the Board pays the cost of the structural repairs in full, or when a period of three months elapses after the Board
has paid not less than seventy-five per cent of such cost, whichever is earlier, the building shall be deemed to be
structurally repaired by the Board under this Chapter.
Page 46/128
----- PAGE 47 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
103.
Revival of owner's duty to carry out tenantable repairs.
- On and after the appointed day, the provisions of section 23 of the Rent Act shall cease to be suspended, shall stand
revived and shall be enforced and have full effect again. Accordingly, notwithstanding anything contained in this
Chapter, the owner of every building shall be bound to keep the premises let to any occupier in good and tenantable
repair as required by section 23 of the Rent Act.
[CHAPTER VIII-A]
[Chapter VIII-A was inserted by Maharashtra 21 of 1986, Section 5.]
Acquisition of Cessed Properties for Co-operative Societies of Occupiers
103A.
Application of Chapter VIII-A to certain buildings.
- This Chapter shall come into force on and from the commencement of the Maharashtra Housing and Area
Development (Second Amendment) Act, 1986, and shall apply to all the cessed buildings which are erected before the
1st day of September 1940 and are classified as belonging to Category A under sub-section (1) of section 84:
[Provided that, nothing in this Chapter shall apply to any cessed building belonging to Category A if, on the date of
commencement of the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development (Second Amendment) Act, 1986, out of the total
number of occupiers of such building, fifty per cent, or more occupiers are using the tenements or premises in their
possession for commercial or non-residential purpose.]
[This proviso shall be deemed always to have been inserted by Maharashtra 12 of 1989, Section 12.]
Explanation. - For the purposes of this section, any such building where a floor or any part of a building is constructed
subsequently and such floor or part is not separable, shall be deemed to be a building belonging to Category A.
103B.
Acquisition of cessed property for co-operative societies of occupiers.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in any of the provisions of Chapter VIII or any other law for the time being in force or
in any agreement, contracts judgement, decree or order of any Court or Tribunal to the contrary, a co-operative society
formed or proposed to be formed under the provisions of the Maharashtra Ca-operative Societies Act, 1960, by not less
than seventy per cent of the occupiers in a cessed building may by written application request the Board to move the
State Government to acquire the land together with the existing building thereon [or where the owner of the building
does not own the land underneath or appurtenant to such building but holds it as a lessee or licensee, or where any
person holds the building or the land underneath or appurtenant to such building or both under a lease or licence, then
to acquire the right or interest of such owner or person in or over such building or land or both as lessee or licensee
together with the existing building thereon]
[This portion shall be deemed always to have been inserted, by Maharashtra 12 of 1989, Section 13(a)]
(hereinafter in this Chapter referred to as "the land") in the interest of its better preservation or for reconstruction of a
new building in lieu of the old one and intimate their willingness to pay the amount of such acquisition as may be
determined under the provisions of this Chapter and to carry out the necessary structural and other repairs or, wherever
necessary, to reconstruct a new building, as the case may be, at their own cost.
[Explanation I. - In this section the expression "seventy per cent, of the occupiers" means the seventy per cent of the
occupiers on the date of commencement of the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development (Second Amendment) Act,
1986, and include their successors-in interest or new tenants inducted in place of such occupiers, but does not include
the owner or the occupiers inducted by virtue of creation of any additional tenancies or licences by the owner after the
date of commencement of the aforesaid Act.
Explanation II.- For the purposes of this sub-section, any suit or proceeding for recovery or possession of tenement or
premises or part thereof, initiated against the occupier in any court or before any authority whether, before or after
making an application under this sub-section, shall not affect the right of such occupier to join or to continue as a
member of the co-operative society of the occupiers of the building, but his membership of such co-operative society
shall be subject to the final decision in such suit or proceeding :
Provided that, if, in the meantime before the final decision in such suit or proceeding, the acquisition proceedings under
this Chapter are completed and the land is conveyed to the Co-operative society of the occupiers, under sub-section (7),
the claim for possession made in such suit or proceeding, at any stage where it is pending on the date of execution of
Page 47/128
----- PAGE 48 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
such conveyance, shall abate.]
[These Explanation shall be deemed always to have been inserted, by Maharashtra 12 of 1989, Section 13(b)<]
(2)
On receipt of the application made under sub-section (1), the Board shall after due verification and scrutiny, approve the
proposal if it considers that it is in the interest of better preservation of the building or to be necessary for reconstruction
of a new building and shall direct the co-operative society, whether registered or proposed, to deposit with the Board
within the period specified by it in that behalf thirty per cent of the approximate amount that would be required to be paid
to the owner if the land is acquired and give intimation in that behalf to the owner.
(2A)
[ Where after the date of application made under sub-section (1),-
(a)
any owner has undertaken the work of any repairs to the building; or
(b)
the percentage of the occupiers who had initially agreed to become members of the co-operative society formed under
sub-section (1) is reduced to less than seventy per cent of the occupiers as a result of some members opting out, or due
to the number of additional tenancies or licences created in the building thereafter or due to any other reason
whatsoever,
then the power of Board to approve the proposal shall not be affected, and notwithstanding anything contained in
sub-section (1), the Board shall approve the proposal and direct the co-operative society to deposit the approximate
amount as required under sub-section (2).]
[Sub-section (2A) shall be deemed always to have been inserted, by Maharashtra 12 of 1989, Section 13(c).]
(3)
On receipt of the amount of deposit as provided in sub-section (2), the Board shall submit to the State Government a
proposal to acquire the land for the aforesaid purpose.
(4)
If on receipt of an acquisition proposal under sub-section (3), the State Government is satisfied about the
reasonableness of the proposal, it may approve the proposal and communicate its approval to the Board.
(5)
On receipt of the Government approval, the Board shall forward acquisition proposal to Land Acquisition Officer for
initiating and acquisition proceedings in accordance with the provisions of sub-sections (3), (4) and (5) of section 93 and
section 96 of this Act:
Provided that, where any proceedings for acquisition of land are so initiated the notice to be published under sub-section
(3) of section 93 in respect thereof reed not contain any statement regarding provision of any alternative accommodation
to occupiers in such land
[Provided further that, where the proposal involves acquisition of the right or interest of the lessee or licencee in or over
the building or land as referred to in sub-section (1), then such building or land on its transfer by the Authority to the
co-operative society under sub-section (7) shall be held by the co-operative society on lease or licence, as the case may
be, subject, however, to the following conditions, namely:-
(i)
where there is a subsisting lease or licence, on the same terms and conditions on which the lessee or licensee held it,
and
(ii)
where the lease or licence has been determined or where the lessee or licensee has committed breach of the terms and
conditions of the lease or licence, as the case may be, on the fresh terms and conditions, particularly in regard to the
period of lease or licence and rent as may be stipulated by the owner of the land.]
(5A)
[ Where acquisition proceedings have been initiated as provided in subsection (5) and a notification under sub-section
(5) of section 93 is published, the Collector shall take and hand over possession of the land to the Board in accordance
with the provisions of sub-section (6) of section 93,]
[Sub-section (5A) was inserted by Maharashtra 12 of 1989, Section 13(e).]
(6)
Page 48/128
----- PAGE 49 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
After the land is vested absolutely in the Board on behalf of the Authority free from all encumbrances and the amount to
be paid to the owner is determined, the Board shall require the society to get itself registered if it is not registered till then
and to deposit the remainder of the amount to be paid to the owner with the Land Acquisition Officer. The Board shall
simultaneously pass on the amount deposited by the co-operative society with it to the Land Acquisition Officer. The
Land Acquisition Officer shall thereupon make the payment of the amount for acquisition or deposit the same in the
court as provided in section 46.
(7)
Subject to the provisions of sub-section (6), the Authority shall convey the land acquired under this section to the
co-operative society of the occupiers thereof with its right, title and interest therein and execute without undue delay the
necessary documents in that behalf.
103C.
Prohibition on transfer of land or building by society.
(1)
After the land is transferred to the co-operative society under sub-section (7) of section 103B, the society shall use the
same for the purpose for which it was used before its acquisition by carrying out structural repairs to building thereon or
reconstruction of new building in lieu of existing building, as the case may be, as provided in this Chapter and for no
other purpose.
(2)
Save as otherwise expressly provided in this Chapter and notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time
being in force, no co-operative society shall transfer such land or building or interest therein, or no member or tenant of
the co-operative society shall transfer his interest in any tenement by sale, gift, exchange, leave and licence, assignment
or lease; and any such transfer by way of sale, gift, exchange, leave and licence, assignment or lease by the
co-operative society of any land vesting in it by or under the provisions of this Chapter or transfer by the member or
tenant of his interest as aforesaid shall be void,
(3)
If the co-operative society contravenes the provisions of sub-section (1) or enters into any transaction which is void
under sub-section (2), or if the society is not functioning, it shall be lawful for the Authority to resume such land and
building from such society after making full payment to the society of the amount of the acquisition which the society has
paid for such land and building and upon such resumption to transfer the same to any other co-operative society of the
occupants of the tenements in the transit camp provided by the Authority, on payment of the acquisition price which was
paid by the co-operative society for whom the land was acquired.
(4)
(a)
Any person who enters into any transaction which is void under subsection (2) shall -
(i)
if he is a member of the co-operative society, cease to be such member and be evicted;
(ii)
if he is a tenant, then notwithstanding anything contained in the Rent Act, be evicted.
(b)
Any person claiming through such member or tenant shall also be liable to be evicted.
(5)
The Competent Authority appointed under section 65 shall be the Competent Authority for the purposes of eviction of
persons referred to in sub-section (4) and shall follow the same procedure as prescribed in section 66 for such eviction
as if the premises were Authority premises and thereupon the provisions of Chapter VI shall mutatis mutandis apply in
respect of orders passed by the Competent Authority as they apply to the orders passed under Chapter VI.
103D.
Relaxation in requirement of minimum number of membership of co-operative societies under this Chapter.
- Notwithstanding anything contained in the Maharashtra Co-operative Societies Act, 1960, the requirement of minimum
number of members specified therein for formation of a co-operative society shall not apply to a co-operative society of
occupiers formed under this Chapter.
103E.
Page 49/128
----- PAGE 50 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
Non-member occupiers entitled to continue in tenements of co-operative society.
(1)
The occupiers of tenements in the building acquired for the co-operative society who do not become the members of the
co-operative society shall, subject to the provisions of the first proviso, be entitled to continue in their tenements as
tenants of the co-operative society after the building has been conveyed to the co-operative society on the same terms
and conditions on which they were occupying them from the owner of the building :
Provided that, notwithstanding anything contained in the Rent Act, or any other law for the time being in force or any
agreement, contract, judgement, decree or order of any Court or Tribunal to the contrary the co-operative societies shall
be entitled to recover, in addition to rent, from such occupiers and such occupiers shall be liable to share and pay
proportionately towards any expenditure that may be incurred by the society on structural repairs of the buildings or
towards the service charges and additional amenities or facilities provided in the building :
Provided further that, if the owner himself is one of the occupiers in the building and he does not become the member of
the co-operative society, he may, subject to the provisions of the first proviso and sub-sections (2) to (7), continue to
occupy the premises occupied by him on payment of standard rent, if any fixed, or where no standard rent is fixed on
such other rent and on Such other terms and conditions as may be mutually agreed between the owner and the
co-operative society.
(2)
Where in a co-operative society the owner referred to in the second proviso to sub-section (1) becomes a tenant and he
considers that the rent demanded by the co-operative society is excessive, such owner may apply to the Court of Small
Causes, Bombay for fixing the standard rent of his tenement, but such owner shall, not withstanding anything contained
in the Rent Act, or any other law for the time being in force, continue to pay to the society, the rent demanded by it and
failure of such owner to pay to the society such rent, the Court shall not proceed to fix the standard rent under this
sub-section until such owner pays to the society such rent.
Explanation. - For the purposes of this sub-section, the expression "standard rent" includes the increase in rent
permitted under the provisions of the Rent Act.
(3)
Where the Court has fixed the standard rent under sub-section (2) and it finds that the rent demanded by the
co-operative society from such owner is unreasonably excessive the Court may order payment of simple interest at the
rate of six per cent. per annum on the amount of difference between the standard rent and the rent demanded and
received by the co-operative society from such owner.
Explanation. - For the purposes of this sub-section where a difference between the standard rent and the rent
demanded by the co-operative society is more than twenty-five per cent the rent demanded by the co-operative society
shall be deemed to be unreasonably excessive.
(4)
Any amount in excess of the standard rent fixed by the Court under sub-section (2) or standard rent referred to in
sub-section (6), received by the cooperative society shall, at the option of such owner, be adjusted towards the payment
of future rent by such owner or refunded to him,
(5)
An application under sub-section (2) may be made jointly by all or any of the owners interested in respect of the
tenements situated in the same building.
(6)
No Court shall upon an application or in any suit or proceeding fix the standard rent of any tenement under sub-section
(2) or entertain any plea that the rent is excessive, if the standard rent in respect of the same tenement has been duly
fixed by a competent court on the merits of the case, without any fraud or collusion of an error of the fact, and there has
been no structural alteration or change in the amenities or in respect of any other factors which are relevant to the
fixation of the standard rent.
(7)
The decision of the Court under sub-section (2) or (3) shall be final and conclusive and shall not be called in question in
any court.
103F.
Application of Rent Act to buildings of co-operative society.
Page 50/128
----- PAGE 51 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
- Save as otherwise expressly provided in this Chapter and notwithstanding anything contained in section 5 of this Act,
the provisions of the Rent Act shall apply to the premises in the land and buildings owned by the co-operative societies
formed and registered in pursuance of the provisions of this Chapter.
103G.
Certain occupiers to be accommodated in transit camps.
- The occupiers of any building who have not joined the co-operative society may, if they so desire but subject to the
availability of tenements with the Board, be accommodated by the Board in tenements in transit camps constructed by
the Board on economic rent and on such other terms and conditions as may be determined by the Board.
103H.
Application of provisions of section 100.
- The provisions of section 100 regarding relaxation or modifications of the provisions of the laws referred to therein shall
apply mutatis mutandis to the reconstruction proposal or proposals undertaken by co-operative societies under this
Chapter and the State Government may, by general or special order, relax or modify the provisions of such laws in
respect of such co-operative societies or society :
Provided that, in no case where such relaxation or modification is made, the floor space index shall exceed two or the
consumed floor 'space index, whichever is higher.
103I.
Reconstruction of new building by co-operative society.
(1)
In preparing the plans and estimates of the building to be reconstructed it shall be the duty of the co-operative society to
see that all the occupiers in the building proposed to be demolished who have joined the co-operative society shall, as
far as practicable, be provided in the reconstructed building accommodation with a floor area equivalent to their floor
area in the old building, but in no case exceeding seventy square metres of plinth area to any occupier.
(2)
Where the co-operative society proposes to carry out structural repairs to the building and the building or any part
thereof is required to be vacated, or to reconstruct a building and the building is required to be demolished, the
occupiers thereof, on being called upon by a notice in writing by the co-operative society, shall vacate the tenements in
their occupation within the period specified in such notice, and upon failure of the occupiers to so vacate the tenement,
the co-operative society may request the Board to take or cause to be taken necessary steps to evict such occupiers
from the buildings and on receipt of such request the Board may take or cause to be taken necessary steps to get the
building or part thereof, as the case may be, vacated and the Board shall exercise in this behalf the powers under clause
(a) of section 77 and where an occupier to whom the Board has served a notice to vacate the premises in his occupation
fails to vacate the same within the period specified in such notice, the Board may use or caused to be used such force
as may reasonably, be necessary therefor.
(3)
The co-operative society shall, notwithstanding anything contained in any other law, reserve and allot, in the new
building such percentage as is specified in the Third Schedule to this Act of the surplus area in the new building
determined on the basis of the difference between the floor, space index availed of by it while reconstructing the building
and the floor space index that had been utilised in the construction of the old building, for housing such dishoused
occupier from other cessed demolished buildings as may be nominated by the Board and upon such nominations, the
nominated occupiers shall be accepted by the co-operative society as its members in accordance with its bye-laws, and
shall not dispose of tenements covered by such reserved surplus area to others. If any tenements are rendered surplus
because of any of the occupiers in the old building not joining the co-operative society the percentage as is specified in
the Third Schedule to this Act of the surplus area to be made available to the Board in the new building for allotment to
other dishoused occupiers shall be determined on the basis of the difference between the total floor area constructed in
the new building and the area to be occupied therein by the participating occupiers in the old building. Such surplus
tenement to be allotted to dishoused occupiers from the other cessed buildings which are demolished and who are
nominated by the Board shall be allotted to them by the co-operative society after receiving from them such amount as
may be determined by the State Government.
(4)
The co-operative society may allocate the area for officers, shops, commercial tenements, or any other non-residential
Page 51/128
----- PAGE 52 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
use in the new building only to the extent of the area occupied in the old building for the said purposes.
(5)
The list of occupiers in the old building as also the area of the tenement therein shall be certified by the Board after such
consultation with the co-operative society and the occupiers of the tenements concerned, as may be necessary. The
area of the tenement shall be determined having regard to the provisions of the Development Control Rules applicable
in the area and after taking into account any specific area or part thereof as might be permitted by Government for the
purpose. The Board shall inform the occupiers about the area so determined.
(6)
If there is a dispute as to who is the lawful occupier of the tenements in the old building, the parties shall be directed to
get the disputes determined by the competent court of law. Allotment of a transit accommodation to a person actually in
occupation of such tenement or in a tenement in a new building shall not be deemed to have decided the issue and,
such allotment shall be without prejudice to the respective rights of the dispute parties.
(7)
Any occupier aggrieved by the determination of the area of a tenement may, within thirty days from the date of receipt of
the communication in that behalf, prefer an appeal to an officer specified by the Authority for the purpose. The decision
of such appellate officer shall be final and conclusive and shall not be called in question in any Court.
103J.
Protections to occupiers or allottees.
- If the co-operative society unauthorisedly allots to any person any tenement which is to be allotted under the foregoing
provisions to a dishoused person from the building reconstructed or to a dishoused person from the other cessed
demolished buildings by nomination by the Board, such unauthorised allotment shall, notwithstanding anything
contained in any law for the time being in force, be treated as invalid for all purposes and the Authority shall be
competent to evict such unauthorised allottee by taking action under section 66 of this Act as if the premises so allotted
were Authority premises and allot such premises to the person to whom they should have been allotted.
103K.
Board for purposes of this Chapter
(1)
[The Mumbai Repairs and Reconstruction Board]
[These words were substituted for the words 'The Bombay Repairs and Reconstruction Board' by Maharashtra 25 of
1996, Section 2 and Schedule Para (3).]
established under section 18 of this Act shall be the Board for the purposes of carrying out the purposes of this Chapter.
(2)
Subject to the superintendence, direction and control of the Authority, the Board shall exercise such of the powers and
perform such of the duties and functions conferred on it under Chapter VIII as may be necessary for the performance of
its duties and functions under this Chapter.
103L.
Overriding effect of Chapter VIII-A.
- The provisions of this Chapter shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other
provisions of this Act, or any other law for the time being in force or in any agreement, contract, judgement, decree or
order of any Court or Tribunal.
103M.
Power to remove difficulties.
- If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Chapter, during the period of two years from the date of
commencement of the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development (Second Amendment) Act, 1986, the State
Government may, as occasion arises, by order do anything not inconsistent with such provisions, which appears to it to
be necessary or expedient for the purposes of removing the difficulty.
Chapter IX
Environmental Improvement of Slums
104.
[Board for purposes of this Chapter and its duties.]
[This marginal note was substituted for the original, by Maharashtra 25 of 1996, Section 6(2).]
Page 52/128
----- PAGE 53 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
- [(1) Each of the Boards excluding [the Mumbai Housing and Area Development Board,]
[Section 104 was renumbered as sub-section (2) thereof and sub-section (1) was Inserted to it by Maharashtra 11 of
1993, Section 6(1).]
mentioned in clause (a) and (b), and [the Mumbai Slum Improvement Board]
[These words were substituted, by Maharashtra 25 of 1996.]
mentioned in clause (c), of sub-section (1) of section 18, shall be the Board for the purposes of this Chapter within the
area of its jurisdiction.]
[This proviso shall be deemed always to have been inserted, by Maharashtra 12 of 1989, Section 13(d).]
(2)
[]
[Section 104 was renumbered as sub-section (2) thereof and sub-section (1) was Inserted to it by Maharashtra 11 of
1993, Section 6(1).]
Subject to the superintendence, direction and control of the Authority, it shall be the duty of a Board,-
(a)
to undertake and carry out such improvement works as it considers necessary, in any slum improvement area;
(b)
to undertake, from time to time, the works of maintenance and repairs in respect of any improvement works in any such
area;
(c)
to collect, from time to time, service charges recoverable by and due to it in any slum improvement area;
(d)
to collect compensation in respect of Government lands included in any slum improvement area;
(e)
to do all other things, with the prior approval of the Authority, to facilitate exercising of its powers and performance of its
duties under this Chapter.
105.
Power of Board to entrust improvement works.
- In any slum improvement area, the Board may, on such terms and conditions as may be mutually agreed upon, entrust
to the Municipal Corporation, the Municipal Council or to any other agency recognised by it for the purpose,-
(a)
the execution, under its own supervision, of any improvement works;
(b)
the maintenance or repairs of any improvement works under its control;
(c)
the work of collection of service charges recoverable by and due to it.
106.
Use of property assigned or entrusted by Government, [Mumbai Corporation,]
[These words were Substituted for the original by Maharashtra 25 of 1996, Section 2, Schedule para (3).]
etc.
- The State Government, the Municipal Corporation or the Municipal Council may assign or entrust to the Board, any
property, whether moveable or immoveable for use by the Board, for such purposes of this Chapter on such terms and
conditions as may be agreed upon by the Board. It shall be the duty of the Board to use such property for the purpose
for which it is assigned or entrusted.
107.
Transfer of improvement works to Board.
(1)
Any Municipal Corporation or Municipal Council may transfer to the Board on behalf of the Authority any improvement
works completed by it in any slum improvement area for the purpose of maintenance, or for any other purpose of this
Chapter on such terms and conditions, as may be mutually agreed upon, and it shall be the duty of the Board to carry
out the purpose for which such works are transferred.
(2)
Page 53/128
----- PAGE 54 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
On such transfer of the improvement works, all records relating to such works shall be transferred to the Board.
108.
Declaration of slum improvement area and execution of slum improvement works.
(1)
Where a Board upon report of any of its officers or other information in its possession is satisfied that any area is or may
be a source of danger to the health, safety or convenience of the public of the area or of its neighbourhood, by reason of
such area having inadequate or no basic amenities, or being insanitary, squalid, overcrowded or otherwise, and where
the Board decides to carry out any improvement works in such area, it shall cause such area to be defined in a map,
and then it shall by an order published in the Official Gazette, declare such area to be a slum improvement area and its
intention to carry out such improvement works as in its opinion are necessary and are specified in such order. A copy of
such declaration shall be displayed in conspicuous places in such area, and shall also be served upon the owner,
occupier and mortgagee, if any, of the property or any part thereof.
(2)
Any person aggrieved by a declaration made under sub-section (1) may, within thirty days of the date of such
declaration in the Official Gazette, appeal to the Tribunal.
(3)
On an appeal, the Tribunal may make an order either confirming, modifying, or rescinding the declaration; and the
decision of the Tribunal shall be final.
109.
Improvement works.
- For the purpose of this Chapter, the improvement works may consist of all or any of the following, namely :-
(a)
laying of water-mains, sewers and storm-water drains;
(b)
provision of urinals, latrines, community baths, and water-taps;
(c)
widening, re-aligning or paving of existing roads, lanes and pathways and constructing new roads, lanes and pathways;
(d)
providing street lighting;
(e)
cutting, filling, levelling and landscaping the area;
(f)
partial development of the area with a view to providing land for unremunerative purposes, such as parks, playgrounds,
welfare and community centres, schools, dispensaries, hospitals, police stations, fire stations and other amenities
provided or conducted on a non-profit basis;
(g)
demolition of obstructive or dilapidated buildings or portions of buildings;
(h)
any other matter for which in the opinion of the Board, it is expedient to make provision for preventing the area from
being or becoming a source of danger to safety or health or a nuisance.
110.
Association of members of local bodies with improvement works.
- A Board may associate with it, members of the local bodies, if any, for the purpose of preparation of plans and
supervision and execution of any improvement works in their respective areas.
111.
Power of -Board to require the occupiers to vacate premises.
(1)
Where a Board undertakes the improvement works in slum improvement area and is of the opinion that any of the
occupiers thereof should vacate their premises, it shall give them notice to vacate by a date, or dates specified in the
notice. It may as far as practicable offer such occupiers alternative sites in any other suitable area to locate these
premises. If any occupier fails to vacate and to shift his premises to the alternative site offered to him within the specified
Page 54/128
----- PAGE 55 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
period, the responsibility of the Board to provide him alternative site shall cease.
(2)
Where any occupier does not vacate his premises, the Board may take or cause to be taken such steps and use or
cause to be used such force as may be reasonably necessary for the purpose of getting the premises vacated.
(3)
The Board may, after giving fifteen clear days' notice to the persons removed under sub-section (2) and affixing a copy
thereof in some conspicuous place in the area, remove or cause to be removed or dispose of by public auction any
property remaining on the premises vacated under that sub-section.
(4)
Where the property is sold under sub-section (3), the sale proceeds shall after deducting the expenses of sale be paid to
such person or persons as may be entitled to the same :
Provided that, where the Board is unable to decide as to the person or persons to whom the balance of the amount is
payable or as to apportionment of the same, it shall refer such dispute to a civil court of competent jurisdiction, and the
decision of the court shall be final.
112.
Restriction on buildings in slum improvement area.
(1)
A Board may by a notice affixed or exhibited in a conspicuous place in a slum improvement area direct that no person
shall erect any building in a slum improvement area or carry out any additions or alterations thereto except with its
previous permission in writing.
(2)
Every person desiring to obtain permission referred to in sub-section (1) shall make an application in writing to the Board
furnishing such information as may be required by it.
(a)
On receipt of such application and after making such inquiry as it considers necessary, the Board may by order in writing
-
(b)
either grant the permission subject to such terms and conditions, if any, as may be specified in the order, or
refused to grant such permission
Provided that, before granting the permission subject to terms and conditions or before making an order refusing such
permission, the applicant shall be given a reasonable opportunity to show cause why such terms and conditions should
not be imposed, or the permission should not be refused.
113.
Orders of demolition of buildings in certain cases.
(1)
Where the erection or alteration of any building or any addition thereto has commenced, or is being carried out, or has
been completed, in contravention of the provisions of section 112, a Board may, notwithstanding the provision contained
in any other law, direct by an order that such erection, alteration or addition shall be demolished by the owner or the
person who has erected the budding or carried out the addition or alteration, within such time as may be specified in that
order. On the failure of the owner or such person to comply with the order, the building so erected or the addition or
alteration so carried out shall be liable to summary demolition by an order of the Board, and the expenses of such
demolition shall be recoverable from the owner or such person as arrears of land revenue
Provided that, no such order shall be made, unless the owner or person concerned has been given a reasonable
opportunity of being heard.
(2)
Any property ordered be demolished under sub-section (1) shall be disposed of as the Board may direct, and the cost of
removal of the property under this section shall also be recoverable as arrears of land revenue.
(3)
For the purpose of causing any building to be demolished under sub-section (1), the Board may use or cause to be used
such force as may be reasonably necessary.
Recovery of Dues of the Authority
Page 55/128
----- PAGE 56 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
114.
Recovery of service charges.
(1)
Where improvement works have been executed in any slum improvement area, any expenses incurred by a Board on
behalf of the Authority or, by any other authority at the instance of the Board, in connection with the maintenance of such
improvement works or the enjoyment of amenities and conveniences rendered possible by such works, shall be
recoverable by the Board as service charges from the occupiers of the slum improvement area.
(2)
The amount of expenses incurred on the maintenance of works or amenities shall be determined by the Board in respect
of slum improvement area separately and shall be recovered as service charges from the occupier of each building in
the area,
115.
Recovery of dues.
(1)
Where any person is in arrears of service charges, as determined by a Board in pursuance of section 114, the Board
may, by notice served, (i) by post or (ii) by affixing a copy of it on the outer door or some other conspicuous part, of the
premises, or (iii) in any other manner that the Board may deem proper order that person to pay the same within such
time not less than fifteen days as, may be specified in the notice.
(2)
Where any person causes any damage to the property of the Authority or the improvement works provided by the
Authority, the Board shall assess the amount of such damages and shall, after serving notice on the person in the
manner provided in sub-section (1), order that person to pay the amount of such damages within such time as may be
specified in the notice.
(3)
If any person fails to comply with an order made under sub-section (1) or (2), the amount due from him to the Authority
shall be recoverable as arrears of land revenue.
116.
Appeal.
- Any person aggrieved by an order of a Board under sub-section (1) or (2) of section 115 may, within thirty days of the
date of the order, prefer appeal to the Tribunal and the decision of the Tribunal on appeal shall be-final.
Slum Improvement Fund
117.
Separate Slum Improvements Fund.
(1)
Where improvement works have been executed in any slum improvement area, the service charges recovered from the
occupiers under section 114 shall be credited to the fund of the Authority. There shall, however, be created a separate
fund called the Maharashtra Slum Improvement Fund (in this Chapter referred to as the Fund') and the amount so
credited to the Fund of the Authority shall be transferred to the Fund so created.
(2)
The amount in the Fund shall be expended for the purposes of this Chapter. The State Government may make rules
regulating all matters connected with the Fund, including the matter in which the Fund shall be maintained, operated and
expended.
118.
Contribution by State Government and local authority to Fund.
(1)
The State Government may pay an annual contribution to the Authority of such amount as may be determined by the
State Government.
(2)
The State Government may, after consultation with the local authority concerned, direct such local authority to make an
annual contribution to the Authority for the purposes of this Chapter.
(3)
Page 56/128
----- PAGE 57 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
The moneys placed at the disposal of the Authority under the provisions of this Chapter shall form part of the Fund and
shall be applied for the purposes of this Chapter.
119.
Action taken under Maharashtra XXIII of 1973 deemed to be taken under this Act.
- Any action taken by the Maharashtra Slum Improvement Board under the Maharashtra Slum Improvement Board Act,
1973, shall be deemed to be action taken by the board constituted under this Act.
Establishment of Panchayats in Slum Improvement Area
120.
Establishment of Panchayat.
- The Board may, with the approval of the Authority establish, by notification in the Official Gazette, Panchayat for any
slum improvement area.
121.
Incorporation of Panchayat.
- Every such Panchayat shall be a body corporate by the name of "The .............. (Slum Improvement Area) Panchayat,"
as may be given by the Board, having perpetual succession and common seal, with power to acquire, hold and dispose
of property, both moveable and immoveable, and to contract, and may be the said name sue or be sued.
122.
Contribution of Panchayat.
(1)
Every Panchayat shall have a Sarpanch, a Upa-Sarpanch and other members, not being less than 3 and more than 13,
as the Board may with the approval of the Authority determined.
(2)
The members of a Panchayat including the Sarpanch and Upa-Sarpanch shall be nominated by the Board from amongst
the residents of the slum improvement area. The names of the members so nominated shall be published by the Board
in the Official Gazette; and on the publication of the names of members in the Official Gazette, the Panchayat shall be
deemed to be duly constituted.
123.
Disqualifications.
- A person shall be disqualified for being nominated or for continuing as a member of the Panchayat, if he has become
subject to any of the disqualifications specified in section 11.
124.
Term of office of members and their conditions of service.
(1)
The members of a Panchayat shall, save as otherwise provided in this Chapter, hold office for a term of three years.
(2)
The Board may by order in writing and for reasons recorded therein extend the said term for a period not exceeding five
years in the aggregate.
(3)
The remuneration and other conditions of service of the members of the Panchayat including Sarpanch and
Upa-Sarpanch shall be such as the State Government may, by order, determine.
(4)
The remuneration and allowance to the members of the Panchayat shall be paid from the Panchayat Fund.
(5)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Chapter; if a member of the State Legislature is appointed as a member of
the Panchayat including the Sarpanch and Upa-Sarpanch thereof, he shall not be entitled to receive any remuneration
other than travelling allowance, daily allowance or other allowance which is paid to a member of the Panchayat for the
purpose of meeting the personal expenditure incurred in attending the meeting of Panchayat or in performing any other
functions as such member.
125.
Commencement of term of office.
- The term of office of the members of a Panchayat shall be deemed to commence from the date of the Gazette in which
Page 57/128
----- PAGE 58 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
their names are published under section 122.
126.
Resignation of office by members.
- Any member of the Panchayat may resign his office by writing under his hand addressed to the Sarpanch. The
Upa-Sarpanch may resign his office of Upa-Sarpanch or of member also by like writing addressed to the Sarpanch. The
Sarpanch may resign his office of Sarpanch or of member also by like writing addressed to the Chairman. The notice of
every such resignation shall be delivered in the prescribed, manner, and the office concerned shall thereupon become
vacant.
127.
Motion of no-confidence.
(1)
A motion of no-confidence may be moved by any member of a Panchayat against the Sarpanch or the Upa-Sarpanch,
after giving such notice thereof as may be prescribed.
(2)
If the motion is carried by a majority of not less than two-third of the total number of the then member of the Panchayat,
the Sarpanch or the Upa-Sarpanch, as the case may be, shall cease to hold office, after a period of three days from the
date on which the motion was carried, unless he has resigned earlier, and thereupon the office held, by such Sarpanch
or Upa-Sarpanch, shall be deemed to be vacant.
(3)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Chapter or the rules and regulations made thereunder, a Sarpanch or an
Upa-Sarpanch shall not preside over a meeting in which a motion of no-confidence is discussed against him; but he
shall have a right to speak or otherwise to take part in the proceedings of such a meeting (including the right to vote).
(4)
In cases the offices of both the Sarpanch and Upa-Sarpanch become vacant simultaneously, the Board may appoint an
officer, pending the nomination of another Sarpanch and Upa-Sarpanch, to exercise all the powers and perform all the
functions and duties of the Sarpanch, but such officer shall not have the right to vote in any meeting of the Panchayat.
128.
Meeting of Panchayat and procedure to be followed.
- The Panchayat shall meet at such intervals and follow such procedure for its meetings as may be prescribed.
129.
Powers of Sarpanch and Upa-Sarpanch.
- The Sarpanch and the Upa-Sarpanch shall exercise such powers and perform such functions as may be prescribed.
130.
Removal from office.
(1)
The Board may with the approval of the Authority remove from office any member including the Sarpanch or
Upa-Sarpanch, who has been guilty of misconduct or neglect of, or incapacity to perform his duty, or is persistently
remiss in the discharge thereof:
Provided that, no such person shall be removed from office, unless the Chairman or any other officer of the Board
authorised by him in this behalf holds an enquiry after giving due notice to the Panchayat and the person concerned;
and the person concerned has been given a reasonable opportunity of being heard and thereafter, the Chairman or the
said officer, as the case may be, submits his report to the Board.
(2)
Where a person is removed from office of the Sarpanch, Upa-Sarpanch or member, he shall not be eligible for
renomination as Sarpanch, Upa-Sarpanch or member, during the remainder of the term of the office of members of the
Panchayat.
131.
Filling-up of vacancies.
- If any vacancy occurs due to the disablement, death, resignation, disqualification, absence without leave or removal or
otherwise of a Sarpanch or Upa-Sarpanch or other member, it shall be filled by nomination of another Sarpanch or
Upa-Sarpanch or member, who shall hold office so long only as the Sarpanch or Upa-Sarpanch or member in whose
Page 58/128
----- PAGE 59 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
place he has been nominated, would have held office if the vacancy had not occurred .
132.
Vacancy not to affect proceedings of Panchayat.
(1)
During any vacancy in the Panchayat, the continuing members may act as if no vacancy had occurred.
(2)
The Panchayat shall have power to act notwithstanding any vacancy in the membership or any defect in the constitution
thereof; and such proceedings of the Panchayat shall be valid notwithstanding that it is discovered subsequently that
some person who was not entitled to do so at or voted or otherwise took part in the proceedings.
(3)
No act or proceedings of a Panchayat shall be deemed to be invalid on account of any defect or irregularity in any such
act or proceedings not affecting the merits of the case or on account of any irregularity in the service of notice upon any
member or for mere informality.
133.
Dissolution or supersession of Panchayat for default.
(1)
If, in the opinion of the Board Panchayat exceeds or abuses its powers or is incompetent to perform, or makes persistent
default in the performance of the duties imposed on it or functions entrusted to it, by or under this Chapter or fails to
obey an order made by the Board, the Board, may, with the approval of the Authority, after giving the Panchayat an
opportunity of rendering an explanation, by order in the Official Gazette-
(i)
dissolve such Panchayat, or
(ii)
supersede such Panchayat for the period specified in the order.
(2)
When a Panchayat is so dissolved or superseded, the following consequences shall ensue, that is to say :-
(a)
all members of the Panchayat shall, in the case of dissolution, as from the date specified in the order of dissolution, and
in the case of supersession, as from the date of the order of supersession, vacate their office as such member;
(b)
all powers and duties of the Panchayat shall, during the period of dissolution or supersession, be exercised and
performed by such person or persons as the Board may, from time to time, appoint in that behalf;
(c)
all property vested in the Panchayat shall, during the period of dissolution or supersession, vest in the Board.
Functions of the Panchayat, Finance and Control
134.
Duties of Panchayat.
- Where the Board entrusts all or any of its powers or duties under clauses (b), (c), (d) and (e) of section 104 to a
Panchayat, the Panchayat shall, subject to the superintendence, direction and control of the Board,-
(a)
undertake the works of maintenance and repairs in respect of any improvement works executed by the Board and
handed over to the Panchayat for maintenance;
(b)
collect service charges in connection with the maintenance of improvement works handed over by the Board to the
Panchayat;
(c)
recover compensation from the occupiers of Government lands falling within the jurisdiction of the Panchayat;
(d)
report to the Board forthwith any damage done to the improvement works; and
(e)
do all other things which the Board may from time to time require it to do. The rate of service to be recovered under
Page 59/128
----- PAGE 60 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
clause (b) of this section shall be determined by the Board, and the rate of compensation to be recovered under clause
(c) of this section shall be determined by the State Government.
135.
Certain services to be provided by local authority and Panchayat to be responsible for collection and payment of taxes,
fees and charges.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in any law governing the local authority concerned, a Municipal Corporation, a
Municipal Council or any other local authority having jurisdiction in any slum improvement area, shall provide water
supply and drainage and scavenging, cleansing, lighting and other services, in the said area, as it provides in other
areas within its jurisdiction, and also such additional services, as the Board may in respect of any slum improvement
area specify in this behalf.
(2)
Where there is a Panchayat, the Panchayat shall be responsible to the local authority to collect from the occupiers and
other persons liable therefor the taxes, fees and charges due for the services so provided, and to arrange to pay the
amount due from time to time to the local authority concerned.
136.
Use of property assigned or entrusted by Board.
(1)
The Board may assign or entrust to the Panchayat any property, whether moveable or immoveable, for use by the
Panchayat, for the purposes of this Chapter on such terms and conditions as may be specified by the Board on behalf of
the Authority. It shall be the duty of the Panchayat to use such property for the purpose for which it is assigned or
entrusted.
(2)
With the approval of the Board, a Panchayat, may utilise any open space in the slum improvement area for common
purposes such as those specified in clause (f) of section 109.
137.
Violation of direction under section 112(1).
- The Panchayat shall ensure that the no new building is erected within its jurisdiction in contravention of any direction
issued by the Board under sub-section (1) of section 112. If any new building is so erected, the Panchayat shall
immediately make a report to the Board.
138.
Assistance to Board for carrying out demolition.
- The Panchayat shall assist the Board in carrying out demolition of any building under section 113.
139.
Contracts.
(1)
For the purposes of this Chapter, the Sarpanch shall be competent to make and execute on behalf of the Panchayat,
any contract with any person :
Provided that, no contract shall be made unless specifically authorised by the Panchayat by passing resolution to that
effect, and no contract involving an expenditure exceeding Rs. 1,000 shall be made without the previous sanction of the
Chairman.
(2)
Every contract shall be entered into in such manner and form as may be prescribed.
140.
Recovery of compensation, service charges etc.
(1)
When any compensation, service charges, tax, fee on other sum has become due, which a Panchayat is authorised to
collect under this Chapter, the Panchayat shall, with the least practicable delay, cause to be presented to the person
liable for the payment thereof a bill for the amount due from him, specifying the details of the claims and the date on or
before which the amount shall be paid.
(2)
Page 60/128
----- PAGE 61 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
If any person fails to pay the amount due on or before the specified date, the Panchayat shall cause a writ of demand in
the prescribed form to be served on the defaulter.
(3)
The presentation of every bill under sub-section (1) and the service of every writ of demand under sub-section (2) shall
be effected by an officer or servant of a Panchayat in this behalf -
(a)
by giving or tendering the bill or writ to the person to whom it is addressed; or
(b)
if such person is not found, by leaving the bill or writ at his last known place of abode, if within the limits of the
Panchayat by giving or tendering the bill or writ to some adult male member or servant of his family; or
(c)
if such person does not reside within the limits of the Panchayat, and his address elsewhere is known to the Sarpanch
or other person directing the issue of the bill or writ, then by forwarding the bill or writ to such person by registered post,
under cover bearing the said address; or
(d)
if none of the means aforesaid be available, then by causing the bill or writ to be affixed on some conspicuous part of the
building or land, if any, to which the bill or writ relates in the presence of at least two Panchas.
(4)
If the amount for which a writ of demand has been served is not paid within thirty days from the date of such service, the
Panchayat may recover such sum by distraint and sale of the moveable property of the defaulter in the prescribed
manner.
(5)
If a Panchayat is unable to recover the amount due as aforesaid, it may furnish to the Board a statement of the arrears
due with a request for the recovery of the same, and the Board shall proceed against the person to recover the same as
if they are arrears of land revenue.
(6)
For any amount recovered by the Panchayat under this section, a written receipt shall be given to the person concerned
in such form and in such manner as may be prescribed.
141.
Panchayat Fund.
(1)
For every Panchayat there shall be a fund, which shall be called the Panchayat fund.
(a)
The following shall be paid or deposited into the Panchayat Fund, namely :-
(b)
the proceeds of service charges collected under clause (b) of section 134;
(c)
the proceeds of compensation collected under clause (c) of section 134;
(d)
the proceeds of any taxes, fees or charges due to a local authority collected under section 135;
(d)
all sums received from the Board on behalf of the Authority;
(e)
all sums received by the Panchayat from other sources by way of grant, gift and contribution or otherwise.
142.
Application of Panchayat Fund.
- All sums received by a Panchayat in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter shall be applied subject to the
provisions and for the purposes of this Chapter and all such sums and the Panchayat Fund shall be kept in such custody
as may be prescribed.
143.
Appointment of servants.
Page 61/128
----- PAGE 62 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
(1)
A Panchayat may, with the approval of the Board, appoint such servant as may be necessary for the proper discharge of
its duties under this Chapter and pay their salaries and allowances from the Panchayat Fund. The Panchayat may, from
time to time by written order, fine, suspend, remove or dismiss any servant appointed by it :
Provided that, no such order shall be passed by the Panchayat unless the servant is given a reasonable opportunity of
being heard.
(2)
An appeal shall lie against any such order passed by the Panchayat to the Chairman or any officer of the Board
authorised by him in this behalf, within one month from the date of communication of the order to the servant, and the
decision of the Chairman or the said officer, as the case may be, shall be final:
Provided that, no such appeal shah be decided unless the servant is given at reasonable opportunity of being heard.
144.
Budget and accounts.
(1)
A Panchayat shall submit annually to the Board on or before such date and in such form as may be prescribed a
statement of -
(a)
the opening balance in the Panchayat fund and the estimated receipts by the Panchayat for the following year;
(b)
the expenditure proposed on establishment and discharge of its duties.
(2)
The Board shall within two months from the date of receipt of such statement either approve the same or direct that the
proposed expenditure on any of the duties be increased or decreased:
Provided that, if the Board fails either to approve -such statement or to direct that the expenditure on any of the duties
be increased or decreased, within two months from the date of receipt of such statement, the statement shall be
deemed to have been duly approved by the Board.
(3)
The Sarpanch shall keep or cause to be kept the accounts of the Panchayat in such form as may be prescribed. He
shall prepare an annual report of the administration of the Panchayat and shall place the accounts and the report for
approval before the Panchayat. The annual statement of such accounts together with the annual report as approved
shall be sent to the Board on or before such date and in such form as may be prescribed.
145.
Power to call for proceedings, etc.
- The Board shall have power -
(a)
to call for any proceedings of a Panchayat or an extract therefrom, any book or document in the possession or under the
control of a Panchayat, and any return, statement, account or report which the Board thinks fit to require such
Panchayat to furnish; and
(b)
to require a Panchayat to take into consideration-
(i)
any objection which appears to the Board to exist to the doing of anything which is about to be done, or is being done,
by such Panchayat; or
(ii)
any information which the Board is able to furnish and which appears to the Board to necessitate the doing of a certain
thing by the Panchayat, and to submit a written reply to the Board within a reasonable time stating its reasons for not
desisting from doing or for not doing such things.
146.
Power of Chairman or any officer to inspect office of Panchayat.
- The Chairman or any other officer authorised by him in writing in this behalf may at all reasonable times enter the office
of any Panchayat and inspect any records, register or other document kept therein; and the Panchayat shall comply with
Page 62/128
----- PAGE 63 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
the inspection notes, if any, made by the Chairman or, as the case may be, such officer.
147.
Power of authorised officer or person to inspect and give technical guidance.
- If for the purpose of efficient and economical maintenance of any works undertaken by a Panchayat, an officer or
person authorised by general or special order of the Board considers it necessary for that purpose to give technical
guidance or assistance to the Panchayat, then the officer or person so authorised may periodically inspect such works
and may give such guidance, assistance or advice as he thinks necessary in relation to such works; and shall forward to
the Sarpanch through the Chairman, a report on the inspection made, pointing out therein any irregularities noticed, and
his suggestions for improvement.
148.
Audit of accounts of Panchayat.
(1)
The audit of the accounts of a Panchayat shall be carried out by the State Government in such manner as it deems fit
and a copy of the audit note shall be forwarded to the Board and the Panchayat, within two months of the completion of
the audit.
(2)
On receipt of the audit note referred to in sub-section (1), the Panchayat, shall either remedy and defects or
irregularities, which may have been pointed out in the audit note and send to the Board within two months an intimation
of its having done so, or shall, within the said period, supply to the Board any further explanation in regard to such
defects or irregularities as it may wish to give.
(3)
On receipt of such intimation or explanation, the Board may, in respect of all or any of the matters discussed in the audit
note,-
(a)
accept the intimation or explanation given by the Panchayat and recommend to the Authority to drop the objection;
(b)
suggest that the matter be reinvestigated at the next audit or at any earlier date, or
(c)
hold that the defects or irregularities pointed out in the audit note or any of them have not been removed or remedied.
(4)
The Board shall send a report of its decision to the Authority with one month of the date of receipt by it of the intimation
or explanation referred to in subsection (2), or in the event of the Panchayat failing to give such intimation or explanation
on the expiry of the period of two months referred to in the said subsection (2), and shall forward a copy of such report to
the auditor, and the Panchayat. If the Board holds that any defects or irregularities have not been removed or remedied,
the Board shall state in the report whether in its opinion the defects or irregularities can be regularised, and if so, by
what method, and if they do not admit of being regularised, whether they can be condoned, and if so, by what authority.
The Board shay also state whether the amounts to which the defects or irregularities relate should in its opinion be
surcharged or charged as hereinafter provided.
(5)
The Authority may, after considering the report of the Board and after making such further enquiry as it considers
necessary, disallow any time which appears to it to be contrary to law and surcharge the same on the person making or
authorising the making of thy, illegal payment, and may charge against any person responsible therefor the amount or
any deficiency or loss caused by the gross negligence or misconduct of that person, or, any sum received, which ought
to have been, but is not, brought into accounts, by that person, and-
(a)
if the person on whom the surcharge or charge is made be a member, direct the Board to proceed against him in the
manner provided in subsections (2) and (3) of section 151; and
(b)
if the person on whom the surcharge or charge is made is not a member, then after taking his explanation direct by
order in writing that such person shall pay to the Panchayat the amount surcharged or charged, and if the amount is not
so paid within one month, the State Government may recover as arrears of land revenue and credit it to the Panchayat
Page 63/128
----- PAGE 64 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
fund.
(6)
Any person aggrieved by an order of surcharge or charge made under this section may, within one month from the
receipt by him of the decision of the State Government, apply in Greater Bombay to the City Civil Court, and elsewhere,
to the District Court to modify or set aside such order; and the Court after taking such evidence as it thinks necessary,
may confirm, modify or remit such surcharge or charge and make such order as to costs as it thinks proper in the
circumstances. The order made by the Court shall be final,
149.
Execution of works in case of emergency.
(1)
In cases of emergency, the Board may provide for the execution of any work or the doing of any act which a Panchayat
is empowered to execute or do, and the immediate execution or doing whereof is, in its opinion, necessary for the health
or safety of the public, and may direct that the expense of executing the work or doing the act shall be forthwith paid by
the Panchayat:
Provided that, the Board may direct the Panchayat to pay the amount of actual expenses or an amount not exceeding
10 per cent of the annual income of the Panchayat for the year immediately preceding, whichever is less.
(2)
If the expenses are not so paid, the Board may, by order, direct the person in whose custody the Panchayat fund is kept
to pay such expense or so much thereof as is possible, from the balance of such fund in his hands, and such person
shall comply with such directions. Any payment made pursuant to such order shall be a sufficient discharge to such
person from all liability to the Panchayat in respect of the sum so paid.
150.
Panchayat to conform to instructions given by Board.
- A Panchayat shall conform to any instructions that may, from time to time, be given by the Authority or Board, in the
execution by the Panchayat of its duties and functions under this Chapter.
151.
Liability of members for loss, waste or misapplication.
(1)
Every member of a Panchayat shall be personally liable for the loss, waste or misapplication of any money or other
property of the Panchayat to which he has been party or which has been caused or facilitated by his misconduct, gross
neglect of his duty as a member.
(2)
If after giving the member concerned a reasonable opportunity for showing cause to the contrary, the Board is satisfied
that the loss, waste or misapplication of any money or other property of the Panchayat is a direct consequence of
misconduct or gross neglect on his part, the Board shall by order in writing direct such member to pay to the Panchayat
before a fixed date, the amount required to reimburse it for such loss, waste or misapplication.
(3)
If the amount is not so paid, it shall be recoverable as arrears of land revenue on a certificate of an officer appointed by
the State Government in this behalf and when recovered, the Board shall credit it to the Panchayat fund.
(4)
Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Board under this section may apply to the Court as provided in sub-section
(6) of section 148, within the like time for redress of his grievance and that Court may pass any order thereon which it
can pass under that section.
152.
Entry for purposes of this Chapter.
- It shall be lawful for any person authorised by a Panchayat in this behalf to enter into or upon any building or land in a
slum improvement area for the purposes of exercising any powers conferred or duties imposed on the Panchayat, and
to execute necessary works authorised by or under this Chapter.
Other powers of the Authority under this Chapter
153.
Powers of inspection
Page 64/128
----- PAGE 65 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
- The Authority may, by general or special order, authorise any person,-
(a)
to inspect any drain, latrine, urinal, cesspool, pipe, sewer or channel in or on any building or land in a slum improvement
area and in his discretion, to cause the ground to be opened for the purpose of preventing or removing any nuisance
arising from the drain, latrine, urinal, cesspool, pipe, sewer or channel, as the case may be;
(b)
to examine works under construction in a slum improvement area, to take levels or to remove, test, examine, replace or
read any metre.
After such inspection and taking necessary action for preventing or removing the nuisance, if any, the ground and other
works which are opened shall be filled in, reinstated or made good, as the case may be.
154.
Power to enter land adjoining land where work is in progress.
(1)
Any person authorised by a Board in this behalf may, with or without assistants or workmen, enter on any land within
one hundred metres of any work authorised by or under this Chapter for the purpose of depositing thereon any soil,
gravel, stone or other materials, or for obtaining access to such work or for any other purposes connected with the
carrying on of the same.
(2)
The person so authorised shall, before entering on any land under subsection (1) state the purpose thereof, and shall, if
so required by the occupier or owner, fence off so much of the land as may be required for such purpose.
(3)
The person so authorised shall, in exercising any power conferred by this section, do as little damage as may be and
compensation shall be payable by the Board on behalf of the Authority to the owner or occupier of such land or to both
for any such damage, whether permanent or temporary.
155.
Power to enter any place.
- It shall be lawful for any person authorised in writing by a Board in this behalf to make an entry into any place, to open
or cause to be opened gate or any door, other barrier-
(a)
if he considers the opening thereof necessary for the purpose of such entry; and
(b)
if the owner or occupier is absent, or being present, refuses to open such door, gate or barrier.
156.
Occupier's or owner's consent ordinarily to be obtained.
- Save as provided in this Chapter, no building or land shall be entered without the consent of the occupier or, if there be
no occupier, of the owner thereof, and no such entry shall be made without giving such occupier or owner, as the case
may be, not less than twenty-four hours, written notice of the intention to make such an entry:
Provided that, no such notice shall be necessary, if the place to be inspected is a shed for cattle or a latrine, urinal or a
work under construction.
157.
Power to remove offensive or dangerous trades from slum improvement areas.
- A Board may, by order in writing, direct any person carrying on any dangerous or offensive trade in a slum
improvement area to remove the trade from that area within such time as may be specified in the order:
Provided that, no order under this section shall be made unless the person carrying on such trade has been given a
reasonable opportunity of showing cause as to why the order should not be made.
158.
Penalties.
(1)
Whoever fails to comply with any notice, order or direction issued or given under this Chapter shall, on conviction, be
punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three months, or with fine which may extend to one
thousand rupees, or with both.
Page 65/128
----- PAGE 66 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
(2)
Whoever commences or causes to be commenced any work in contravention of section 112, or of any terms of
conditions imposed under sub-section (3) of that section, shall, on conviction, be punished with imprisonment for a term
which may extend to six months, and with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees.
(3)
Whoever obstructs the entry of any person authorised by or under this Chapter to enter into or upon any building or land
or molests such person after such entry or incites or instigates or abets such obstruction or molestation shall, on
conviction, be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three months, and with fine which may
extend to one thousand rupees.
(4)
If a person committing an offence under this Chapter is a company, every person who at the time the offence is
committed was in charge of, and was responsible to the company for the conduct of the business of the company as
well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly:
Provided that, nothing contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable to any punishment provided in
this Chapter, if he proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge or that he exercised all due diligence to
prevent the commission of such offence.
(5)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (4) where an offence under this Chapter has been committed by a
company and it is proved that the offence has been committed with the consent or connivance of, or is attributable to
any neglect on the part of, any director or manager, secretary or other officer of the company, such director, manager,
secretary or other officer shall also be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against
and punished accordingly.
Explanation. - For the purposes of this section-
(a)
"company" means a body corporate and includes a firm or other association of individuals; and
(b)
"director" in relation to a firm means a partner in the firm.
159.
Cesser of corresponding law.
- Where any area is declared to be a slum improvement area, then as from the date of such declaration, the provisions
of any law corresponding to the provisions of this Act, in relation to the slum improvement area shall, save as otherwise
provided in this Chapter, cease to be in force in the slum improvement area.
The provisions of this Chapter shall not be taken to effect any property rights in any of the areas to which this Chapter
applies; nor shall the provisions by or under this Chapter of any amenities be deemed to legalise what is otherwise
illegal by or under any other law for the time being in force.
Chapter X
[Provisions of Loans]
[This heading was substituted by Maharashtra 12 of 1989, Section 14.]
160.
Advance loans by Authority.
- The Authority may advance loans for the purposes of [purchase of any land developed by the Authority, or of purchase,
on such terms as the Authority may, with the approval of the State Government, determine, of any building or tenement
therein constructed by the Authority, or of construction of houses on land developed by the Authority, or of improvement,
renovation or carrying out any extension to any house or but constructed on any Authority premises]
[This portion was substituted for the words 'construction of houses on lands developed by it' by Maharashtra 4 of 1985,
Section 4(a).]
to, -
(i)
Co-operative societies;
(ii)
Page 66/128
----- PAGE 67 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
societies registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860;
(iii)
public trusts registered under the Bombay Public Trusts Act, 1950;
(iv)
local authorities;
(v)
companies or occupiers of factories registered under any law for the time being in force, for housing the employees of
the company or workers of [factories; or]
[These words were substituted for the words, 'the factories', by Maharashtra 4 of 1985, Section 4(b).]
(vi)
[ any individual.]
[Clause (vi) was added, by Maharashtra 4 of 1985, Section 4(c).]
161.
Terms and conditions for advancing of loans.
- Loans under section 160 may be advanced on such terms and conditions as may be determined by regulations.
162.
Loan Advance Reserve Fund.
- Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, there shall be a separate reserve fund maintained by the Authority
called the Loan Advance Reserve Fund for the purposes aforesaid. This fund shall be operated in such manner as the
Authority may with the previous approval of the State Government from time to time determine.
163.
Money borrowed for advancing loans not to be utilised for other purposes.
- Whenever any sum of money has been borrowed by the Authority for the purposes of advance of loans, no portion
thereof shall be applied to any. other purposes without the pervious sanction of the State Government.
163A.
[ Assistance for obtaining loans from banks or finance institutions. - (1) In order to enable the Authority to carry out any
of its proposals, plans, schemes or projects, the Authority may, on receipt of an application to that effect, assist
co-operative housing societies or members thereof or individual allottees, as the case may be, in obtaining loans from a
Co-operative Bank or a scheduled Bank or from a finance institution for the purposes of purchase of any land developed
by the Authority, or of purchase of any building or a tenement therein constructed by the Authority or of construction of
houses on land developed by the Authority or for improvement, renovation or carrying out any extension to any house or
but constructed on any authority premises or provision of any common amenities or facilities to the members of
co-operative societies.
(2)
Assistance by the Authority to obtain a loan under sub-section (1) shall, in addition to the usual terms and conditions laid
down by a Co-operative Bank or a Scheduled Bank or a finance institution in that behalf, also be subject to such
additional terms and conditions as may be determined by regulations.
(3)
The terms and conditions of the grant of loan and of the mortgage deed to be executed by the borrower in favour of the
creditor Bank or the finance institution for the purposes of loan shall be in consonance with the terms and conditions
determined by regulations as provided under sub-section (2) and any terms and conditions inconsistent with the terms
and conditions so determined shall be deemed to be void and inoperative.
(4)
For avoidance of doubt, it is hereby declared that nothing in this section shall preclude the creditor Bank or the finance
institution to take any action available to it under the provisions of any other law for the time being in force for the
recovery of its dues under this section and that the provisions of. this section in that respect shall be in addition to and
not in derogation of such other provision of law.
Explanation. - For the purposes of this section, the expressions-
(a)
"purchase of land" shall include obtaining land on lease on payment of any premium or any other consideration;
(b)
Page 67/128
----- PAGE 68 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
"Scheduled Bank" means a bank included in the Second Schedule to the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934;
(c)
"finance institution" means any public finance institution, such as Housing and Urban Development Corporation, Housing
Development Finance Corporation, Life -Insurance Corporation of India and General Insurance Corporation of India,
which provide loans to any individual or any co-operative housing society.]
Chapter XI
Control
164.
Power of State Government to give directions and instructions and to suspend resolutions and orders.
(1)
The State Government may from time to time issue such directions or instructions as it may think fit in regard to finances
and conduct of business and affairs of the Authority or any Board and the Authority and such Board shall be bound to
follow and act upon these directions or instructions.
(2)
(a)
Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provision, if the State Government is of opinion that the execution of
any resolution or order of the Authority.or of any Board is in contravention of, or in excess of, the powers conferred by or
under this Act or any other law for the time being in force, or is likely to lead to abuse or misuse of or to cause waste of
the Fund of the Authority, the State Government may, in the public interest, by order in writing, suspend the execution of
such resolution or order. A copy of such order shall be sent forthwith by the State Government to the Authority and its
Chief Executive Officer and the Board concerned and its Chief Officer.
(b)
On receipt of the order sent as aforesaid, the Authority, or the Board, as the case may be, shall be bound to follow and
act upon such order.
165.
Power of State Government to order inquiries.
(1)
The State Government may, with a view to satisfying itself that the powers and duties of the Authority or any of its
Boards are being exercised and performed properly, at any time, appoint any person or persons to make inquiries into
all or any of the activities of the Authority or the Boards, as the case may be, and to report to the State Government the
result of such inquiries.
(2)
The Authority or the Board shall give to the person or persons so appointed all facilities for the proper conduct of the
inquiries and shall produce before such person Or persons any document, account or information in the possession of
the Authority or the Board, which such person or persons demand for the purposes of the inquiries.
166.
Reconstitution of Authority or Board.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the State Government, if it is of opinion that is expedient for any reason
to reconstitute the Authority or any Board which is duly constituted under this act, then it may, by notification in the
Official Gazette, direct that the Authority or Board specified in the notification and functioning immediately before the
date of such notification shall cease to function, and reconstitute such Authority or Board as provided in section 6, or as
the case may be, section 18 of this Act.
(2)
The opinion formed by the State Government under this section to reconstitute the Authority or any Board shall be final
and conclusive and shall not be called in question in any court.
167.
Default in performance of duty.
(1)
If the State Government is satisfied that the Authority or any Board has made default in performing any duty imposed on
it by or under this Act it may fix a period for the performance of that duty.
Page 68/128
----- PAGE 69 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
(2)
If in the opinion of the State Government, the Authority or the Board fails or neglects to perform such duty within the
period so fixed for its performance, it shall be lawful for the State Government, notwithstanding anything contained in
section 6 or 18, to supersede and reconstitute the Authority, or as the case may be, the Board in the prescribed manner.
(3)
After the supersession of the Authority or the Board and until it is reconstituted, the powers, duties and functions of the
Authority or Board under this Act, shall be exercised and performed by the State Government or by such officer or
officers as the State Government may appoint for this purpose.
(4)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this section, if the Authority is satisfied that any Board is not performing any duty
imposed on it by or under this Act to secure efficient implementation thereof, the Authority may recommend to the State
Government that the Board may be dissolved. On receipt of such recommendation, the State Government may dissolve
the Board and either appoint an Administrative Officer to exercise all the powers and perform all the duties of the Board
or appoint another Board to exercise such powers and perform such duties.
168.
Power to appoint Administrator.
(1)
If it appear to the State Government that the Authority is unable to exercise the powers or perform or discharge the
duties or functions conferred or imposed upon it by or under this Act, or that majority of the members has resigned or the
term of office of the members has expired and the State Government does not consider it expedient to reconstitute the
Authority or fill the vacancies, the State Government may, notwithstanding anything contained in section 6 or any other
provision of this Act, by notification in the Official Gazette, in place of the Authority constituted under section 6, appoint
an Administrator for such period or periods, as may be determined by the State Government. After the expiry of his term
of office the Administrator shall continue in office until the day immediately preceding the date of the first meeting of the
Authority, duly reconstituted in accordance with provisions of section 6.
(2)
The Administrator so appointed shall be deemed to constitute the Authority for the time being, and shall exercise all the
powers and perform and discharge all the duties and functions conferred and imposed upon the Authority or any of its
authorities, members or officer, by or under this Act, or any other law for the time being in force.
(3)
The Administrator shall receive such remuneration from the fund of the Authority, and the other conditions of service
shall be such, as the State Government may determine.
(4)
The Administrator may, subject to the general or special order of the State Government, delegate any of the powers,
duties and functions exercisable or to be performed by him, to any officer or officers of the Authority specified in the
order:
Provided that, nothing in this section shall affect the powers, duties or functions entrusted to any Board under this Act.
169.
Dissolution of Authority.
(1)
The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, declare that, with effect from such date as may be
specified in the notification, the Authority shall stand dissolved:
Provided that, no such declaration shall be made by the State Government unless a resolution to that effect has been
moved in, and passed by, the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly.
(2)
With effect from the date specified in the notification under subsection (1)-
(a)
all the members shall vacate their office;
(b)
all properties, funds and dues which are vested in or realisable by the Authority shall vest in, and be realisable, by the
State Government;
Page 69/128
----- PAGE 70 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
(c)
all liabilities enforceable against the Authority shall be enforceable against the State Government to the extent of the
properties, funds, and dues vested in, or realised by the State Government.
(3)
Nothing in this section shall affect the liability of the State Government in respect of loans or debentures guaranteed
under sub-section (5) of section 36.
Chapter XII
Miscellaneous
170.
Annual and other reports.
(1)
The Authority shall submit, in respect of each year an annual report to the State Government, in such form and before
such date in the next succeeding year as the State Government may determine.
(2)
The annual report, after it is approved by the State Government, shall be laid before each House of the State
Legislature, as far as possible before the expiry of the year next succeeding the year to which it relates.
171.
Other statements and returns.
- The Authority shall also submit to the State Government such statistics, returns, particulars, statements, documents or
papers in regard to any proposal, plan or project undertaken under this Act or relating to any matter or proceedings
connected with the working of the Authority at such time and in such form and manner as may be determined by the
State Government, or as the State Government may from time to time direct.
172.
Power of entry.
- Without prejudice to any provisions regarding entry elsewhere in any other provisions of this Act, it shall be lawful for
any person authorised by the Authority in this behalf to enter into, or upon any building or land for the purposes of this
Act, with or without assistants or workmen, in order to make any inquiry, inspection, census, measurement, valuation or
survey or to execute any work which is authorised by or under this Act or which it is necessary to execute for any of the
purposes of this Act or of any notice, rule, regulation, order, proposal, plan or project, or any instrument made
thereunder:
Provided that no such entry shall be made between sunset and sunrise.
173.
Notice of suit against Authority, etc.
- No person shall commence any suit against the Authority or against any member of the Authority or of any Board or of
any Panchayat or any officer or servant of the Authority or Panchayat or any person acting under the orders of the
Authority or Board, or Panchayat for anything done or purporting to have been done in pursuance of this Act (including
any contract thereunder), without giving to the Authority, member, officer or servant or person two months previous
notice in writing of the intended suit and of the cause thereof, nor after six months from the date of the act complained
of.
And in the case of any such suit for damages, if tender of sufficient amends shall have been made before the action is
brought, the plaintiff shall not recover more than the amount so tendered and shall pay all costs incurred by the
defendant after such tender.
174.
Members of Authority or Board of Panchayat, employees of Authority or Panchayat to be public servants.
- All members of the Authority or any Board or any Panchayat and all employees of the Authority or Panchayat shall be
deemed, when acting or purporting to act in pursuance of any of the provisions of this Act to be public servants within
the meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code.
175.
Protection of action taken in good faith.
- No suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall lie against any members of the Authority or Board or Panchayat or
any employees of the Authority or Panchayat for anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done under this
Page 70/128
----- PAGE 71 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
Act, or any rule, regulation, order, proposal, plan or project or any instrument made under this Act.
176.
Power of prosecution.
- Unless otherwise expressly provided, no court shall take cognisance of any offence punishable under this Act except
on the complaint of, or upon information received from, the Authority or some person authorised by the Authority by
general or special order in this behalf.
177.
Bar of Jurisdiction.
- Save as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, no civil court shall have jurisdiction in respect of any matter which the
Authority or the Tribunal is empowered by or under this Act, to determine; and no injunction or say shall be granted by
any court or other authority in respect of any action taken or to be taken in pursuance of any power conferred or duty
imposed by or under this Act.
178.
Compounding offences.
(1)
The Chief Executive Officer or any of the officers who may be authorised by him in this behalf by general or special
order may, either before or after the institution of the proceedings, compound any offence punishable under this Act.
(2)
When an offence has been compounded, the offender, if in custody, shall be discharged; and no further proceedings
shall be taken against him in respect of the offence compounded.
179.
Authority to enforce certain contracts or agreements.
- All contracts, agreements and other instruments of whatever nature subsisting or having effect immediately before the
date of constitution of the Authority and to which an existing Board was a party shall be of full force and effect against or
in favour of the Authority and may be enforced and acted upon fully and effectively as if instead of the existing Boards,
the Authority had been a party thereto or as if they had been entered into or issued in favour of the existing Board for the
purposes of the Authority.
180.
Recovery of sums due to existing Board or Authority as arrears of land revenue.
- Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, all sums payable to any existing Board immediately before the
appointed date or to the Authority by any person or recoverable by it by or under the provisions of this Act and all
charges and expenses incurred in connection therewith shall, without prejudice to any other mode of recovery, or
otherwise provided by or under this Act, be recoverable as arrears of land revenue on the application of the Authority.
181.
Powers to delegate.
(1)
The Authority may, by general or special order, delegate any power exercisable by it or any function to be discharged or
any duty to be performed by it by or under this Act to any of its officers [or to any Board or to any officers of the Board]
[These words were substituted for the words 'or to any Board' by Maharashtra 12 of 1989, Section 16(a).]
on such terms and conditions as may be specified in such order.
(2)
[ The Authority may, by general or special order, delegate any power exercisable by a Board by or under this Act to any
of its officers or to any officers of the Board on such terms and conditions as may be specified in such order.
(3)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) or (2), the State Government may, by order in writing, direct the
Authority to delegate,-
(i)
such of its powers and functions conferred or imposed on it by or under this Act to the Board or such other authority or
any officer of the Authority or of the Board; or
(ii)
such of the powers and functions conferred or imposed on the Board by or under this Act to such other authority or any
Page 71/128
----- PAGE 72 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
officer of the Authority or of the Board,
as may be specified in the order, and it shall be duty of the Authority to follow and act upon such order.]
[These sub-sections were substituted for sub-section (2), by Maharashtra 12 of 1989, Section 16(b).]
182.
Penalty for obstruction, etc.
- If any person-
(a)
obstructs, or molests any person with whom the Authority has entered into a contract, in the performance or execution
by such person of his duty or of anything which he is empowered or required to do under this Act, or
(b)
removes any mark set up for the purpose of indicating any level or direction necessary to the execution of works
authorised under this Act,
he shall, on conviction, be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three months or with fine which
may extend to five hundred rupees or with both.
183.
Removal of difficulty.
- If any difficulty arise in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the State Government may, as occasion arises, by
order do anything which appears to it to be necessary for the purpose of removing the difficulty.
Chapter XIII
Rules, Regulations and Bye-Laws
184.
Powers to make rules.
(1)
The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, [prospectively or retrospectively with effect from such
date, as it may specify in such notification]
[These words were substituted for the words 'made rules' section 1 (w.e.f. 9-5-2002).]
for the purpose of carrying into effect the provisions of this Act.
(2)
In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the provisions of sub-section (1), such rules, may provide for all or
any of the following matters, namely :-
(i)
for regulating the mode of recruitment including provisions for absorption or promotion of persons already working in any
Board and for providing terminal benefits under sub-section (5) of section 19;
(ii)
conditions to be prescribed under sub-section (1) including issue of debentures under sub-section (2) of section 36;
(iii)
the manner of maintenance of the books of account and the preparation of the annual statement of accounts of the
Authority under sub-section (1) of section 39;
(iv)
the manner of service of the notice under the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 41;
(v)
the manner of holding the inquiry by the Land Acquisition Officer and service of notice on the owner of the land, under
sub-section (5) of section 44;
(vi)
the period within which the betterment charges proposed by the Authority to be accepted by the person concerned,
under sub-section (3) of section 54;
(vii)
the rate on interest to be charged on any outstanding payment of the Authority under sub-section (1) of section 55;
(viii)
the rules subject to which the Authority may retain, lease, sell, exchange, or otherwise dispose of any land, etc. under
section 64;
Page 72/128
----- PAGE 73 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
(ix)
the other manner in which a notice under sub-section (1) of section 66 may be given
(x)
the manner of publication of notice under sub-section (4) of section 66;
(xi)
[the penalty to be imposed]
[These words were substituted for the words 'the manner of levying penalty' by Maharashtra 12 of 1989, Section 17.]
for default in the payment of rent or compensation under Explanation II to section 66;
(xii)
the rules subject to which the recovery of rent, compensation or damages may be recovered as arrears of land revenue
under sub-section (1) of section 67;
(xiii)
the other matters in respect of which the Competent Authority shall have in powers of the civil court under the Code of
Civil Procedure, 1908, under section 69;
(xiv)
the manner in which the rebate shall be claimed by, and paid to the Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay, under
sub-section (2) of section 85;
(xv)
regulating all matters connected with [the Mumbai Building Repairs and Reconstruction fund]
[These words were substituted for the original, by Maharashtra 25 of 1996, Section 2, Schedule para (3).]
under sub-section (3) of section 86;
(xvi)
regulating all matters connected with the Maharashtra Slum Improvement Fund, under sub-section (2) of section 117;
(xvii)
the manner in which the resignation shall be delivered by the member, Sarpanch or Upa-Sarpanch of a Panchayat
resigning his office, under section 126;
(xviii)
prescribing notice to be given for moving no-confidence motion against the Sarpanch or the Upa-Sarpanch, under
sub-section (1) of section 127;
(xix)
the intervals and the procedure for the meetings of the Panchayat, under section 128;
(xx)
the powers to be exercised and functions to be performed by the Sarpanch and Upa-Sarpanch, under section 129;
(xxi)
the manner and the form in which every contract made and executed by the Sarpanch on behalf of the Panchayat,
under sub-section (2) of section 139;
(xxii)
the form of the writ of demand under sub-section (2), the manner of distraint and sale of moveable property under
sub-section (4), and the form and manner in which a written receipt for any amount recovered by the Panchayat shall be
given under sub-section (6), of section 140;
(xxiii)
the custody in which the sums received by the Panchayat and the Panchayat fund shall be kept, under section 142;
(xxiv)
the date before which and the form in which the annual statement of the opening balance in the Panchayat fund and the
expenditure the Panchayat shall submit to the Board under sub-section (1) and the form in which the accounts of the
Panchayat shall be kept by the Sarpanch and the date before and the form in which the annual statement of accounts
shall be sent to the Board by the Sarpanch under sub-section (3) of section 144;
(xxv)
the manner of supersession and reconstitution of the Authority, or as the case may be, the Board under sub-section (2)
of section 167;
(xxvi)
Page 73/128
----- PAGE 74 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
levy fees for any of the purposes of this Act, and for refund of such fees.
(3)
Except when rules are made for the first time, all rules made under this Act shall be subject to the condition of previous
publication.
(4)
Every rule made under this Act shall be laid as soon as may be after it is made before each House of the State
Legislature while it is in session for a total period of thirty days, which may be comprised in one session or in two
successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session in which it is so laid or the session immediately following,
both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or both Houses agree that the rule should not be made, and
notify such decision in the Official Gazette, the rule shall from the date of publication of such notification have effect only
in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be, so however that any such modification or annulment shall
be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done or omitted to be done under that rule.
185.
Power to make regulations.
(1)
The Authority may, from time to time, with the previous sanction of the State Government, make regulations, consistent
with this Act and the rules made thereunder, and for all or any of the matters which have to be or may be, prescribed or
provided by regulation under any of the provisions of this Act.
(2)
If it appears to the State Government that it is necessary or desirable for carrying out the purposes of this Act to make
any regulations in respect of matters specified in sub-section (1) or to amend any regulation made under that
sub-section the State Government may call upon the Authority to make such regulation or, amendment within such time
as it may specify. If the Authority fails to make such regulation or amendment within the time specified, the State
Government itself may make such regulation or amendment and the regulation or the amendment so made shall be
deemed to have been duly made by the Authority under sub-section (1).
186.
Power to make Bye-laws.
(1)
The Authority may make Bye-laws, not inconsistent with this Act or any rule or regulation, which may be necessary or
expedient for the purpose of carrying out its duties and functions under this Act.
(2)
No Bye-law made by the Authority shall come into force until it has been confirmed by the State Government with or
without modification.
(3)
All Bye-laws made under this section shall be published in the Official Gazette by the Authority.
187.
Penalty for contravention of Bye-laws.
- Whoever contravenes a Bye-law made under section 186 shall, on conviction, be punished with imprisonment for a
term which may extend to six months or with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees or with both.
Chapter XIV
Repeal and Savings
188.
Repeal and savings.
(1)
On and from the appointed day-
(a)
the Bombay Housing Board Act, 1948, as in force in the Bombay and Hyderabad Area of the State;
(b)
the Madhya Pradesh Housing Board Act, 1950, as in force in the Vidarbha Region of the State;
(c)
the Bombay Building Repairs and Reconstructions Board Act, 1969; [and]
Page 74/128
----- PAGE 75 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
[The word 'and' was inserted by Maharashtra 54 of 1977, Section 6(a).]
(d)
the Maharashtra Slum Improvement Board Act, 1973; [**]
[The word 'and' was deleted by Maharashtra 54 of 1977, Section 6(b).]
(e)
[* * * * * *]
[Clause (e) was deleted, by Maharashtra 54 of 1977, Section 6(c).]
shall stand repealed:
Provided that, the repeal shalt not affect -
(a)
the previous operation of any law so repealed or anything duly done or suffered thereunder, or
(b)
any right, privilege, obligation or liability acquired, accrued or incurred under any law so repealed, or
(c)
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred in respect of any offence committed against any law so repealed, or
(d)
any investigation, proceedings, legal proceedings or remedy in respect of any such right, privilege, obligation, liability,
penalty, forfeiture or punishment as aforesaid;
and any such investigation, proceedings, legal proceedings or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced and any
such penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be imposed as if this Act had not been passed:
Provided further that subject to the preceding proviso and any saving provisions made elsewhere in this Act, anything
done or any action taken under the provisions of any law so repealed shall, in so far as it is not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act, be deemed to have been done or taken under the corresponding provisions of this Act; and shall
continue to be in force accordingly unless and until superseded by anything done or action taken under this Act;
(2)
(a)
Any reference in any law or in any instrument or other document to the provisions of any law so repealed shall, unless a
different intention appears, be construed as a reference to the corresponding provisions of this Act;
(b)
any reference in any law or in any instrument to any existing Board shall, unless a different intention appears, be
construed as a reference to the Authority and such law or instrument shall apply to the Authority.
189.
Consequences of repeal.
- With effect from the appointed day, without prejudice to the generality of the provisions of the provisos to sub-section
(1) of section 188, the following consequences shall, unless the State Government by a general or special order directs
otherwise, ensue, that it is to say,-
(a)
all properties, moveable and immoveable and interests of whatsoever nature and kind therein which vested in an
existing Board immediately before the appointed day shall be deemed to be transferred to, and shall vest, without further
assurance, in the Authority subject to all limitations and conditions and rights or interests of any person, body or
authority in force or subsisting immediately prior to the appointed day;
(b)
all rights, liabilities and obligations of an existing Board including those arising under any agreement or contract shall be
deemed to be the rights, liabilities and obligations of the Authority;
(c)
all sums due to an existing Board, whether under any contract or otherwise shall be recoverable by the Authority, and for
the purposes of such recovery, the Authority shall be competent to take any measures or institute any proceedings
which it would have been open to the existing Board or any authority thereof to take or institute before the appointed
day;
(d)
any fund vesting in an existing Board shall be deemed to be the fund of the Authority;
Page 75/128
----- PAGE 76 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
(e)
all contracts made with, and all instruments executed on behalf of, an existing Board shall, subject to the provisions of
section 179, be deemed to have been made with, or executed on behalf of, the Authority, and shall have effect,
accordingly;
(f)
If, on the date of constitution of the Authority, any suits, appeals or legal proceedings of whatever nature by or against
any existing Board are pending, then such suits, appeals or legal proceedings shall not abate, be discontinued or be in
any way prejudicially affected by reason of transfer to the Authority of the property, assets, rights and liabilities of the
existing Board, but the suits appeals or legal proceedings may be continued, prosecuted and enforced by or against the
Authority.
190.
Maharashtra XLV of 1963 not to apply to Authority, etc.
- The Maharashtra Ownership Flats (Regulation of the Promotion of Construction, Sale, Management and Transfer) Act,
1963, shall not apply to the Authority duly constituted under the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976,
or to any land or building belonging to or vesting in any such Authority.
191.
Amendment of section 2 and 40 of Maharashtra XXXVII of 1966.
- In the Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning Act, 1966,-
(a)
[ in section 2, in clause (15), in paragraph (c), for sub-paragraph (ii), the following sub-paragraphs shall be substituted,
namely:- [[Clause (a) was deemed to have been substituted for the original on 21st November 1977 by Maharashtra 29
of 1978, Section 3.
Section 4 of Maharashtra 29 of 1978 reads as follows :-
4. Removal of doubt. - For the removal of doubt, it is hereby declared that clause (a) of section 191 of the Maharashtra
Housing and Area Development Act, 1976, which alongwith the other provisions of that Act, was brought into force on
the 5th December 1977, shall come into force, and shall be deemed to have come into force, on that day, as amended
by this Act, and the Nagpur Improvement Trust shall be deemed to have continued without any break as a local authority
for the purposes of clause (15) of section 2 of the Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning Act, 1966'.]]
"(ii) the Authority constituted under the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development ACt, 1976;
(iii)
the Nagpur Improvement Trust constituted under the Nagpur Improvement Trust Act, 1936";].
(b)
in section 40, in sub-section (1), after clause (a), the following clause shall be inserted, namely :-
"(aa) appoint the Authority constituted under the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976, or"
192.
Amendment of Schedule I of Bombay LII of 1956.
- In the Bombay Legislature Members (Removal of Disqualifications) Act, 1956, in Schedule I, for entry 15, the following
entry shall be substituted, namely:-
"15. The office of a member of the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority (including the President and
the Vice-President thereof) constituted under the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976, or a member
of any of the Housing and Area Development Boards (including the Chairman and the Vice-Chairman thereof)
established under that Act, or a member of any Panchayat (including the Sarpanch and Upa-Sarpanch thereof)
established under that Act, by reason only of his holding such office."
193.
[Substitution of section 272 of C.P. and Berar II of 1950]
Deleted by Maharashtra 54 of 1977, Section 7.
First Schedule
[See sub-section (1) of section 44]
Principles for determination of the net average monthly income:
1. The Land Acquisition Officer shall first determine the gross rent actually derived by the owner of land acquired,
including any building on such land, during the period Of five consecutive years referred to in sub-section (3) of section
Page 76/128
----- PAGE 77 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
44.
2. For such determination, the Land Acquisition Officer may hold any local inquiry and obtain, if necessary, certified
copies of extracts from the property tax assessment books of the local authority concerned showing the rental value of
such land.
3. The net average monthly income referred to in sub-section (3) of section 44 shall be sixty per cent of the average
monthly gross rent which shall be one-sixtieth of the gross rent during the five consecutive years as determined by the
Land Acquisition Officer under paragraph 1.
4. Forty per cent of the gross monthly rental referred to above shall not be taken into consideration in determining the
net average monthly income but shall be deducted in lieu of the expenditure which the owner of the land would normally
incur for payment of any property tax to the local authority, for collection charges, income tax or bad debts as well as for
works of repair and maintenance of the building, if any, on the land.
5. Where the land or any portion thereof has been unoccupied, or the owner has not been in receipt of any rent for the
occupation of the land during the whole or any part of the said period of five years, the gross rent shall be taken to be
income which the owner would in fact have derived if the land had been leased out for rent during the said period, and
for this purpose the rent actually derived from the land during a period prior to subsequent to the period during which it
remained vacant or from similar land in the vicinity shall be taken into account.
[Second Schedule
[This Schedule was substituted by Maharashtra 30 of 1994, Section 2.]
[See sub-section (1) of section 82]
I. The rates at which cess under Chapter VIII of this Act shall be levied on buildings and lands :-
Serial No.
Buildings classified as belonging to Category
'A'
Buildings classified as belonging to Category
'B'
Buildings classified as belonging to Category
'C'
1
2
3
4
1 Where a building is not structurally repaired (or is not
deemed to be so repaired) by the Board.
At the rate of 87 per cent of the rateable value
of the building.
At the rate of 63 per cent of the rateable value
of the building.
At the rate of 39 per cent of the rateable value
of the building.
2 Where a building is structurally repaired (or is deemed to
be so repaired) by the Board and-
(i) the Board has contributed towards the cost of the repairs,
at the rate upto three hundred rupees per square metre;
At the rate of 195 per cent of the rateable value
of the building.
At the rate of 132 per cent of the rateable value
of the building.
At the rate of 75 per cent of the rateable value
of the building.
(ii) the Board has contributed towards the cost of the
repairs, at the rate exceeding three hundred rupees per square
Page 77/128
----- PAGE 78 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
metre but not exceeding five hundred rupees per square metre;
At the rate of 390 per cent of the rateable value
of the building.
At the rate of 270 per cent of the rateable value
of the building.
At the rate of 150 per cent of the rateable value
of the building.
(iii) the Board has contributed towards the cost of the
repairs, at the rate exceeding five hundred rupees per square
metre but not exceeding seven hundred and fifty rupees per square
metre.
At the rate of 585 per cent of the rateable value
of the building.
At the rate of 405 per cent of the rateable value
of the building.
At the rate of 225 per cent of the rateable value
of the building.
II. Where any part or parts of a building is or are used for non-residential purposes, the rate of the cess to be levied and
paid in respect of such part or parts shall be double the rate of cess payable for that part or those parts if they were used
for residential purposes.]
[Section 163A was inserted by Maharashtra 12 of 1989, section 15.]
[Third Schedule
[The third Schedule was added by Maharashtra 21 of 1986, Section 6.]
[See section 103-1(3)]
Scale showing the percentage of built-up area to be reserved by the co-operative society for allotment by the Board
In building reconstructed for mixed use i.e.
residential and commercial
In building reconstructed for residential use
Surplus area
Built-up area to be reserved
Surplus area
Built-up area to be reserved
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
Up to 40 per cent
Nil
Up to 50 per cent.
Nil
Up to 45 per cent
5 per cent.
Up to 55 per cent.
5 per cent.
Up to 55 per cent
10 per cent.
Up to 65 per cent.
10 per cent.
Up to 60 per cent
15 per cent.
Up to 70 per cent.
Page 78/128
----- PAGE 79 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
15 per cent.
Up to 65 per cent
20 per cent.
Up to 75 per cent.
20 per cent.
Up to 70 per cent
25 per cent.
Up to 80 per cent.
25 per cent
Up to 80 per cent
30 per cent
Up to 90 per cent.
30 per cent.
Up to 85 per cent.
35 per cent.
Up to 95 per cent.
35 per cent.
Up to 90 per cent
40 per cent.
above 95 per cent.
40 per cent.
above 90 per cent.
50 per cent.
?..
?....]
Notifications
G.N.H.D. No. MTG 2005/CR-101/(Part-III)/R & R-1 dated 16th September 2008 (M.G. Part IV-B Pages 1001) - In
exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of sub-section (3) of section 88 of the Maharashtra Housing and Area
Development Act, 1976 (Maharashtra XXVIII of 1977), the Government of Maharashtra hereby specifies rupees two
thousand to be the structural repairs cost per square metre for the purposes of the said clause (a).
G.N., P.W. & H.D., No. MHA. 1077/(3)/Desk-44, dated 3rd December, 1977 (M.G., 1978, Part IV-B, Pages 34) - In
exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of section 1 of the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act,
1976 (Maharashtra XXVIII of 1977), the Government of Maharashtra hereby directs [that-
(a)
the said Act, excluding Chapter VIII, shall come into force in the whole of the State of Maharashtra, and
(b)
Chapter VIII shall come into force in the City of Bombay with effect from the 5th day of December 1977.]
G.N., P.W. & H.D., No. ARD. 1077/(1)/Desk-44, dated 5th December, 1977 (M.G. 1978, Part IV-B, Pages 39) - In
exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
(Maharashtra XXVIII of 1977), the Government of Maharashtra hereby establishes for securing the objectives and the
purposes of the said Act an Authority to be called the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority, and in
pursuance of the provisions of sub-section (3) of section 6 of the said Act, the Government of Maharashtra hereby
publishes the names of the following members appointed under sub-section (2) of the said section 6 to constitute the
Authority namely: -
(1) [ Shri Bhausaheb S. Surve, Minister for Housing.
[Substituted by G.N. of 23-8-1978.]
President, Part time under sub-section (2) of section 6]
(2) Shri S. S. Tinaikar
Vice-President, Full time under sub-section (2) of section 6.
(3) Secretary to Government (Urban Development) in Urban
Development and Public Health Department, Mantralaya, Bombay.
Page 79/128
----- PAGE 80 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
Ex-officiomember under clause (a) of sub-section (2) of
section 6.
(4) [ Director, Town Planning Department, Pune
[Substituted by G.N. of 24-5-1978.]
Ex-officio Member under clause (a) of sub-section (2) of
section 6.]
(5) Shri P. M. Apte, Chief (Projects), Housing and Urban
Development Corporation, New Delhi.
Member appointed by the Government of Maharashtra under clause
(b) of sub-section (2) of section 6.
(6) Chairman, Maharashtra Co-operative Housing Finance Society
Ltd., Bombay.
Member appointed by the Government of Maharashtra under clause
(b) of sub-section (2) of section 6.
(7) Shri Shankarrao N. Mohite-Patil.
Member appointed by the Government of Maharashtra under clause
(b) of sub-section (2) of section 6.
(8) Shri R. S. Gavai
Member appointed by the Government of Maharashtra under clause
(b) of sub-section (2) of section 6.
(9) Shri D. V. Rangnekar
Member representing the Employees of the Authority under
clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section 6.
G.N., H. & S.A.D. No. MHA. 1091/379/D-III, dated 10th January, 1992 (M.G. Part IV-B, Pages 1254) - Whereas the
Government of Maharashtra has under Government Notification Housing and Special Assistance Department, No. MHA.
1091/3791D-III, dated 24th October, 1991, notified the name of Shri Ajit Warty, as the full-time Vice-President and Chief
Executive Officer of the said Authority and published his name as required by sub-section (3) of section 6 of the Act;
And whereas, the Government of Maharashtra has appointed Shri Ajay Dua, as the Vice-President and Chief Executive
Officer of the said Authority with effect from 26th December, 1991; Now therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred
by sub-section (3) of section 6 of the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976 (Maharashtra XXVIII of
1977) (hereinafter referred to as "the said Act") and of all the powers enabling it in this behalf, the Government of
Maharashtra hereby deletes the name of Shri Ajit Warty, as the Vice-President and Chief Executive Officer of the said
Authority and in his place appoints Shri Ajay Dua, as Vice-President and Chief Executive Officer of the said Authority
with effect from 26th December, 1991 and herewith publishes his name, as required by sub-section (3) of section 6 of
the said Act.
All other names mentioned in the said Notification remain the same.
G.N., P.W. & H.D., No ARD. 1077/(2)/D-44(1), dated 5th December, 1977 M.G., 1978, Part IV-B, Pages 40) - In exercise
of the powers conferred by clause (a) of sub-section (1), sub-section (2) and sub-section (6) of section 18 of the
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976 (Maharashtra XXVIII of 1977), the Government of Maharashtra
hereby establishes, for the Bombay area, the Board to be known as "the Bombay Housing and Area Development
Board" and in pursuance of the provisions of subsection (4) of section 18 of the said Act, the Government of
Maharashtra hereby publishes the names of the following members appointed to constitute the Bombay Housing and
Area Development Board, namely:-
(1) Dr. V. K. Toraskar
Chairman under sub-section (2) of section 18 (Part-time).
(2) Shri D. V. Deshpande
Vice-Chairman under sub-section (2) of section 18 (Full-time).
(3) Shri Totaram K. Karira
Member appointed under sub-section (2) of section 18.
(4) Shri Datta Nalawade
Member appointed under sub-section (2) of section 18.
Page 80/128
----- PAGE 81 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
(5) Shri Tabhjibhai G. Solanki
Member appointed under sub-section (2) of section 18.
(6) Shri P. Savlaram
Member appointed under sub-section (2) of section 18.
(7) Shri Ravinder N. Rawoot
Member appointed under sub-section (2) of section 18.
(8) Shri J.K. D'souza
Member appointed under sub-section (2) of section 18.
(9) Shri Annasaheb P.Patil
Member appointed under sub-section (2) of section 18.
(10) Shri S.E. Hassnain
Member appointed under sub-section (2) of section 18.
(11) Shri G.D. Taskar
Member appointed under sub-section (3) of section 18.
(12) Shri J.B. Bodhe
Member appointed under sub-section (3) of section 18.
(13) Municipal Commissioner, Greater Bombay Municipal
Corporation Bombay.
Ex-officio Member under sub-section (2) of section 18.
(14) [ Chief Engineer, Public Works, Bombay Region, Bombay.
Ex-officioMember under sub-section (2) of section 18.
(15) Member-Secretary, Housing Urban Renewal and Ecology
Board, Bombay Metropolitan Regional Development Authority,
Bombay.
Ex-officioMember under sub-section (2) of section 18.]
G.N., P.W & H.D. No. ARD. 1077/(2)/D-44(ii), dated 5th December, 1977 (M.G., 1978, Part IV-B, Pages 42) - In exercise
of the powers conferred by clause (b) of sub-section (1), sub-section (2) and sub-section (6) of section 18 of the
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976 (Maharashtra XXVIII of 1977), the Government of Maharashtra
hereby establishes, for the Vidarbha Region, the Board to be known as the Nagpur Housing and Area Development
Board" and in pursuance of the provisions of sub-section (4) of section 18 of the said Act, the Government of
Maharashtra hereby publishes the names of the following members appointed to constitute the Nagpur Housing and
Area Development Board, namely:-
(1) Shri K. G. Deshmukh
Chairman under sub-section (2) of section 18 (Part time).
(2) Shri Rambhau B. Lingade
Vice-Chairman under sub-section (2) of section 18 (Part-time).
(3) Shri Eknathrao Salwe
Member appointed under sub-section (2) of section 18.
(4) Shri Navalchand Toksia
Member appointed under sub-section (2) of section 18.
(5) Shri B. B. Nikhade
Member appointed under sub-section (2) of section 18.
(6) Dr. M. S. Wasnik
Member appointed under sub-section (2) of section 18.
(7) Shri Ram B. Lanjewar
Member appointed under sub-section (3) of section 18.
(8) Divisional Commissioner, Nagpur Division, Nagpur
Ex-officioMember under sub-section (2) of section 18.
(9) Deputy Director of Town Planning, Nagpur.
Ex-officioMember under sub-section (2) of section 18.
(10) Municipal Commissioner, Nagpur Municipal Corporation,
Page 81/128
----- PAGE 82 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
Nagpur.
Ex-officioMember under sub-section (2) of section 18.
G.N, P.W. & H.D., No. ARD. 1077/(2)/D-44(iii), dated 5th December, 1977 (M.G., 1978, Part IV-B, Pages 43) - In
exercise of the powers conferred by clause (c) of sub-section (1) sub-section (2) and sub-section (6) of section 18 of the
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976 (Maharashtra XXVIII of 1977), the Government of Maharashtra
hereby establishes, for the Aurangabad area, the Board to be known as "the Aurangabad Housing and Area
Development Board" and in pursuance of the provisions of sub-section (4) of section 18 of the said Act, the Government
of Maharashtra hereby publishes the names of the following members appointed to constitute the Aurangabad Housing
and Area Development Board, namely:-
(1) Shri Sayajirao T. Pandit
Chairman under sub-section (2) of section 18 (Part-time).
(2) Shri Vilas Murlidhar Lonari
Vice-Chairman under sub-section (2) of section 18 (Part-time).
(3) Shri. S. T. Pradhan
Member appointed under sub-section (2) of section 18.
(4) Shri Haribhau Jaware
Member appointed under sub-section (2) of section 18.
(5) Shri Shivajirao S. Patil Babhulgaonkar.
Member appointed under sub-section (2) of section 18.
(6) Shri Baburao Kondaji Patil Goregaonkar
Member appointed under sub-section (2) of section 18.
(7) Shri N. R. Sidam
Member appointed under sub-section (2) of section 18.
(8) Dr. Y. S. Khedkar
Member appointed under sub-section (2) of section 18.
(9) Shri S. M. (Babubhai) Rathi
Member appointed under sub-section (3) of section 18.
(10) Shri Rohidas Chudaman Patil
Member appointed under sub-section (3) of section 18.
(11) Divisional Commissioner, Aurangabad Division, Aurangabad.
Ex-officio Member under sub-section (2) of section 18.
(12) Deputy Director of Town Planning, Aurangabad.
Ex-officio Member under sub-section (2) of section 18.
(13) Additional Chief Engineer, Public Works & Housing
Department, Aurangabad Region, Aurangabad.
Ex-officio Member under sub-section (2) of section 18.
G.N., P.W. & H.D., No. ARD. 1077/(2)/D-44(iv), dated 5th December, 1977 (M.G., 1978, Part IV-B, Pages 44) - In
exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of sub-section (1), sub-section (2) and sub-section (6) of section 18 of the
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976 (Maharashtra XXVIII of 1977), the Government of Maharashtra
hereby establishes, for the Pune area, the Board to be known as "the Pune Housing and Area Development Board" and
in pursuance of the provisions of sub-section (4) of section 18 of the said Act, the Government of Maharashtra hereby
publishes the names of the following members appointed to constitute the Pune Housing and Area Development Board,
namely:-
(1) Shri Ravindra S. More
Chairman under sub-section (2) of section 18 (Part-time).
(2) Shri Namdeorao Vatkar
Vice-Chairman under sub-section (2) of section 18 (Part-time).
(3) Shri Baburao R. Kotwal
Member appointed under sub-section (2) of section 18.
(4) Shri Navnitbhai Barshikar
Member appointed of section 18.
Page 82/128
----- PAGE 83 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
(5) Shri Vilasrao B. Shinde
Member appointed of section 18.
(6) Smt. Shailaja C. Shitole
Member appointed of section 18.
(7) Shri N. N, Kanna
Member appointed of section 18.
(8) Shri R. A. Parvate
Member appointed of section 18.
(9) Dr. V. M. Dandekar
Member appointed of section 18.
(10) Divisional Commissioner, Pune Division, Pune.
Ex-Officio Member under sub-section (2) of section 18.
(11) [ Deputy Director of Town Planning, Pune Division, Pune.
[Substituted by G. N. of 24-5-1978.]
Ex-Officio Member under sub-section (2) of section 18.]
(12) Municipal Commissioner, Pune Municipal Corporation, Pune.
Ex-Officio Member under sub-section (2) of section 18.
G.N., H. & S.A.D., No. MHA. 1085/871/D-III, dated the 25th October, 1988 (M. G., Part IV-B, Pages 1047) - Whereas,
the Government of Maharashtra has under Government Notification, Housing and Special Assistance Department No.
MHA. 1085/871/D III, dated 19th August, 1988, notified the name of Prof. Janardan C. Chandurkar, M.L.A., Bombay,
appointed as the part-time Chairman of the Bombay Housing and Area Development Board, Bombay (hereinafter
referred to as "the said Board");
And whereas, the Government of Maharashtra has under Government Notification, Housing and Special Assistance
Department, No. MHA. 1085/871/D-111, dated 17th October, 1988, notified the names of following persons as the
full-time Vice-Chairman and Chief Officer and other Official members of the said Board and published their names as
required by sub-section (4) of the said section 18 of the said Act, namely:-
(1) Shri Ganesh Walavalkar
Vice-Chairman (full-time) and Chief Officer appointed under
sub-sections (2) and (6) of section 18.
(2) Divisional Commissioner, Konkan Division, Bombay.
Ex-Officio Member appointed under sub-section (2) of section
18.
(3) Deputy Director of Town Planning, Bombay.
Ex-Officio Member appointed under sub-section (2) of section
18.
(4) Municipal Commissioner, Greater Bombay.
Ex-Officio Member appointed under sub-section (2) of section
18.
Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 18 of the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development
Act, 1976 (Maharashtra XXVIII of 1977) and all other powers enabling it in this behalf, the Government of Maharashtra
hereby appoints the persons mentioned below as the non-official members of the said Board and publishes their names
as require by sub-section (4) of the said section 18 of the said Act, where upon the said Board shall be reconstituted,
consisting of the following persons namely:-
(1) Shri R. R. Singh
Member appointed under sub-section (2) of section 18.
(2) Shri Bhagwanrao Yadav
Member appointed under sub-section (2) of section 18.
(3) Shri Shankarrao Jadhav
Member appointed under sub-section (2) of section 18.
(4) Shri Ashokrao Bote-Patil
Member appointed under sub-section (2) of section 18.
Page 83/128
----- PAGE 84 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
(5) Shri Shankarrao Shinde
Member appointed under sub-section (2) of section 18.
(6) Shri Vishnu Ohal
Member appointed under sub-section (2) of section 18.
(7) Shri Balasaheb Hande
Member appointed under sub-section (2) of section 18.
(8) Shri Manohar Nare
Member appointed under sub-section (2) of section 18.
(9) Shri V. D. Desai
Member appointed under sub-section (3) of section 18.
(10) Shri Sadanand Danait
Member appointed under sub-section (3) of section 18.
[Form (I)]
[Substituted by G.N. of 7-3-1985.]
(See rule 7)
Application for Debentures
Series (per cent)
Years .........................
To
The Chief Executive Officer,
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority,
Bombay 400 051.
Dear Sir,
Issue of ....................................................... years Debentures. Interest ................................................... per cent. Issue
price ...................................................... per cent.
I/We hereby apply for debentures of the face value of Rs. of the above issue. Debentures of the denominations noted
below may kindly be issued for the amount
Denomination
Number of Bonds
Amount
Rs.
Rs.
100
500
1000
5000
10000
25000
50000
100000
Total
I/We send herewith/have paid a deposit of Rs. ................................... (Rupees ...................................................... only),
through ............................. for the debentures applied for.
I/We undertake to accept debentures for the same or for any lesser amount, The interest may be made payable at-
(1)
........................................................................................................................................
(2)
........................................................................................................................................
(3)
At the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority's Office, Bombay.
(By presenting the debentures on the due dates)
Page 84/128
----- PAGE 85 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
Note. Strike the portions not required.
Name/Names in full ............................................................................................................................
(in Block letters)
Address in full
...............................................................................................................................................................................
Date:
Yours faithfully,
Signature.
Notes :
(1)
The names in which the debentures are required should be mentioned in block letters. If the debentures are to be held in
joint names, the order in which the names are to be written should be given. In the case of a registered body the
debentures will be issued in the name of the body itself.
(2)
Specific mention should be of the Bank or Bank Office and the place where the interest on debenture is to be drawn.
[(Form II)
[Added by G.N. of 7-3-1983.]
[See rule 9(5A)]
Form of Public Notice for Notifying The Loss, Theft, etc. of Debentures
Public Notice
*Lost/Stolen/Destroyed/Mutilated/Defaced Debentures
The Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority Debentures (Series), bearing No. ...................................
originally standing in the name of Shri .......................... and last endorsed in the name of the claimant having been
*lost/stolen/destroyed/mutilated/defaced, notice is hereby given that an application is being made by the claimant to the
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority for issue of duplicate debentures in favour of the claimant. The
members of public are, therefore, hereby cautioned against purchasing or otherwise in a any other way dealing with the
above mentioned debenture.
Name of the Claimant .........................................................................................
Place of Resident .................................................................................................]
[Substituted by G.N. of 21-7-1978.]
* Strike out which is not applicable
G. N., H. & S. A. D., No. MHA.1087/(1457)/D-III, dated the 13th May, 1988 (M. G., Part IV-B, Pages 491) - In exercise of
the powers conferred by section 41 of the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976 (Maharashtra XXVIII
of 1977) the Government of Maharashtra hereby appoints Shri G. S. Pantbalekundri, Senior Planner, Prime Minister's
Grant Project, as Ex-officio Deputy Secretary to the Government of Maharashtra, Housing and Special Assistance
Department, for the purposes of exercising the powers under section 41 of the said Act.
G. N. No. MHA. 1294/1128/D-111, dated the 9th August, 1994 (M. G., Part IV-B, Pages 654) - In exercise of the powers
conferred by section 41. of the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976 (Maharashtra XXVIII of 1977),
the Government of Maharashtra hereby notifies the Additional Collector for (Encroachment) and Controller of Slum,
Bombay and Bombay Suburban District, Old Custom House, Bombay 400 023 as ex-officio Deputy Secretary and
Competent Authority to Government of Maharashtra, Housing and special Assistance Department for the purposes of
exercising the powers under section 41 of the said Act.
This notification, supercedes the Government Notification, Housing and Special Assistance Department, No. MHA.
1089/2275/D-XIII, dated the 7th June 1989 and shall remain inforce until further orders.
G. N., H. & S. A. D., No. ARS 1288/CR-385/D-II, dated 19th August, 1988 (M. G., Part IV-B., Pages 696) - Whereas, on
a representation from the Prime Minister, Grant Project/Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority, it
appears to the Government of Maharashtra that in order to enable that said Authority to discharge its functions or to
exercise its powers or to carry out its proposals and plans set out in Part 'I' of the Schedule hereto it is necessary that
the lands with buildings specified in Part-II thereof (hereinafter referred to as "the said land" with building) should be
acquired;
As whereas, the Government of Maharashtra in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 41 of the
Page 85/128
----- PAGE 86 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976 (Maharashtra XXVIII of 1977) proposes to acquire the said
lands with building (if any);
Now, therefore as required by the proviso to sub-section (1) of the section 41 of the Maharashtra Housing and Area
Development Act, 1976, notice is hereby given to persons mentioned in column 3 of Part II of the Schedule hereto, who
are the owner of or who is in the opinion of the Government of Maharashtra are interested in the said lands with existing
buildings (if any) respectively mentioned in column 1 of the said Part-II against them in show cause if any, within a
period of thirty days from the date of publication of this notice in the Maharashtra Government Gazette, why they should
not be acquired? Any objections which may be received from any of the aforesaid persons in respect of the said
proposals before the expiry of the aforesaid period shall be considered by the Ex-Officio Deputy Secretary, Housing and
Special Assistance Department and Secretary, Maharashtra Housing and- Area Development Authority, Griha Nirman
Bhavan, Bandra (E), Bombay 400 051.
Schedule
Part I ? Reconstruction of the Building Nos. 25-27, 31-33, 35-37, 39-41 and 45-49 Umarkhadi Road in 'B' Ward, bearing
C. S. Nos. 1968, 1969, 1970, 1971(Pt) and 1972 of Mandvi Division.
Part II ? {|
|-
| Description of land and buildings
| Approximate area to be acquired
| Name and address of owner of land and building
|-
| (1)
| (2)
| (3)
|-
| (1) 35-37, Umerkhedi Road, Mandvi Division.
| C. S. No. 1970 182.92 sq. mtrs.
| Rambhau Daulat Puri, The Rosario Co-op. Hng. S. Ltd., Block
20.
, 6th Floor, Ganga Bandi Road, Mazgaon, Bombay 400 010.
|-
| (2) 39-41, Umerkhedi Road, Mandvi Division.
| C. S. No. 1971(Pt.) 234.55 sq. mtrs.
| Haji Jan Mohd. Haji Deojibhai Jamal Trust, 5, Jail Road, North
X Lane, Bombay 400 009.
|-
| (3) 45-49, Umerkhedi Road, Mandvi Division.
| C. S. No. 1972 417.22 sq. mtrs.
| Smt. Kamlabai R. Padwal, Ashok Niwas, Nawroji Hill, Road, No.
5.
, Bombay 400 009.
|}
G. N., H. & S. A. D., No. ARS. 1888/CR-4161D-II, dated the 19th October, 1988, (M.G., Part IV-B, Pages 169) -
Whereas, on a representation from the Prime Minister's Grant Project, Directorate, Maharashtra Housing and Area
Development Authority, it appears to the Government of Maharashtra that in order to enable the said Authority to
discharge its functions or to exercise its powers or to carry out its proposals, plans and projects set out in Part 'I' of the
Schedule hereto, it is necessary that the land specified in Part thereof (hereinafter referred to as "the said land" with
building) should be acquired;
And whereas, the Government of Maharashtra in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 41 of
the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976 (Maharashtra XXVIII of 977) proposes to acquire the said
land with existing building (if any);
Now, therefore, as required by the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 41 of the Maharashtra Housing and Area
Page 86/128
----- PAGE 87 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
Development Act, 1976, notice is hereby given to persons mentioned in column (3) of Part II of the Schedule hereto,
who are the owner of, or any other person who in the opinion of the Government of Maharashtra, are interested in the
said land with existing building (if any) respectively mentioned in column (1) of the said Part II against them to show
cause, if any, within a period of thirty days from the date of publication of this notice in the Government of the
Maharashtra Government Gazette, why they should not be acquired any objections which may be received by the
Secretary, Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority, Griha Nirman Bhavan, Bandra, (E) Bombay 400 051
from any of the aforesaid persons in respect of the said proposals before the expiry of the aforesaid period shall be
considered by the Government.
Schedule 2
Part I ? Reconstruction of Building Nos. 271-273C, 271A, 213-A, 213-B, 213-C, 269-C, 269, CB, 273A, 273-B, 267-B,
267-269A, 267 AB, Lower Parel Division, N. M. Joshi Marg, G/South Ward, Bombay.
Part II ? {|
|-
| Description of land and buildings
| Approximate area to be acquired and C.S. No.
| Name and address of owner of land and building
|-
| (1)
| (2)
| (3)
|-
| Building No, 271- 273C, 271-A, 213-A, 213-B, 213-C,
269.
-C, 269-CB, 273-A, 273-B, 267-B, 267-269-A, 267-AB.Lower
Parel N. M. Joshi Marg, G/South Ward, Bombay
| 3,457.39 sq, mtrs. C. S. No. 94.
| (1) Shri Sherar Jamshed Irani.(2) Shri Kersap Gustad
Irani.(3) Shri Jamshed Sheriar Irani.(4) Shri Seriar
Bazon Irani.TrusteesNaushir B. Irani, Sheth Kuteer, 2nd
Dadisheth Road, Chowpati, Bombay 400 007.
|}
G.N., H. & S.A.D., No. ARS. 1382/1034/D-II, dated the 21st November, 1988 (M.G., Part IV-B, 1989 Pages 31) -
Whereas, on a representation from the Bombay Housing and Area Development Board it appears to the Government of
Maharashtra that in order to enable the said Board to discharge its function or to exercise its powers or to carry out its
proposals, plans or projects set out in Part-I of the Schedule hereto it is necessary that the lands with building specified
in Part II thereof (hereinafter referred to as "the said lands with buildings") should be acquired;
And whereas, the Government of Maharashtra as required by the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 41 of the
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976 (Maharashtra XXVIII of 1977) (hereinafter referred to as "the
said Act") has by its Notice No. ARS. 1382/1034/D-II, dated 10th February, 1982 published on page 156 of Part IV-B,
Maharashtra Government Gazette, dated the .18th February, 1982 and served in the prescribed manner, called upon
the person mentioned in column (3) of Part II of Schedule hereto who is the owner of the said land with building
mentioned in column (1) of the said Part II against him, to show cause within a period of thirty days from the date of the
publication of the aforesaid notice in the Maharashtra Government Gazette (hereinafter referred to as "the said period")
why the said land with building should not be acquired;
And whereas, the cause shown by the said owner has been considered by the Government;
Therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 41 of the said Act the Government of
Maharashtra hereby decides to acquire, the said land with building in pursuance of the said section.
Schedule 3
Part I ? Reconstruction of Building Nos. 77 to 103, Sant Sena Maharaj and 2 to 2b-A Bhandari Street on C. S. Nos. 3963
to 3975 and 3792 Bhuleshwar Division, C Ward, Bombay.
Part II ? {|
Page 87/128
----- PAGE 88 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
|-
| Description of land and buildings
| Approximate area to be acquired
| Name and address of owner of land and building
|-
| (1)
| (2)
| (3)
|-
| Building No. 2-4 Bhandan Street.
| 63.55 sq. mtrs.
| Shri. Ramchandra Mansukhlal Mehta.
|}
G.N., H. & S.A.D., No. ARS. 1379/30187/CR-69/D-II, dated the 21st November, 1988 (M.G., Part IV-B, 1989 Pages 34) -
Whereas, on a representation from the Bombay Housing and Area Development Board it appears to the Government of
Maharashtra that in order to enable the said Board to discharge its functions or to exercise its powers or to carry out its
proposals, plans or projects set out in Part I of the Schedule hereto it is necessary that the lands with building specified
in Part II thereof (hereinafter referred to as "the said land with buildings") should be acquired;
And whereas, the Government of Maharashtra as required by the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 41 of the
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976 (Maharashtra XXVIII of 1977) (hereinafter referred to as "the
said Act") has by its notice and Corrigendum No. ARS. 1379/30187/ CR-69-D-II, dated 19th May, 1981 and 23rd
November, 1981 published on pages 564 to 565 and 1882 of Part IV-B. Maharashtra Government Gazette,
Extraordinary Nos. 100 and 279, dated the 21st May, 1981, 27th November, 1981 and served in the prescribed manner,
called upon the person mentioned in column (3) of Part II of the Schedule hereto who is the owner of the said land with
building mentioned in column 1 of the said Part II against him, to show-cause within a period of thirty days from the date
of the publication of the aforesaid notice in the Maharashtra Government Gazette, (hereinafter referred to as "the said
period") why the said land with building should not be acquired;
And whereas, the cause shown by the said owner has been considered by the Government;
Therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 41 of the said Act the Government of
Maharashtra hereby decides to acquire, the said land with building in pursuance of the said section.
Schedule 4
Part I ? Reconstruction of Building Nos. 3, 5, 5-A, 5-B, 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16 known of Boriki Chawl, C. S. No. 605 of
Bhuleshwar Division, Dadi Santok Lane, C-Ward Bombay.
Part II ? {|
|-
| Description of land and buildings
| Approximate area of lands proposed to be
acquired
| Name and address of owner of land and building
|-
| (1)
| (2)
| (3)
|-
| 5-A, 5-B, Dadi Santok Lane, C. S. No. 605 of
Bhuleahwar Division.
| 217.71 sq. mtrs.
| Shri Mukund V. Kapadia
|}
G.N., H. &. S.A.D., No. ARS. 1588/CR-684/D-II, dated the 28th November, 1988 (M.G., Part IV-B. 1989 Pages 62) -
Whereas, on a representation from the Prime Minister Grant Project/Maharashtra Housing and Area Development
Page 88/128
----- PAGE 89 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
Authority, it appears to the Government of Maharashtra that in order to enable the said Authority to discharge its
functions or to exercise its powers' or to carry out its proposals and plans set out in Part 'I' of the schedule hereto it is
necessary that the lands with buildings specified in Part II thereof (hereinafter referred to as "the said land" with building)
should be acquired;
And whereas, the Government of Maharashtra in exercise of the powers conferred by the sub-section (1) of section 41
of the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976 (Maharashtra XXVIII of 1977) proposes to acquire the
said lands with building (if any).
Now, therefore as required by the proviso to sub-section (a) of the section 41 of the Maharashtra Housing and Area
Development Act, 1976 notice is hereby given to persons mentioned in column (3) of Part II of the schedule hereto, who
are the owner of or who is in the opinion of the Government of Maharashtra are interested in the said lands with existing
buildings (if any) respectively mentioned in column (1) of the said Part II against them in show-cause, if any, within a
period of thirty-days from the date of publication of this notice in the Maharashtra Government Gazette, why they should
not be acquired? Any objections which may be received by Ex-officio Deputy Secretary, Housing and Special Assistance
Department and Secretary, Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority, Griha Nirman Bhavan, Bandra (E),
Bombay 400 051 from any of the aforesaid persons with respect of the said proposal before the expiry of the aforesaid
period shall be considered by Government.
Schedule 5
Part I ? Reconstruction of the building Nos. 53, 55, 57, 59, 61, (61-63), 63, 65, 67, 69, 71, (71-73), 71-A, Kamathipura,
3rd lane, C. S. No. 920, 921, 922, 923, 924, 925, 926, 927, 928, 929, 930 and 70-A, 70, 68, 62, 56-58, 56-54,
Kamathipura 2nd Lane C. S. Nos. 1/931, 931, 932, 933, 934, 935 Byculla Division,
Part II ? {|
|-
| Description of land and buildings
| Approximate area of lands proposed to be
acquired
| Name and address of owner of land and building
|-
| Plot No.
| Area in Sq. Mtrs.
|-
| (1)
| (2)
| (3)
|-
| 1. Building No. 53, Kamathipura 3rd Lane.
| 920
| 96.99
| Smt. P. S. Lamge, 53, 3rd Kamathipura Street,
Bombay 400 008.
|-
| 2. Building No. 55, Kamathipura 3rd Lane.
| 921
| 30.19
| Smt. P. S. Lamge, 53, 3rd Kamathipura Lane, Bombay
400.
008.
|-
| 3. Building No. 57, Kamathipura 3rd Lane.
| 922
| 38.46
| Shri M. J. Shetty, 57, 3rd Kamathipura Lane, Bombay
Page 89/128
----- PAGE 90 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
400. 008.
|-
| 4. Building No. 59, Kamathipura 3rd Lane.
| 923
| 2.76
| Smt. Manikbai V. Bhusrath, Bhusrath Wadi, Datta
Mandir Road, (Pipe Line), Vakola, Santacruz (East), Bombay 400
055.
|-
| 5. Building No. 61, (62-63), Kamathipura 3rd Lane.
| 924
| 42.64
| Shri Husainbhai N. E. Diwani, Badri Mahal, D. N.
Road, Bombay 400 001.
|-
| 6. Building No. 63, Kamathipura 3rd Lane.
| 925
| 24.25
| Shri Umakant S. Manda, A/6, Roas Blossom Housing
Society, Sitaladevi Temple Road, Mahim, Bombay.
|-
| 7. Building No. 65, Kamathipura 3rd Lane.
| 926
| 64.38
| Shri D. S. Chilwan. 65, 3rd Kamathipura Street,
Bombay 400 008.
|-
| 8. Building No. 67, Kamathipura 3rd Lane.
| 927
| 47.66
| Shri G. G. Yelmane, Manaji Building, Old
Chikhalwadi, Grant Road, Bombay 400 007.
|-
| 9. Building No. 69, Kamathipura 3rd Lane.
| 928
| 105.35
| Shri Waghee Mafatlal, Gopaldas and Shri Waghela,
Ashok Mafatlal, 69, 3rd K. P. Street, Bombay.
|-
| 10. Building No. 71, (71-73), Kamathipura 3rd Lane.
| 929
| 25.92
| Shri V. S. Kalewar, 70, 3rd K. P. Street, Bombay
400. 008.
|-
| 11. Building No. 71-A. K.P. 3rdLane and
Manaji Rajuji Road.
| 930
| 76.92
| Shri P. N. Rajuji. 57, K. P. Street, Bombay 400
008.
Page 90/128
----- PAGE 91 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
|-
| 12. Building No. 70-A 2ndK.P. Lane,
(113-115, M.R. Road)
| 931
| 100.34
| Shri Taherbhoy Fidahussein, C/o. Luciy Trading
Corporation, 272, Abdul Rahaman Street, Bombay 400 003.
|-
| 13. Building No. 70, Kamathipura 2ndLane.
| 1/931
| 42.64
| Shri Umakant S. Manda, A-6, Roas Blossom Housing
Society, Sitaladevi Temple Road, Mahim, Bombay 400 016.
|-
| 14. Building No. 68, Kamathipura 2ndLane.
| 932
| 69.4
| Smt. R.Y. Ekkoldevi, Ajanta Compounds Gauripada,
Bhiwandi, District Thane.
|-
| 15. Building No. 62, Kamathipura 2ndLane.
| 933
| 107.02
| Shri G.G. Yelmane, Manaji Road, Old Chikhaiwadi,
Grant Road, Bombay 400 007.
|-
| 16. Building No. 56-58 Kamathipura 2ndLane.
| 934
| 103.68
| Smt. Laxmibai Ambaram, 58, 2ndK.P.
Street, Bombay 400 008.
|-
| 17. Building No. 54-56, Kamethipura 2ndLane.
| 935
| 117.06
| Shri C.A. Lane, 56, 2ndK.P. Street,
Bombay 400 008.
|}
G.N., H. & S.A.D., No. ARS. 1588/CR/727/D-II, dated the 3rd December, 1988 (M.G., Part IV-B, 1989 Pages 69) -
Whereas, on a representation from the Prime Minister's Grant Project, Maharashtra Housing and Area Development
Authority, it appears to the Government of Maharashtra that in order to enable the said Authority to discharge its
functions or to exercise its powers or to carry out its proposals and plans set out in Part 'I' of the schedule hereto, it is
necessary that the lands with building as specified in Part-II thereof (hereinafter referred to as "the said land" with
building) should be acquired;
And whereas the Government of Maharashtra in exercise of the powers conferred by the sub-section (1) of section 41 of
the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976 (Maharashtra XXVIII of 1977), proposes to acquire the said
lands with building (if any);
Now, therefore, as required by the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 41 of the Maharashtra Housing and Area
Development Act, 1976, notice is hereby given to persons mentioned in column (3) of Part II of the schedule hereto, who
are the owner of or who is in the option of the Government of Maharashtra are interested in the said lands with existing
buildings (if any) respectively mentioned in column (1) of the said Part II against them in show cause, if any, within a
Page 91/128
----- PAGE 92 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
period of thirty days, from the date of publication of this notice in the Maharashtra Government Gazette why they should
not be acquired? Any objections which may be received by the Ex-officio, Deputy Secretary, Secretary to the
Government of Maharashtra in the Housing and Special Assistance Department and Secretary, Maharashtra Housing
and Area Development Authority, Griha Nirman Bhavan, Bandra (East), Bombay 400 051, from any of the aforesaid
persons with respect of the said proposal before the expiry of the aforesaid period shall be considered by the
Government.
Schedule 6
Part I ? Reconstruction of the building Nos. 104, 106-108, 110, 112, 114, K. P. 2nd St. and Building Nos. 95, 99 K. P.
3rd St. and Building Nos. 91-A, 91, Suklaji Street, 'E' Ward Bombay.
Part II ? {|
|-
| Description of land and buildings
| Approximate area of lands proposed to be
acquired
| Name and address of owner of land and building
|-
| C.S. No.
| Area Sq. Mtrs.
|-
| (1)
| (2)
| (3)
|-
| 1. Building No. 104, K. P. 2nd Street.
| 64
| 141.3
| Smt. Hawab Begam Kashmiri, 104, 2nd Kamathipura
Street, Bombay 400 008.
|-
| 2. Building No. 106-108, K. P. 2nd Street, (95, 3rd
K. P. St.).
| 6362
| 57.6968.56
| Shri Haji Israr Alam 62 68.56 Madina Restaurant,
130.
, Suklaji Street, Bombay 400 008.
|-
| 3. Building No. 110, K. P. 2nd Street.
| 61
| 87.79
| Shri Haji Israr Alam, Madina Restaurant, 130,
Suklaji Street, Bombay 400 008.
|-
| 4. Building No. 112, K. P. 2nd Street.
| 60
| 54.35
| Shri Mohamed Anwar Qureshi, Block No. 8, Transwal
Terrace, Corner of Grant Road and Falkland Road, Bombay 400 008.
|-
| 5. Building No. 114, K. P. 2nd Street (99, K. P.
3rd.
Page 92/128
----- PAGE 93 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
St.)
| 59
| 73.58
| Mr. Momin Mohamed Umar, Block No. 8, Transwal
Terrace Corner of Grant Road and Falkland Road, Bombay 400 008.
|-
| 6. Building No. 91-A, Suklaji Street, (2nd K. P.
S.), Building No. 91, Suklaji Street (3rd K. P. St.).
| 581/58
| 147.99165.55
| The Frontier Laundry, 1/58 165.55 94, Suklaji
Street, Bombay 400 008.
|}
G. N., H. & S.A.D., No. ARS. 1088/CR-728/Desk-II, dated the 3rd December, 1988 (M.G., Part IV-B, Pages 72) -
Whereas, on representation from the Prime Minister's Grant Project, Directorate, Maharashtra Housing and Area
Development Authority, it appears to the Government of Maharashtra that in order to enable the said Authority to
discharge its function or to exercise its powers or to carry out its proposals, plans and projects, it is necessary that the
land/lands with the buildings specified hereto (hereinafter referred to as the land with building) should be acquired ;
And whereas, the Government of Maharashtra in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 41 of
the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976 (Maharashtra XXVIII of 1977), proposes to acquire the said
land with buildings;
Now, therefore, as required by the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 41 of the said Act, notice is hereby given to
persons mentioned in column (3) of the Schedule hereto, who are the owner of or who, in the opinion of the Government
of Maharashtra, are interested in column (2) of the said Schedule against them to show cause if any, within a period of
thirty days from the date of publication of the notice in the Maharashtra Government Gazette, why they should not be
acquired. Any objection which may be received by the Ex-officio Deputy Secretary to Government of Maharashtra in the
Housing and Special Assistance Department and Secretary, Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority,
Griha Nirman Bhavan, Bandra (E), Bombay 400 051, from any of the aforesaid persons with respect of the said proposal
before expiry of the aforesaid period shall be considered by the Government.
Description of land and buildings
Approximate area of lands proposed to be
acquired
Name and address of owner of land and building
(1)
(2)
(3)
Sq. Mtrs.
1. 5, 3rdKoli Lane, 7, 9, 11, Manekji
St. on C.S. No. 260 of Colaba Division.
78.6
(i) Smt. Prabhavati Kawal, 7, 9, 11 Manekji Street,
2nd Floor, Colaba, Bombay 400 005.
(ii) Jagannath Nilkanth Ganju, 3rd Koh Lane,
Colaba, Bombay 400 005.
Set forward area of 3rdKoli Lane , C.S.
No. 261 (pt.) of Colaba, Division.
23.53
Shri Govardhandas Liladhar, 267, Dr. Vigus Street,
Chira Bazar, Dhanji Malaji Mala, IInd floor, Bombay 400 002.
G. N., H. & S.A.D., No. ARS. 1988/746/Desk-II, dated the 3rd December, 1988 (M. G., Part IV-B, 1989 Pages 75) -
Whereas, on a representation from the Prime Minister's Grant Project, Directorate Maharashtra Housing and Area
Page 93/128
----- PAGE 94 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
Development Authority, it appears to the Government of Maharashtra that in order to enable the said Authority to
discharge its Function or to exercise its powers or to carry out its proposals and plans, it is necessary That the lands
with the buildings specified hereto (hereinafter referred to as "the said Lands with building") should be acquired;
And whereas, the Government of Maharashtra in exercise of the powers conferred by the sub-section (1) of section 41
of the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976 (Maharashtra XXVIII of 1977) proposes to acquire the
said land with Buildings (if any);
Now, therefore, as required by the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 41 of the Maharashtra Housing and Area
Development Act, 1976, notice is hereby given to persons mentioned in column (3) of the Schedule hereto, who are the
owner of or who, in the opinion of the Government of Maharashtra are interested in the said land with the buildings
respectively mentioned in column (1) of the said Schedule against them to show cause, if any within a period of thirty
days from the date of publication of this notice in the Maharashtra Government Gazette, why they should not be
acquired. Any objections which may be received from any of the aforesaid persons in respect of the said proposal before
the expiry of the aforesaid period shall be considered by the Ex-Officio Deputy Secretary to Government and the
Secretary, Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority, Griha Nirman Bhavan, Bandra (E), Bombay 400 051.
Schedule 7
Description of land and buildings
Approximate area of lands proposed to be
acquired
Name of the owners of land with building
(1)
(2)
(3)
Sq. Mtrs.
1. Building No. 14, C. S. 1002, Mahim Division.
147.99
Shri Javat Aga and others building No. 14, Dana
Gully, Mahim, Bombay 400 016.
2. Building No. 15, C. S. No. 2/997, Mahim
Division.
57.69
Hakim Sayed Niyazali and others Building No. 15,
Dana Gully, Mahim, Bombay 400 016.
3. Building No. 30, C. S. No. 3/997, Mahim
Division.
4. Building No. 16, C. S. No. 3/997, Mahim
Division.
158.86
Kazi Noormohmad Bin and others. Building No. 16,
Dana Gully, Mahim, Bombay 400 016.
5. Building No. 17, C. S. No. 1009, Mahim Division.
81.94
Sakharam Dhondiba Masurle and others. Building No.
17, Dana Gully, Mahim, Bombay 400 016
6. Building No. 17A, C. S. No. 1010, Mahim
Division.
103.68
Hakim Sayad Niyazali and others, Building No. 17A,
Gully, Mahim, Bombay 400 016.
7. Building No. 17B, C. S. No. 3/997, Mahim
Division.
67.73
Page 94/128
----- PAGE 95 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
Andraj Hansraj, House No. 17B, Dana Gully, Mahim,
Bombay.
8. Building No. 161-163, Mahim Division.
118.96
Shakoor Husain Ayub Shakoor, Building No. 161-163,
Savarkar Marg, Mahim, Bombay 400 016.
9.Building No. 165-167, C. S. No. 1011, Mahim
Division.
168.06
Khatijabhai Umar Abdul Karim, Building No. 165-167,
Veer Savarkar Marg, Mahim, Bombay 400 016.
G. N., H. & S.A.D., No. ARS. 1388/747/D-II, dated the 3rd December, 1988 (M.G., Part IV-B, 1889 Pages 79) -
Whereas, on a representation from the Prime Minister's Grant Project, Directorate, Maharashtra Housing and Area
Development Authorities, it appears to the Government of Maharashtra that in order to enable the said Authority to
discharge its functions or to exercise its powers or to carry out its proposals, plans and projects set out in Part I of the
Schedule hereto it is necessary that the land specified in Part II thereof (hereinafter referred to as "the said land" with
building) should be acquired;
And whereas, the/GOvernment of Maharashtra in exercise of the powers conferred by the sub-section (1) of section 41
of the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976 (Maharashtra XXVIII of 1977), proposes to acquire the
said land with existing building (if any);
Now, therefore, as required by the proviso to sub-Section (1) of section 41 of the Maharashtra Housing and Area
Development Act, 1976, notice is hereby given to persons mentioned in column (3) of Part II of the Schedule hereto,
who are the owner of' or who in the opinion of the Government of Maharashtra are interested in the said land with
existing building (if any) respectively mentioned in column (1) of the said Part II against them to show cause, if any,
within a period of thirty days from the date of publication of this notice in the Maharashtra Government Gazette, why
they should not be acquired, any objections which may be received by the Ex-officio Deputy Secretary to the
Government of Maharashtra, Housing and Special Assistance Department and Secretary, Maharashtra Housing and
Area Development Authority, Griha Nirman Bhavan, Bandra, Bombay 400 051 from any of the aforesaid persons with
respect of the said proposal before the expiry of the aforesaid period shall be considered by the Government.
Schedule 8
Part I ? Urban Renewal Scheme at C. S. Nos. 275, 276, 277, 278, 279, 280, 281, 282 and 283 of Bhuleshwar Division,
4th Marine Street 'C' Ward, Bombay.
Part II ? {|
|-
| Description of land and buildings
| Approximate area of lands proposed to be
acquired
| Name of the landlord and Address
|-
| (1)
| (2)
| (3)
|-
| 1. Building No. 46-48-50, 4thMarine
Street.
| C.S. No. 275 Area 210.70 sq.m.
| (i) Shri Lalji Chika Makanlalji,
|-
| (ii) Smt. Jamnabai, Room No. 22, Building No.
48.
-50, 4th Marine Street, Dhobi Talao, Bombay 400 002.
Page 95/128
----- PAGE 96 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
|-
| (iii) Shri Jagjivan Makan, 48, Marine Street, Dobhi
Talao, Bombay 400 002
|-
| 2. Building No. 42-44, 4thMarine
Street.
| C.S. No. 276 Area 111.20 sq.m.
| Shri Badri Prasad Sidgopal, Moose Building, 516,
2nd.
floor, Kalbadevi Road, Near Edward Cinema, Bombay 400 002.
|-
| 3. Building No. 38-40, 4thMarine
Street.
| C.S. No. 277 Area 161.37 sq.m.
| Shri Vasant Hansari Shah and Shri Kantilal Shivraj
Patel, 3/5, 4th Marine Street, Dhobi Talao, Bombay 400 002,
|-
| 4. Building No. 34-36, 4thMarine
Street.
| C.S. No. 278-279, Area 120.40 sq.m.
| (i) Narayan Reddi, 34, 4th Marine Street, Dhobi
Talao, Bombay 400 002.
|-
| (ii) Jethalal Meghji, 52, Trinity Street, Bombay
400. 002.
|-
| 5. Building No. 32-32-A, 4thMarine
Street.
| C.S. No. 280 Area 56.00 sq.m.
| (i) Hajrabai
|-
| (ii) Narayan Das T. Dudhani, 21/321, No. 4, Sardar
Nagar, Sion-Koliwada, Bombay 400 037.
|-
| 6. Building No. 30, 4thMarine Street.
| C.S. No. 281 Area 61.87 sq.m.
| Smt. Amitaji Masani, 30-4th Marine Street, Dhobi
Tala.o, Bombay 400 002.
|-
| 7. Building No. 20, 4thMarine Street.
| C.S. No. 282, Area 73.49 sq.m.
| Yusuf Ahmed Butler, 3rd floor; Topiwalla Mansion,
95.
, Mohammed All Road, Bombay 400 003
|-
| 8. Building No. 18, 4thMarine Street.
| C.S. No. 283 Area 65.22 sq.m.
| Sakinabai A. Rehman, Mohammed Yusuf Chawl-2,
Wellington Street, Dhobi Talao, Bombay 400 002
|}
G. N., H. & S.A.D., No. ARS. 1488/CR-9853/D-II, dated the 3rd December, 1988 (M.G., Part IV-B, 1989 Pages 106) -
Page 96/128
----- PAGE 97 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
Whereas, on a representation from the Prime Minister's Grant Project, Directorate, Maharashtra Housing and Area
Development Authority it appears to the Government of Maharashtra that in order to enable the said Authority to
discharge its functions or to exercise its powers or to carry out its proposals, plans, it is necessary that the lands with
building specified hereto (hereinafter referred to as "the said lands with buildings") should be acquired;
And whereas, the Government of Maharashtra as required by the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 41 of the
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976 (Maharashtra XXVIII of 1977) (hereinafter referred to as "the
said Act") has by its Notice No. ARS. 1488/CR-9853/D-II, dated 25th February, 1988, published on pages 109 to 110 of
Part IV-B, Maharashtra Government Gazette, Extraordinary No. 40, dated the 29th February, 1988 and served in the
prescribed manner, called upon the person mentioned in column (3) of the Schedule hereto who is the owner of the said
land with buildings mentioned in column (1) of the said Schedule against him, to show cause within a period of thirty
days from the date of the publication of the aforesaid notice in the Maharashtra Government Gazette (hereinafter
referred to as "the said period") why the said land with building should not be acquired;
And whereas, the cause shown by the said owner has been considered by the Government;
Therefore, in exercise of the, in powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 41 of the said Act, the Government of
Maharashtra hereby decides to acquire the said land with building in pursuance of the said section.
Schedule 9
Description of land and buildings
Approximate area of lands proposed to be
acquired
Name of the owner of the lands with buildings
(1)
(2)
(3)
Building Nos. 1 to 11 G.S. No. 370 of Girgaon
Division.
5630.48 sq. m.
Trustees, Harkisandas Narottamdas Hospital.
G. N., H. & S. A., No. ARS. 1888 774/Desk-II dated the 12th December, 1988 (M. G., Part IV-B., 1989 Pages 111) -
Whereas, on representative from the Prime Minister's Grant Project, Directorate Maharashtra Housing and Area
Development Authority, it appears to the Government of Maharashtra that in order to enable the said Authority to
discharge its function or to exercise its powers or to carry out its proposals, plans and projects, it is necessary that the
lands with the buildings specified hereto (hereinafter referred to as the land with building) should be acquired;
And whereas, the Government of Maharashtra in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 41 of
the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976 (Maharashtra XXVIII of 1977), proposes to acquire the said
land with the buildings;
Now therefore, as required by the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 41 of the said Act, notice is hereby given to
persons mentioned in the column (3) of Schedule hereto, who are the owners of or who, in the opinion of the
Government of Maharashtra are interested in the said land with building respectively mentioned in the column of the
said Schedule against them to show cause, if any within a period of thirty (30) days from the date of publication of the
notice in the Maharashtra Government Gazette, why they should not be acquired. Any objections which may be received
by the Ex-Officio Deputy Secretary to Government of Maharashtra in the Housing and Special Assistance Department
and Secretary, Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority, Griha Nirman Bhavan, Bandra Bombay 400 051
from any of the aforesaid persons with respect of the said proposal before the expiry of the aforesaid period shall be
considered by the Government.
Schedule 10
Description of land and buildings
Approximate area of lands proposed to be
acquired
Name and address of the owners of land with buildings
(1)
(2)
Page 97/128
----- PAGE 98 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
(3)
Building No. 1 to 6, Final Plot No. 1064(pt),
T.P.S. IV, Mahim Division.
3,514.38 Sq. meters
Shri D. R. Kalewar and others. Owner of the Kalewar
Chawls, Std. Mill Lane, Kalewar Mansion, Babulnath Road, Bombay
400 007.
G. N., H. & S. A. D., No. ARS. 1888/CR-782/D-II, dated the 12th December, 1988 (M. G., Part IV-B, 1989 Pages 144) -
Whereas, on a representation from the Prime Minister's Grant Project, Directorate, Maharashtra Housing and Area
Development Authority, it appears to the Government of Maharashtra that in order to enable the said Authority to
discharge its function or to exercise its powers or to carry out its proposals, plans and projects it is necessary that the
Land-the Lands with the buildings specified hereto (here in after, referred to as the land with building) should be
acquired;
And whereas, the Government of Maharashtra in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 41 of
the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976 (Maharashtra XXVIII of 1977), proposes to acquire the said
land with the building;
Now therefore, as required by the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 41 of the said Act, notice is hereby given to
persons mentioned in the column (3) of Schedule hereto, who are interested in the said land with the building
respectively mentioned in the column (1) of the said Schedule against them to show cause, if any, within a period of
thirty (30) days from the date of publication of the notice in the Maharashtra Government Gazette, why they should not
be acquired. Any objections which may be received by the Ex-Officio Deputy Secretary to Maharashtra Housing and
Special Assistance. Department and Secretary, Maharashtra Housing and area Development Authority, Griha Nirman
Bhavan, Bandra (E), Bombay 400 051 from any of the aforesaid persons with respect of the said proposal before expiry
of the aforesaid period shall be considered by the Government.
Schedule 11
Description of land and buildings
Approximate area of lands proposed to be
acquired
Name and Address of owner of land with building
(1)
(2)
(3)
Building No. 275A, B, C, N. M. Joshi Margin G/S.
Ward on C. S. No. 93 of Lower Parel Division.
1,408.87 Sq. meters
Shah Damji Gowar Devji, G.I.P. Lane, Lower Parel,
Bombay 400 012.
G. N., H. & S.A.D. No. ARS. 1588/768/D-II, dated the 12th December, 1988 (M. G., Part IV-B, 1989 Pages 116) -
Whereas, on a representation from the Prime Minister's Grant Project, Directorate, Maharashtra Housing and Area
Development Authority, it appears to the Government of Maharashtra that in order to enable the said Authority to
discharge its function or to exercise its powers or to carry out its proposals, plans and projects set out in Part I of the
Schedule hereto it is necessary that the land specified in Part II thereof (hereinafter referred to as "the said land" with
building) should be acquired;
And whereas, the Government of Maharashtra in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 41 of
the Maharashtra Housing an Area Development Act, 1976 (Maharashtra XXVIII of 1977), proposes to acquire the said
land with buildings (if any);
Now therefore, as required by the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 41 of the Maharashtra Housing and Area
Development Act, 1976, notice is hereby given to persons mentioned in the column (3) of Part II of the Schedule hereto,
who are the owners of or who in the opinion of the Government of Maharashtra are interested in the said land with
existing building (if any) respectively mentioned in column (1) of the said Part II against them in show cause, if any,
within a period of thirty days from the date of publication of this notice in the Maharashtra Government Gazette, why
Page 98/128
----- PAGE 99 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
they should not be acquired, any objection which may be received by the Ex-Officio Secretary to Government, Housing
and Special Assistance Department, C/o. Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority, Griha Nirman Bhavan,
Bandra (E), Bombay 400 057 from any of the aforesaid persons with respect of the said proposal before the expiry of the
aforesaid period shall be considered by the Government.
Schedule 12
Part I ? Reconstruction of Building No. 543A, N. M. Josh Marg, Ward 'E'.
Part II ? {|
|-
| Description of land and buildings
| Approximate area of lands proposed to be
acquired
| Name of the landlord and Address
|-
| (1)
| (2)
| (3)
|-
| Building No. 543 A, N. M. Joshi Marg, C.S. No. 2030
(Part)
.
| 623.51 Sq. meters
| Shri Vasant Contractor, C-252, Anand, 17th Juhu
Lane, Andheri (W), Bombay 400 058.
|}
G. N., H. & S. A. D., No. -ARS. 1988/CR-683/Desk-II, dated the 12th December, 1988 (M. G., Part IV-B, 1989 Pages
119) - Whereas, on a representation from the Prime Minister's Grant Project, Directorate, Maharashtra Housing and
Area Development Authority, it appears to the Government of Maharashtra in order to enable the said Authority to
discharge its function or to exercise its powers or to carry out its proposals and plans, it is necessary that the lands with
the buildings specified hereto (hereinafter referred to as "the said lands" with buildings) should be acquired.
G.N., H. & S.A.D., No. DRS. 1288/(877)/D-V, dated 14th December, 19813 (M.G., Part 1989 Pages 131) - Whereas, on
representation from the Prime Minister's Grant Project/Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority, it
appears to the Government of Maharashtra that in order to unable the said authority to discharge its functions or to
exercise its powers or to carry out its proposals and -plans set out in Part I of the Schedule hereto it is necessary that
the lands with buildings specified in Part II thereof (hereinafter referred to as "the said lands" with buildings) should be
acquired;
And whereas, the Government of Maharashtra in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 41 of
the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976 (Maharashtra XXVIII of 1977) proposes to acquire the said
lands with building (if any);
Now, therefore, as required by the proviso to sub-section (1) of the section 41 of the Maharashtra Housing and Area
Development Act, 1976, notice is hereby given to persons mentioned in Column (3) of Part II of the schedule hereto,
who are the owners of or who are in the opinion of section (3) of section 1 of the Maharashtra Industrial Development
Act, the State Government are interested in the said lands with existing buildings, (if any) respectively mentioned in
Column (1) of the said Part II against then to show cause, if any within a period of thirty days from the date of publication
of this notice in the Maharashtra Government Gazette, why they should not be acquired. Ahoy objection which may be
received by the Secretary to Government of Maharashtra in Housing and Special Assistance Department, Mantralaya,
Bombay 400 032. From any of the aforesaid persons with respect to the said proposal before expiry of the aforesaid
period shall be considered by Government.
Schedule 13
Part I ? Acquisition of private lands in C. S. No. 101(pt.), 317(pt), 1/31(pt.), 4/317(pt.), 5/317(pt), 6/317, 7/317, 318(pt),
325(pt), 326, 327, 1/327 and 328(pt) of Dharavi for redevelopment of slum improvement.
Part II ? {|
Page 99/128
----- PAGE 100 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
|-
| Description of land and buildings
| Approximate area of lands proposed to be
acquired
| Name of the owners of the lands
|-
| (1)
| (2)
| (3)
|-
|
| Sq. meters
|
|-
| Dharavi -C.S. No. 101 (pt)C.S. No. 317
(pt.)
| 517.26102.13
| Smt. Baxijaiji Harmasad Jamsp.Shri Bande
Alibhoy Sowaji, Ismailbhoy Sowaji Navaroji Rusturof Wadia, Haji
Elsa Haji Usman B-The Bombay South India Adi Dravid Mahajan
Sangh.
|-
| C.S. No. 1/317 (pt)
| 4,332.88
| Shri Abdul Bakar Haji Eisa Usman.
|-
| C.S. No. 4/317 (pt)
| 1,994.76
| Shri Usman Haji Mohamad 1/2 share.Shri Ibrahim
Haji Mohamad 1/4 share.Shri Ismail Haji Mohamad 1/4 share.
|-
| C.S. No. 5/317 (pt)
| 6,263.41
| Shri Hadhar Amina Pal (Lessee).Shri Sanaji Bon
Banarjee (Lessor).
|-
| C.S. No. 6/317
| 428.25
| Shri Ahamadbhay Abedeenbhoy Pearbhoy (Lessor).Shri
Laxman Manikrao Shinde (Lessee).
|-
| C.S. No. 7/317
| 2,825.89
| Shri Ahamdbhoy Abedeenbhoy Peerbhoy (Lessor).Shri
Laxman Manikrao Shinde (Lessee).
|-
| C.S No. 318 (pt)
| 585.39
| The Bombay South India Adi Dravid Mahajan Sangh.
|-
| C.S. No. 325 (pt)
Page 100/128
----- PAGE 101 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
| 1,713.38
| Shri Lavaji Bhima Chunilal Harkar Lal.
|-
| C.S. No. 326
| 9,225.03
| Smt. Saraswatibai Pratap Sitaram Pandit (Lessor).
|-
| C.S. No. 327
| 234.00
| The Western India Tanneries Limited (Lessee).
|-
| C.S. No. 1/327
| 1,430.13
| The Western India Tanneries Limited. Shri Usman
Haji Mahamed.
|-
| C.S. No. 328 (pt)
| 17,184.90
| Shri Usman Haji Mahamed.
|-
| Total
| 46,837.04
|
|}
G. N., H. & S.A.D., No. ARS. 1588/9985/D-II, dated the 13th January, 1989 (M.G., Part IV-B, Pages 92) - Whereas, on a
representation from the Bombay Housing and Area Development Board it appears to the Government of Maharashtra
that in order to enable the said Board to discharge its functions or to exercise its powers or to carry out its proposals
plans or projects set out in Part I of the Schedule hereto it is necessary that the lands with buildings specified in Part II
thereof (here in after referred to as the said land with buildings") should be acquired ;
And whereas, the Government of Maharashtra as required by the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 41 of the
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976 (Maharashtra XXVIII of 1977) (hereinafter referred to as "the
said Act") has by its notice No. ARS. 1588/9985/D-II, dated 21st March, 1988 published on pages 195 to 196 of Part
IV-B, Maharashtra Government Gazette, Extraordinary No. 57, dated 21st March, 1988 and served in the prescribed
manner, called upon the person mentioned in column (3) of Part II of the Schedule hereto who is the owner of the said
land with building mentioned in column (1) of the said Part II against him, to show-cause within a period of thirty days
from the date of the publication of the aforesaid notice in the Maharashtra Government Gazette, (hereinafter referred to
as "the said period") why the said land with building should not be acquired;
And whereas, the cause shown by the said owner has been considered by the Government;
Therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 41 of the said Act the Government of
Maharashtra hereby decides to acquire the said land with building in pursuance of the said section.
Schedule 14
Part I ? Reconstruction of Building Nos. 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 10A, 12, 14, Kamathipura, 12th lane, C.S. Nos. 419 to 422, 425,
426.
Part II ? {|
|-
| Description of land and buildings
| Approximate area of lands proposed to be
acquired
| Name of the owner of the lands with buildings
|-
| (1)
Page 101/128
----- PAGE 102 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
| (2)
| (3)
|-
|
| Sq. meters
|
|-
| 1. Building No. 2, Kamathipura, 12th lane.
| C. S. No. 426190.64 sq. mtrs.
| Smt. Avabal Sarkari and others 32, Khetwadi Back
Road, Bombay.
|-
| 2. Building No. 4, Kamathipura, 12th lane.
| C. S. No. 42545.15 sq. mtrs.
| Shri V.S. Kunta, R. No. 4, Kamathipura, 12th lane,
Bombay 400 008.
|-
| 3. Building No. 10, Kamathipura, 12th lane.
| C. S. No. 42223.41 sq. mtrs.
| Smt. Fatima Hassamal Hemjavaal C/o. Shri Babu
Rajanna Teddu, R. No. 10, Kamathipura, 12th lane, Bombay 400
008.
|-
| 4. Building No. 10A, Kamathipura, 12th lane.
| C. S. No. 42121.74 sq. mtrs.
| Smt. Rajubai Yelappa, Kamathipura, 12th lane,
Bombay 400 008.
|-
| 5. Building No. 12, Kamathipura, 12th lane.
| C. S. No. 42035.12 sq. mtrs.
| Shri Raghunath R. Chiplunkar, Kamathipura, 12th
lane, Bombay 400 008.
|-
| 6. Building No. 14, Kamathipura, 12th lane.
| C. S. No. 41980.27 sq. mtrs.
| Shri Bhoomibai Lingana Burivar, C/o. P. E.
Butaiwar, 13, Kamathipura, 12th lane, Bombay 400 008.
|}
G.N., H. & S.A.D., No. ARS.-1587/9322-D II, dated the 16th January, 1989, (M. G., Part IV-B, Pages 100) - Whereas on
a representation from the Bombay Housing and Area Development Board it appears to the Government of Maharashtra
that in order to enable the said Board to discharge its functions or to exercise its powers or to carry out its proposals,
plans or projects set out in Part I of the Schedule hereto it is necessary that the lands with building specified in Part II
thereof (hereinafter referred to as "the said lands with buildings") should be acquired;
And whereas, the Government of Maharashtra as required by the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 41 of the
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976 (Maharashtra XXVIII of 1977) (hereinafter referred to as "the
said Act") has by its notices Nos. ARS. 1587/9322/D-II, dated 26th May, 1987, 7th September, 1987 and Corrigendum
No. ARS. 1587/9322/D-II, dated 24th February, 1988, published on pages 197 to 198, 295 to 297 and 112 of Part IV-B
of the Maharashtra Government Gazette, Extraordinary Nos. 80, 120 and 40 respectively and served in the prescribed
manner, called upon the person mentioned in column (3) of Part II of the Schedule hereto who is the owner of the said
land with building mentioned in column (1) of the said Part II against him, to show-cause within a period of thirty days
from the date of the publication of the aforesaid notice in the Maharashtra Government Gazette (hereinafter referred to
Page 102/128
----- PAGE 103 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
as "the said period") why the said land with building should not be acquired;
And whereas the cause shown by the said owner has been considered by the Government;
Therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 41 of the said Act, the Government of
Maharashtra hereby decides to acquire the said and with building in pursuance of the said section.
Schedule 15
Part I ? Reconstruction of building Nos. 134 (132-136), 140 (138-140), Shankarrao Pupala Road, Building Nos. 30-32,
34, 36, 36-38, 40, 42, 44, 46, 49, 50-52, Kamathipura, 2nd lane, building Nos. 23, 25, 27, 29, 33, 3?, 39, 41, 43, 45, 47,
49, 51 Kamathipura, 3rd lane, C. S. Nos. 905, 948, 947, 946, 945, 944, 943, 942, 941, 940 939, 938, 937, 906, 907,
908, 909, 910, 911, 913, 914, 915, 916, 917, 918, 919, "E" Ward.
Part II ? {|
|-
| Description of land and buildings
| Approximate area of lands proposed to be
acquired
| Name of the land lord and Address
|-
| (1)
| (2)
| (3)
|-
|
| Sq. meters
|
|-
| 1. Building No. 140, (138-140) S.P. Road.
| C.S. No. 948,95.60 sq. mtrs.
| Smt. Mariammabai Valvi Mojammad, Rabiyabai Manzil,
4th.
floor, Room No. 8, New Kazi Street, Nalbazar, Bombay 400 003.
|-
| 2. Building No. 134, (132-136) S.P. Road.
| C.S. No. 905,142.14 sq. mtrs.
| Shri Hemandra Samaji Malde, 132/134, S. P. Road,
21.
, Kamathipura, 3rd Floor, Bombay 400 008.
|-
| 3. Building No. 33, 3rd Lane, Kamathipura.
| C.S. No. 910,61.50 sq. mtrs.
| Smt. Jayashree Motiram Dhamnakar 52, 2nd Duncon
Cross Lane, 1st floor, Bombay 400 004.
|-
| 4. Building No. 37, 3rd Lane, Kamathipura.
| C.S. No. 911,37.63 sq. mtrs and C.S. No. 912,
40.13
sq. mtrs.
| Shri Ramkrishna Khandu Wagh, and 2nd Floor, 72, 3rd
Kamathipura Road Bombay 400 008.
|-
| 5. Building No. 49, 3rd Lane, Kamathipura.
| C.S. No. 918,49.33 sq. mtrs.
| Smt. Laxmibai V. Hemke, Usman Tukaram Chawl, Indira
Page 103/128
----- PAGE 104 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
Nagar, Road No. 5, Kanjurmarg, Bombay 400 078.
|-
| 6. Building No. 51, 3rd Lane, Kamathipura.
| C.S. No. 919,85.29 sq. mtrs.
| Shri P. N. Rajasee, 51, 3rd Lane, Kamathipura,
Bombay 400 008.
|-
| 7. Building No. 47, 3rd Lane, Kamathipura.
| C.S. No. 917,45.15 sq. mtrs.
| Shri Jenbai Venshi Malde, C/o. Khatbai Chunilal
Vershi Kooversi 44, 2nd Lane, Kamathipura.
|-
| 8. Building No. 39, 3rd Lane, Kamathipura.
| C.S. No. 913,45.15 sq. mtrs.
| Shri Bapuram Rajaram Chitka, 39, 3rd Lane, 1st
floor, Kamathipura, Bombay 400 008.
|-
| 9. Building No. 40, 2nd Lane, Kamathipura.
| C.S. No. 942,81.10 sq. mtrs.
| Shri V. M. Ajukar, Satyanarayan Bhavan, Room No. 5,
1st.
floor, S. P. Road, 2nd Lane, Kamathipura, Bombay 400 008.
|-
| 10. Building No. 44, 2nd Lane, Kamathipura.
| C.S. No. 940,64.94 sq. mtrs.
| Shri Chunilal Khimta Desai, 44, 2nd Kamathipura,
Bombay 400 008.
|-
| 11. Building No. 25, S.P. Road, 3rd Lane,
Kamathipura.
| C.S. No. 907,26.76 sq. mtrs.
| Shri Kakaji Patajee, C/o. P.'H. Rajujee, 51, 3rd
Lane, S. P. Street, Bombay 400 008.
|-
| 12. Building No. 26, S.P. Road, 3rd Lane,
Kamathipura.
| C.S. No. 909,30.94 sq. mtrs.
| Shri V. S. Kalewar, 70, 3rd S. P. Street, Bombay
400. 008
|-
| 13. Building No. 41, S.P. Road, 3rd Lane,
Kamathipura.
| C.S. No. 914,91.14 sq. mtrs.
| Shri Balkrishna Shamsunder Karpe, 349, Rasta Peth,
Laxmi Building, 1st floor Opp. K.E.M. Hospital, Pune 411 011.
|-
| 14. Building No. 43, S.P. Road, 3rd Lane,
Kamathipura.
| C.S. No. 915,32.61 sq. mtrs.
| Shri Suleman Y. Kapadia, Rumani, Manzil, Khandia
Street, Bombay 400 008.
Page 104/128
----- PAGE 105 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
|-
| 15. Building No. 45, S.P. Road, 3rd Lane,
Kamathipura.
| C.S. No. 916,32.61 sq. mtrs.
| Smt. Paruti Balkrishna Pawar, 45, 3rd S. P. Road,
Bombay 400 008.
|}
G.N., H. & S.A.D., No. ARS. 1988/952/Desk-II, dated the 27th January, 1989 (M. G., Part IV-B, Pages 188) - Whereas,
on a representation from the Prime Minister's Grant Project, Directorate, Maharashtra Housing and Area Development
Authority, it appears to the Government of Maharashtra that in order to enable the said Authority to discharge its function
or to exercise its powers or to carry out its proposals and plans, it is necessary that the lands with the buildings specified
hereto (hereinafter referred to "the said lands" with buildings) should be acquired;
As whereas, the Government of Maharashtra, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 41 of the
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976 (Maharashtra XXVIII of 1977) proposes to acquire the said land
with buildings (if any);
Now therefore, as required by the provision to sub-section (1) of section 41 of the Maharashtra Housing and Area
Development Act, 1976, notice is hereby given to persons mentioned in column (3) of the Schedule hereto who are the
owners or who, in the opinion of the Government of Maharashtra are interested in the said land with the buildings
respectively mentioned in column (15, of the said Schedule against them to show cause, if any with a period of thirty
days from the date of publication of this notice in the Maharashtra Government Gazette, why they should not be
acquired. Any objections which may be received by the Ex-Officio Deputy Secretary to Government of Maharashtra in
the' Housing and Special Assistance Department and Secretary, Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority,
Griha Nirman Bhavan, Bandra (E), Bombay 400 051 from any of the aforesaid persons with respect of the said proposal
before the expiry of the aforesaid period shall be considered by the Government.
Schedule 16
Description of land and buildings
Approximate area of lands proposed to be
acquired
Name of the owners of the land with address
(1)
(2)
(3)
Sq. meters
1. Land bearing C. S. No. 688, with building No.
177-177-A, Veer Savarkar Marg, G/N Ward, Mahim Division.
165.55
Mr. Sylvester D'Souza, 177A, Veer Savarkar Marg,
Mahim, Bombay 400 016.
2. Land bearing C. S. No. 689 with building No.
173, Veer Savarkar Marg, G/N Ward, Mahim Division.
145.48
Mr. Pascal Mandonca, 173, Veer Savarkar Marg,
Mahim, Bombay 400 016.
3. Land bearing C. S. No. 690 with building No.
173-A, 173A, Veer Savarkar Marg, G/N Ward, Mahim Division.
158.03
Mr. R. B. Dhanoo, Veer Savarkar Marg, Mahim, Bombay
400 016.
4. Land bearing C. S. No. 1017 with building No.
171, Veer Savarkar Marg, G/N Ward, Mahim Division
47.1
Page 105/128
----- PAGE 106 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
Smt. Zubedabai, D/o. Abdul Gani W/o. Habib Wali
Mohammad, Veer Savarkar Marg, Mahim, Bombay 400 016.
5. Land bearing C. S. No. 691 with building No.
40A, Sitaladevi Temple Road, G/N Ward, Mahim Division.
105.35
Mr. Pandurang A. Patil, 40A Sitaladevi Temple Road,
Mahim, Bombay 400 016.
6. Land Bearing C. S. No. 696 (pt) with building
No. 40B, Sitaladevi Temple Road, G/N Ward, Mahim Division.
282.53
Smt. Bayabai Kazi, Trust Property, Garden View,
Flat No. 301, Plot No. 41, 16th Road, Bandra Bombay 400 050.
7. Land bearing C. S. No. 1016 with building No.
40C, Sitaladevi Temple Road, G/N Ward, Mahim Division.
138.80
Mr. Mohamad Afzal A. Hawa, 120-122, Masjid Bunder
Road, Bombay 400 003.
Total
1042.84
G.N., H. & S.A.D., No. ARS. 1486/8900/D-II, dated the 29th January, 1989 (M.G., Part IV-B, Pages 192) - Whereas, on
a representation from the Prime Minister's Grant Project Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority, it
appears to the Government of Maharashtra that in order to enable the said Authority to discharge its functions or to
exercise its powers or to carry out proposals, plans or projects set out in Part I of the Schedule hereto it is necessary
that the lands with building specified in Part II thereof (hereinafter referred to as "the said lands with building") should be
acquired;
And whereas, the Government of Maharashtra as required by the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 41 of the
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976 (Maharashtra XXVIII of 1977) (hereinafter referred to as "the
said Act") has by its notice No. ARS. 1486/8900/D-II, dated 18th December, 1986 published on pages 1141 to 1143 of
Part IV-B, Maharashtra Government Gazette, Extraordinary No. , ....................................... dated the 18th December,
1986 and served in the prescribed manner, called upon the person mentioned in column (3) of the Part II of the
Schedule hereto who is the owner of the said land with building mentioned in column (1) of the said Part II against him,
to show cause within a period of thirty days from the date of the publication of the aforesaid notice in the Maharashtra
Government Gazette (hereinafter referred to as "the said period") why the said land with building should not be
acquired."
And whereas, the cause shown by the said owner has been considered by the Government;
Therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 41 of the said Act the Government of
Maharashtra hereby decides to acquire the said land with building in pursuance of the said section.
Schedule 17
Part I ? Reconstruction of building Nos. 20, 22, 24, 18, 26, 6, 8, 22-22A, 24, 23, 12, 14 Akkalkote Lane, 27-27A, 2-3
Khadilkar Road, 4-5 Cow Lane, 16A, 16AA Borbhat X Lane, Girgaon Division in 'D' Ward, Bombay on C. S. Nos. 163 to
175, 183 to 185.
Part II ? {|
|-
| Description of land and buildings
| Approximate area of lands proposed to be
acquired
| Name of the the owners of the land with
buildings
|-
| (1)
| (2)
Page 106/128
----- PAGE 107 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
| (3)
|-
|
| Sq. meters
|
|-
| 1. Navalkar Building, 20, Akkalkote, 1st lane, C.
S. No. 163, Girgaon Division.
| 82.78
| Shri Pandharinath Laxmanrao Navalkar and Shri Arun
Laxmanrao Navalkar.
|-
| 2. Akkalkote Swami Math, 22, Akkalkote 1st lane, C.
S. No. 164, Girgaon Division.
| 96.15
| Shri Akkalkote Swami Sarnartha.
|-
| 3. Pethe Building, 24 and 18, Akkalkote lane, C. S.
No. 165, Girgaon Division.
| 220.74
| Shri Trimbak Waman Pethe.
|-
| 4. Malpekar House, 16, Akkalkote 1st lane, C. S.
No. 166 Girgaon Division.
| 208.19
| Shri Dattatray Krishnarao Malpekar.
|-
| 5. Malpekar House, 6, Akkalkote 2nd lane, C. S. No.
167.
, Girgaon Division.
| 187.29
| Shri Damodar Krishnarao Malpekar.Shri Jayawant
Krishnarao Malpekar.
|-
| 6. 8, Akkalkote lane, 8, Akkalkote 2nd lane, C. S.
No. 168
| 4.15
| Smt. Radhabai Raning.
|-
| 7. Radhabai Building, 8, Akkalkote 2nd lane, C. S.
No. 169.
| 72.74
| Smt. Radhabai Raning.
|-
| 8. Rele Building, 22-22A, Akkalkote 1st lane and
2nd. lane, C. S. No. 170.
| 116.22
| Shri Gajanan Govardhan Rele.
|-
| 9. Rele Building, 24, Akkalkote 2nd lane, C. S. No.
171.
Page 107/128
----- PAGE 108 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
| 99.50
| Shri Parmanand Govardhan Rele.
|-
| 10. Radhabai Building, 23, Akkalkote 2nd lane, C.
S. No, 172.
| 114.55
| Smt. Radhabai Raning.
|-
| 11. Dharamdas Building, 27-27A Khadilkar Road, C.
S. No. 173.
| 303.51
| Shri Devidas Hargundas Vora and Shri Balkrishnadas
Dharamdas Vora.
|-
| 12. Chiman Building, (2 No.), 2-3, Khadilkar Road,
C. S. No. 174.
| 124.58
| Shri Pravinchandra Chimanlal and Shri Dineshchandra
Chimanlal.
|-
| 13. Makhalai Building, 4-5, Cow Lane, C. S. No.
175.
| 105.63
| Shri Anandrao Dinanath Save.
|-
| 14. Nurani Building, 16A-16AA, Borbhat X lane, C.
S. No. 183.
| 311.04
| Jayabbilly Bhorajiwalla.
|-
| 15. Acharya Bhavan, 12, Akkalkote 1st lane, C. S.
No. 184.
| 111.2
| Bai-Duragabai Balkrishna Acharya.
|-
| 16. Narayan Nivas, 14, Akkalkote 1st lane, C. S.
No. 185. 124.58
| 118.73
| Shri Kanailal Narandas Ramwala.
|-
| Total
| 2,276.82
|
|}
G.N., H. & S.A.D., No. ADL. 2387/1888/D-X, dated the 10th March, 1989 (M. G., Part IV-B, Pages 360) - Whereas, on a
representation from the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority, it appears to the Government of
Maharashtra that in orders to enable the said Authority to discharge its functions or to exercise proposals as per Draft
Development Plan (Revised) 1981 and also that of MHADA set out in Part I of the Schedule hereto it is necessary that
the lands specified in Part II thereof (hereinafter referred to as "the said land") should be acquired;
And whereas, the Government of Maharashtra, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 41 of
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976 (Maharashtra XXXVIII of 1977) proposes to acquire the said
Page 108/128
----- PAGE 109 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
lands;
Now, therefore, as required by the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 41 of the said Act, notice is hereby given to
persons mentioned in column (4) Part II of the Schedule hereto who are the owners of, or who in the opinion of the
Government of Maharashtra are interested in the said lands respectively mentioned in column (1) the said Part II against
them to show cause, if any, within a period of thirty days from the date of publication of this Notice in the Maharashtra
Government Gazette, why they should not be acquired. Any objection which may be received by the Secretary to
Government, Housing and Special Assistance Department, Mantralaya, Bombay 400 032, or the C.E.O. & V.P.,
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority, Griha Nirman Bhavan, Bandra (East), Bombay 400 051, from
any of the aforesaid persons with respect to the said proposal before the expiry of the aforesaid period shall be
considered by the Government.
Schedule 18
Part I ? For the purpose of construction of tenements under E. W. S./L. I. G. and for execution of Area Development
Scheme at Solapur.
Part II ? {|
|-
| Survey No.
| Village
| Area
| Names of the owners/persons Interest therein
|-
| (1)
| (2)
| (3)
| (4)
|-
|
|
| H.
| Areas
|
|-
| 29
| Dahitane
| 05
| 25.00
| Shri Umakant Shankarrao Bhagawant
|-
| 30
| Dahitane
| 04
| 30.00
| Sau Kumudini Vasantrao Mahthaikar
|-
| 31/1
| Dahitane
| 00
| 70.00
| Shri Narayan Tukaram Sarvade.
|-
|
|
Page 109/128
----- PAGE 110 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
|
|
| Shri Kalappa.
|-
| 31/2
| Dahitane
| 00
| 81.00
| Shri Haji Gajibarksha Allabaksha Karche.
|-
|
|
|
|
| Rajibhai Allabaksha Karche.
|-
|
|
|
|
| Kashbai Allabaksha Karche.
|-
|
|
|
|
| Aqtar Hajagaji Karche.
|-
|
|
|
|
| Jaftar Hajigaji Karche.
|-
|
|
|
|
| Khajabhai Hajigaji Karche.
|-
|
|
|
|
| Attar Rajibhai Karche.
|-
|
|
|
|
| Shoukat Kashabai Karche.
Page 110/128
----- PAGE 111 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
|-
| 31/3(pt)
| Dahitane
| 00
| 84.50
| Devidar Mahadev Pawar.
|-
|
|
|
|
| Haridas Mahadev Pawar.
|-
|
|
|
|
| Smt. Kalawati Vitthal Chavan.
|-
|
|
|
|
| Smt. Suman Shivaji Babar.
|-
|
|
|
|
| Smt. Pramila Shivaji Anapal.
|-
|
|
|
|
| Smt. Titottama Sharad Varate.
|-
| 31/4
| Dahitane
| 00
| 81.00
| Solapur Timber Merchant
Association(President?Kallapa Dattaba Vadje).
|-
| 115/1A
| Kasbe Solapur
| 00
| 91.00
| Subhana Sidu Bhosale.
|-
| 115/1B/1
Page 111/128
----- PAGE 112 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
| Kasbe Solapur
| 00
| 15.00
| Manjaram Narayan Shinde.
|-
|
|
|
|
| Rajesh Chandrakant Shinde.
|-
|
|
|
|
| Ranji Shivaraj Shinde.
|-
|
|
|
|
| Bararang Sidram Kokane.
|-
|
|
|
|
| Maruti Dattu Shinde.
|-
|
|
|
|
| Suryakant Manjuram Shinde.
|-
|
|
|
|
| Jetinga Ganpati Hotkar.
|-
| 115/1B/2
| Kasbe Solapur
| 00
| 91.00
| Dattu Subhana Bhosale.
|-
| 115/1C
| Kasbe Solapur
| 00
| 82.00
Page 112/128
----- PAGE 113 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
| Tukaram Subhana Bhosale.
|-
| 115/2
| Kasbe Solapur
| 00
| 02.00
| Subhana, Lingappa, Vitthal-Babu, Sidhu Bhosale.
|-
| 115/3
| Kasbe Solapur
| 02
| 64.00
| Dnyaneshwar and Vithabai Lingappa Bhosale.
|-
|
|
|
|
| Jankibai Vitthal Shinde.
|-
|
|
|
|
| Mathurabai Pandurang Chougule.
|-
| 115/4
| Kasbe Solapur
| 02
| 75.00
| Vitthal and Sidheshwar Sattu Bhosale.
|-
| 115/5
| Kasbe Solapur
| 02
| 39.00
| Vithal Sidhu Bhosale.
|-
| 115/6
| Kasbe Solapur
| 02
| 29.00
| Babu Sidhu Bhosale.
|-
| 117/2A
| Kasbe Solapur
| 03
| 14.00
| Ram Babu Saravde.
|-
| 118/2
Page 113/128
----- PAGE 114 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
| Kasbe Solapur
| 01
| 72.00
| Ram Babu Sarvade.
|-
| 116/2
| Kasbe Solapur
| 02
| 68.00
| Shankar Babu Sarvade.
|-
| 117/1A
| Kasbe Solapur
| 06
| 67.00
| Babu Dattu Sarvade.
|}
G. N., H. & S.A.D. No. ADL-2389/2098/D-X, dated 9th November, 1990 (M. G., Part IV-B, Pages 2732) - Whereas, on a
representation from the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority, it appears to the Government of
Maharashtra that in order to enable the said Authority to discharge its functions or to exercise its powers or to carry out
its proposals, plans or projects set out in Part I of the Schedule hereto it is necessary that the lands specified in Part II
thereof (hereinafter referred to as "the said land") should be acquired;
And whereas, the Government of Maharashtra, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 41 of
the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976 (Maharashtra XXVIII of 1977) proposed to acquire the land;
Now, therefore, as required by the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 41 of the said Act, notice is hereby given to
persons mentioned in column (3) of the said Part II of the Schedule hereto who are the owners of, or who in the opinion
of the Government of Maharashtra are interested in the said lands respectively mentioned in column (1) of the said Part
II against them to show cause, if any within a period of thirty days from the date of publication of this Notice in the
Maharashtra Government Gazette, why they should not be acquired. Any objection which may be received by the
Ex-Officio Secretary to Government, Housing and Special Assistance Department, and the Chief Executive Officer and
Vice President, Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority, Griha Nirman Bhavan, Bandra (East), Bombay
400 051, from any of the aforesaid persons with respect to the said proposal before the expiry of the aforesaid period
shall be considered by the Government.
Schedule 19
Part I ? For the purpose of various area development schemes and public amenity sites by the Pune Housing and Area
Development Board at village Kasbe-Solapur.
Part II ? {|
|-
| Survey No.
| Hissa No.
| Approximate Area of lands proposed to be
acquired
| Names of the owners/persons Interest therein
|-
| (1)
| (2)
| (4)
|-
|
| H.
| Areas
Page 114/128
----- PAGE 115 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
|
|-
| District Solapur, Village Kasbe-Solapur
|-
| 105/1A
| 0
| 67.00
| Jame Mohamadiya Ahale Hadis Trust, Chairman, Haji Hasanalli
Mohammadalil Shaikh.
|-
| 107/A/1
| 2
| 78.27
| Revansidhappa Shankarappa Dargopatil.
|-
| 107/A/2
| 2
| 87.13
| Sidramppa Shankarappa Dargopatil.
|-
| 107/B
| 0
| 05.00
| Revansidha Shankarappa Dargopatil.
|-
| 108/1+2+5+4A
| 1
| 30.60
| Kashinath Shankarappa Dargopatil.
|-
| 108/3A+4B
| 0
| 06.00
| Annarao Anandrao Dargopatil, Mallinath Anandrao Dargopatil,
Sidram, Balasaheb, Kashinath and Revanisidha Shankarappa
Dargopatil, Saurabai Shankarappa Dargopatil, Irappa Dadrao Gavali
etc.
|-
| 109/1
| 1
| 89.00
| Irappa Dadarao Gavali and 15 others.
|-
| 109/2
| 1
| 32.00
| Kashinath Shankarappa Dargopatil.
|-
| 110/2
| 7
| 12.00
Page 115/128
----- PAGE 116 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
| Vithoba Magalappa Pogul.
|-
| 121/2
| 0
| 81.00
| Proposed Rameshwar Housing Society, Chief Pramotor, S. S.
Birajdar.
|-
| Village Shelgi
|-
| 23/2A/1-1/1/A
| 0
| 19.85
|
| Rakhamabai and Pandurang Dhondiba Sarvade.
|-
| 23/2A/1/2/1A
| 0
| 08.00
|
| Rakhamabai and Pandurang Dhondiba Sarvade.
|-
| 23/2A/1/2B
| 0
| 12.90
| 64
| Smt. Putiabai Malkappa Kaishetti.
|-
| 23/2A/1B
| 0
| 72.00
|
| Apparao Revansiddhappa Dargopatil.
|-
| 23/2A/2/1A (Part)
| 0
| 30.00
|
| Hanumandas Dhanraj Nagappa.
|-
| Shantabai Badrinarayan Randad.
|-
| 23/2A/2/2
| 0
| 40.00
|
| Rajgopal Hiralal, M.G. Hiralal, Chaturbhuj Nogia.
|-
| 23/2A/3
| 1
| 19.00
Page 116/128
----- PAGE 117 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
|
| Jame Mohamadiya Ahale Hadis Trust, Chairman, Haji Hasanalli
Mohammadalil Shaikh.
|-
| 23/2B
| 0
| 14.00
|
| Sidaram Subhana Bhosale.
|-
| Total
| 22
| 23.75
| 64
|
|}
G.N., H. & S.A.D., No. ARS. 1283/3198/D-II, dated 4th February, 1991 (M.G., Part IV-B, Pages 267) - Whereas, on a
representation from the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority it appears to the Government of
Maharashtra that in order to enable the said Authority to discharge its functions or to exercise its powers or to carry out
its proposals, plans or projects set out in the Schedule hereto it is necessary that the lands with building specified In
schedule thereof (hereinafter referred to as "the said lands with buildings" should be acquired);
And whereas, the Government of Maharashtra as required by the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 41 of the
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976 (Maharashtra XXVIII of 1977) (hereinafter referred to as "the
said Act") has by its notice No. ARS. 1283/3198111, dated 5th September, 1983 published on pages 615 to 618 of Part
IV-B, Maharashtra Government Gazette, Extraordinary No. 214, dated the 8th September; 1990 and served in the
prescribed manner, called upon the person mentioned in column 3 of Part II of the Schedule hereto who is the owner of
the said land with building mentioned in Column 1 of the said schedule against him, to show-cause within a period of
thirty days from the date of the publication of the aforesaid notice in the Maharashtra Government Gazette (hereinafter
referred to as "the said period") why the said land with building should not be acquired;
And whereas the cause shown by the said owner has been considered by the Government;
Therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 41 of the said Act the Government of
Maharashtra hereby decides to acquire, to the said land with building in pursuance of the said section.
G.N., H. & A. D. D. No. ADL. 1189/(2140)/D-X, dated 26th July, 1991 (M.G., Part IV-B, Pages 1108) - Whereas, on a
representation from the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority, it appears to the Government of
Maharashtra that in order to enable the said Authority to discharge its functions or to exercise its powers or to carry out
its proposals, plans or projects set out in Part I of the Schedule hereto it is necessary that the lands specified in Part II
thereof (hereinafter referred to as "the said land") should be acquired;
And whereas, the Government of Maharashtra, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 41 of
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976 (Maharashtra XXVIII of 1977) proposes to acquire the said
lands;
Now, therefore, as required by the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 41 of the said Act, notice is hereby given to
persons mentioned in column(4) of the said Part II of the Schedule hereto who are the owners of, or who in the opinion
of the Government of Maharashtra are interested in the said lands respectively mentioned in column 1 of the said Part II
against them to show cause, if any within a period of thirty days from the date of publication of this Notice in the
Maharashtra Government Gazette, why they should not be acquired. Any objection which may be received by the
Ex-Officio Secretary to Government Housing and Special Assistance Department, and the Chief Executive Officer and
Vice-President, Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority, Griha Nirman Bhavan, Bandra (East), Bombay
400 051 from any of the aforesaid persons with respect to the said proposal before the expiry of the aforesaid period
shall be considered by the Government.
Schedule 20
Description of lands with building
Page 117/128
----- PAGE 118 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
Approximate area of lands proposed to be acquired
Name of the owner of the lands with building
(1)
(2)
(3)
Sq. metres
1. B. No. 9D Umarkhadi, 1st Lane, C. S. No. 1842 of
Mandvi Division.
43.48
(1) Fakir Mohammed Haji Ali Mohamed.
(2) Abdulla Haji Ali Mohamed.
(3) Ahmed Haji Ali Mohamed.
(4) Abdul Rahman Haji Ali Mohamed.
(5) Khatiyabai Haji Ali Mohamed.
(6) Aminabai Haji Ali Mohamed.
(7) Mariyambai Haji Ali Mohamed.
(8) Rahimabai Haji All Mohamed.
(Legal heirs of Shri Haji Ismail Haji
Suleman?deceased).
2. 9E, Umarkhadi, 1st Lane, C. S. No. 1843 of
Mandvi Division.
35.12
Hardeep singh Sant singh.
3. 11, Umarkhadi, 1st Lane, C. S. No. 1840 (Part)
of Mandvi Division.
25.08
The Vic. Joseph's Church.
103.68
G.N. H. & S.A.D., No. ARS. 1491/CR 2743/Desk II, dated 17th December, 1991 (M.G., Part IV-B, Pages 1080) -
Whereas, on a representation from the Bombay Housing and Area Development Board, it appears to the Government of
Maharashtra that in order to enable the said Board to discharge its function or to exercise its powers or to carryout its
proposals and plans, it is necessary that the lands with the building specified hereto (hereinafter referred to as the "said
lands" with buildings) should be acquired;
And whereas, the Government of Maharashtra in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of the section 41
of the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976 (Maharashtra XXVIII of 1977) proposes to acquire the
said land with buildings (if any);
Now therefore, as required by the provision to sub-section (1) of section 41 of the Maharashtra Housing and Area
Development Act, 1976. Notice is hereby given to persons mentioned in column 3 of the schedule hereto, who are the
owners of or who, in the opinion of the Government of Maharashtra are interested in the said land with the buildings
respectively mentioned in column 1 of the said schedule against them to show cause, if any within a period of thirty days
from the date of publication of this notice in the Maharashtra Government Gazette, why they should not be acquired?
any objections which may be received from any of the said persons in respect of the said proposal before the enquiry of
the aforesaid period shall be considered by the Ex-Officio Deputy Secretary to Government and the Secretary,
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority, Gnha Nirman Bhavan, Bandra (East), Bombay 400 051.
Schedule 21
Part I ? Reconstruction of scheme property bearing C. S. Nos. 197, 198, 2/198 at Tardeo Road, 14A, 8, C, D, E, F and
16 A, B, C, D, Arab Gully.
Part II ? {|
|-
| Description of lands with building
| Approximate areas of C.S. No. proposed to be
Page 118/128
----- PAGE 119 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
acquired in Sq. Mtrs
| Name of the owner of the lands with building
|-
|
| C.S. No.
| Area
|
|-
| (1)
| (2)
| (3)
|-
| Sq. metres
|-
|
| 198
| 2453.19
|
|-
| Building No. 14 A, B, C, D, E, F, Arab Lane, Tadeo
Road, Bombay.
| 198
| 348.66
| (1) Building No. 14 A, B, C, D, E, F, Shri Tadaram
Dhanrajmal and Bhagchand Tahilram Lalubhai, Sindhi, Nagar, Block
13.
, Cleveland Road, Bombay 400 013.
|-
| Building No. 16. A. B. C. D, Arab Lane Tardeo Road
, Bombay.
| 197
| 20.81.95
| (2) Building No. 16-A, B, C, D, Arab Lane, Shri
Huseinbhai Mahmed Husein, 169, Doctor Street, Top floor, Bombay
|-
|
| Total
| 4883.8
|
|}
G.N., H. & S.A.D., No. ADL. 2387/1888 II/D-X, dated 16th April, 1992 (M.G., Part IV-B, Pages 585) - Whereas, on a
representation from the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority, Government of Maharashtra is satisfied
that with a view to enable the said Authority to discharge its functions or to exercise its powers or to carry out its
proposals, plans or projects set out in Part I of the Schedule hereto it is necessary that the land specified in Part II
thereof (hereinafter referred to as "the said land") should be acquired;
And whereas, the Government of Maharashtra, as required by the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 41 of the
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976 (Maharashtra XXVIII of 1977) (hereinafter referred to as "the
said Act") has by its notice No. ADL. 2387/1888/0-X, dated 10th March, 1989 published at pages 360 to 363 Part IV-B of
the Maharashtra Government Gazette, dated the 23rd March, 1989 and served in the prescribed manner calling upon
the persons mentioned in column 4 of Part II of the Schedule hereto, who are the owner of or who, in the opinion of the
Government of Maharashtra, is/are interested in the said lands, respectively mentioned in column 1 of the said Part If
Page 119/128
----- PAGE 120 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
against him to show cause within a period of thirty days from the date of the publication of the aforesaid notice in the
Maharashtra Government Gazette (hereinafter referred to as "the said period") why the said lands should not be
acquired;
And whereas, the cause shown by the said owner(s) and other persons interested in the said land within the said period
has been considered by the Government;
Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 41 of the said Act, the Government of
Maharashtra hereby decide to acquire the said lands in pursuance of the said section.
Schedule 22
Part I ? For the purpose of construction of tenements under E. W. S/L.I.G., and for execution of Area Development
Scheme at Solapur.
Part II ? {|
|-
| Survey No.
| Village
| Area
| Names of the owners/persons Interest therein
|-
| 1
| 2
| 3
| 4
|-
|
|
| H.
| Ares
|
|-
| 30
| Dahitane
| 04
| 30.00
| Sau. Kumudini Vasantrao Mahthaikar.
|-
| 31/1
| Dahitane
| 00
| 70.00
| Shri Narayan Tukaram SarvadeShri Kalappa
|-
| 31/2
| Dahitane
| 00
| 81.00
| Shri Haji Gajibaksha Alla baksha Karche.Rajibhai
Allabaksha Karche.Rashbai Allabaksha Karche.Aqtar
Hajagaji Karche.Jaftar Hajigaji Karche.Khajabhai Hajigaji
Karche.Attar Rajibhai Karche.Shoukat Kashabhai Karche.
|-
| 31/3(pt)
| Dahitane
Page 120/128
----- PAGE 121 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
| 00
| 84.50
| Devidar Mahadev Pawar.Haridas Mahadev Pawar.Smt.
Kalawati Vitthal Chavan.Smt. Suman Shivaji Babar.Smt.
Pramila Shivaji Anapal.Smt. Tilottama Sharad Varate.
|-
| 31/4
| Dahitane
| 00
| 81.00
| Solapur Timber Merchant
|-
|
|
|
|
| Association (President Kallapa Dattapa Vadje)
|-
| 115/1A
| Kasbe-Solapur
| 00
| 91.00
| Subhana Sidu Bhosale.
|-
| 115/1B/1
| Kasbe
| 00
| 15.00
| Manjaram Narayan Shinde.Rajesh Chandrakant Shinde.Ranjiji
Shivaraj Shinde.Bararang Sidram Kokane.Maruti Dattu
Shinde.Suryakant Manjuram Shinde.Jetinga Ganpati Hotkar.
|-
| 115/1B/2
| Kasbe-Solapur
| 00
| 91.00
| Dattu Subhana Bhosale.
|-
| 115/1C
| Kasbe-Solapur
| 00
| 82.00
| Tukaram Subhana Bhosale.
|-
| 115/2
| Kasbe-Solapur
| 00
| 2.00
| Subhana Lingappa, Vitthal Babu, Sidhu Bhosale.
|-
| 115/3
Page 121/128
----- PAGE 122 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
| Kasbe-Solapur
| 02
| 64.00
| Dnyaneshwar and Vithabai Lingappa Bhosale.Jankibai Vitthal
Shinde.Mathurabai Pandurang Chougule.
|-
| 115/4
| Kasbe-Solapur
| 02
| 75.00
| Vitthal and Sidheshwar Sattu Bhosale.
|-
| 115/5
| Kasbe-Solapur
| 02
| 39.00
| Vitthal Sidhu Bhosale.
|-
| 115/6
| Kasbe-Solapur
| 03
| 29.00
| Babu Sidhu Bhosale.
|-
| 117/2A
| Kasbe-Solapur
| 03
| 14.00
| Ram Babu Sarvade.
|-
| 116/2
| Kasbe-Solapur
| 02
| 68.00
| Shankar Babu Sarvade.
|-
| 117/1A
| Kasbe-Solapur
| 06
| 67.00
| Babu Dattu Sarvade.
|-
| 117/1C
| Kasbe-Solapur
| 01
| 83.00
| Shankar Babu Sarvade.
|-
| 117/2B
| Kasbe-Solapur
| 06
Page 122/128
----- PAGE 123 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
| 47.00
| Maruti Babu Sarvade.
|-
| 118/1
| Kasbe-Solapur
| 02
| 10.00
| Babu Dattu Bhosale.
|-
| 118/3
| Kasbe-Solapur
| 01
| 81.00
| Shankar Babu Sarvade.
|-
| 121
| Kasbe-Solapur
| 03
| 80.00
| Nlikanthappi Dhaniingappa Alamelkar.
|-
| 103/2A
| Solapur
| 00
| 16.74
| Shri Chhatrapti Co-op. Hsg., Society(Chief Promoter)Shri
V. B. Waghmare.
|-
| 103/26
| Solapur
| 00
| 17.46
| Gondhali Samaj Seva Mandal Panch Committee.(1) D. B.
Shinde, (2) A. S. Waghmare, (3) V. T. Mane, (4) S. N. Waghmare,
(5)
V. T. Pachare.
|-
| 107/A/1
| Solapur
| 00
| 28.60
| Shri R. S. Dargopatil.
|-
| 107/A/2
| Solapur
| 00
| 28.60
| Shri S. S. Dargopatil.
|-
| 110/2
| Solapur
Page 123/128
----- PAGE 124 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
| 00
| 90.00
| Shri Vithoba Mogiappe Pogul.
|-
| 108
| Solapur
| 00
| 24.40
| Shri L. S. Dargopatil
|}
G.N., H. & S.A.D., No. ADL. 1189/2110/Desk-X, dated 24th April, 1992 (M.G., Part IV-B, Pages 588) - Whereas, on a
representation from the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority Government of Maharashtra is satisfied
that with view to enable the said Authority to discharge its functions or to exercise its powers or to carry out its
proposals, plans or projects set out in Part I of the Schedule hereto, it is necessary that the land specified in Part II
thereof (hereinafter referred to as "the said land") should be acquired;
And whereas, the Government of Maharashtra, as required by the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 41 of the
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976 (Maharashtra XXVIII of 1977), (hereinafter referred to as "the
said Act") has by its notice No. ADL. 1189/2110-DX, dated 2nd September, 1989 published at pages 1036 to 1037, Part
IV-B of the Maharashtra Government Gazette, dated the 21st September, 1989 and served in the prescribed manner
called upon the persons mentioned in the column 4 of Part II of the Schedule hereto who is/are the owner of or who, in
the opinion of the Government of Maharashtra, is/are interested in the said lands, respectively mentioned in columns 1
to 2 of the said Part II against him to show-cause within a period of thirty days from the date of the publications of the
aforesaid notice in the Maharashtra Government Gazette, (hereinafter referred to as "the said period") why the said
lands should not be acquired;
And whereas, the cause shown by the said owner and other persons interested in the said land within the said period
has been considered by the Government;
Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 41 of the said Act, the Government of
Maharashtra hereby decided to acquired the said lands in pursuance of the said section.
Schedule 23
For the purpose of construction of tenements under E. W. S./L. I. G./M. I. G./ H. I. G. and for the purpose of Area
Development Schemes at Mouza Latur, District Latur by Aurangabad Housing and Area Development Board.
Part II ? District Latur, Taluka Latur, Village Latur
Survey No.
Hissa No.
Names of the owners of the person Interest
therein
1
2
3
H.
Ares
District Solapur, Village Kasbe-Solapur
97/A
2
57.0
Shri Ramesh Narayan Pande.
97/C
5
69.0
Shri Hanmat Tuljaram Gojamagunde,B.L. Sawarnakar,
MukhyaPrawatak, Niyojit (Darshan)Sahakari Grih Nirman
Page 124/128
----- PAGE 125 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
Sanstha, Latur.
97/2
1
66.4
Shri Baliram Vithoba Chalwad.
Total
992.4
G.N., H. & S.A.D., No. ADL. 2387/1888-II/D-X, dated 9th September, 1992 (M.G., Part IV-B, Pages 1610)
Government Notification No. ADL. 2387/1888-II/D-X, dated 16th April, 1992, published in the Maharashtra Government
Gazette, Part IV-B, dated 21st May, 1992 at pages 585 to 588 for acquiring lands at Solapur under the Maharashtra
Housing and Area Development Act, 1976 may be substituted by the following Notification -
No. ADL. 2387/1888-WO-X. - Whereas, on a representation from the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development
Authority, Government of Maharashtra is satisfied that with a view to enable the said Authority to discharge its functions
or to exercise its powers or to carry out its proposals, plans or projects set out in Part I of the Schedule hereto it is
necessary that the land specified in Part II thereof (hereinafter referred to as "the said land") should be acquired;
And whereas, the Government of Maharashtra as required by the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 41 of the
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976 (Maharashtra XXVIII of 1977) (hereinafter referred to as "the
said Act") has by its notice No. ADL. 2387/1888/D-X, dated 10th March, 1989 published at pages 360 to 363 Part IV-B of
the Maharashtra Government Gazette, dated the 23rd March, 1989 and served in the prescribed manner calling upon
the persons mentioned in column 4 of Part II of the Schedule hereto who are the owner of, or who in the opinion of the
Government of Maharashtra are interested in, the said lands, respectively mentioned in column 1 of the said Part II
against him/them to show cause within a period of thirty days from the date of publication of the aforesaid notice in the
Maharashtra Government Gazette, (hereinafter referred to as "the said period") why the said lands should not be
acquired;
And whereas, the cause shown by the said owner(s) and other persons interested in the said land/ lands within the said
period has been considered by the Government;
Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by the sub-section (1) of section 41 of the said Act, the Government
of Maharashtra hereby decides to acquire the said lands in pursuance of the said section.
Schedule 24
Part I ? For the purpose of construction of tenements under E. W. S./L. I. G. and for execution of Area Development
Scheme at Solapur.
Survey No.
Village
Area
Names of the owners/persons Interest therein
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
H.
Ares
30
Dahitane
4
30.00
Late Kumudini Vasantrao Manthalkar.
31/1
Dahitane
0
70.00
Shri Narayan Tukaram SaravadeShri Kallappa.
Page 125/128
----- PAGE 126 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
31/2
Dahitane
0
81.00
Shri Haji Gajibaksha Allabax KarcheShri Rajabhai Allabax
KarcheShri Bashabhai Allabax KarcheShri Akhtar Rajabhai
KarcheShri Jafar Haji Gajibax KarcheShri Khajabhai Haji
Gajibax KarcheShri Shaukat Haji Gajibax Karche
31/3(Pt)(Plot No: 34, 10, 11)
Dahitane
0
51.48
Shri Devidar Mahadev PawarShri Haridas Madhadev PawarSmt.
Kalawati Vitthal ChavanSmt. Suman Shivaji BabarSmt.
Pramila Shivaji AnapalSmt. Tilottama Sharad VarateSmt.
Pushpa Madan ChakoteShri Chinchokappa Basappa TallikarSmt.
Kamal Mohan Soniminde
31/4
Dahitane
0
81.00
Solapur Timber Merchant Association(President Shri Kalappa
Dattaba Vadaje)
115/1/A
Kasbe Solapur
0
91.00
Shri Subhana Sidu BhosaleSmt. Shantabai Subhana
BhosaleShri Sidram Subhana BhosaleShri Laxman Subhana
BhosaleShri Ram Subhana Bhosale
115/IB/I
Kasbe Solapur
0
15.00
Shri Manjuram Narayan ShindeShri Rajesh Chandrakant
ShindeShri Ranoji Shivram ShindeShri Bajrang Sidram
KokaneShri Maruti Datta ShindeShri Suryakant Manjuram
ShindeShri Jelinga Ganpati Hotker
115/1B/2
Kasbe Soiapur
0
91.00
Shri Datta Subhana Bhosale.
115/1/C
Kasbe Solapur
0
82.00
Shri Tukaram Subhana Bhosale
115/2
Kasbe Solapur
0
Page 126/128
----- PAGE 127 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
02.00
Shri Vithal Sidhu BhosaleSmt. Subhana Sidhu BhosaleShri
Linganna Sidhu BhosaleShri Balu Sidhu BhosaleShri Vithal
Santu Bhosle
115/3
Kasbe Solapur
2
64.00
Shri Dhyaneshwar Lingappa BhosleSmt. Vithabai Lingappa
BhosleSmt, Mathurabai Pandurang BhosleSmt. Jankibai
Vithal Shinde
115/4
Kasbe Solapur
2
75.00
Shri Vithal Satu BhosleSidheshwar Satu Bhosle
115/5
Kasbe Solapur
2
39.00
Shri Vithal Sidu BhosleShri Laxman Maniappa Chougule
117/2-A
Kasbe Solapur
3
14.00
Shri Ram Babu Sarvade
116/2
Kasbe Solapur
2
68.00
Shri Shankar Babu Sarvade
117/1/A
Kasbe Solapur
6
67.00
Shri Babu Dattu Sarvade
117/1-C
Kasbe Solapur
1
83.00
Shri Shankar Babu Sarvade
02/08/17
Kasbe Solapur
6
47.00
Shri Maruti Babu Sarvade
118/1
Kasbe Solapur
2
10.00
Shri Babu Dattu Sarvade
Page 127/128
----- PAGE 128 -----
Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976
118/3
Kasbe Solapur
1
81.00
Shankar Babu Sarvade
121
Kasbe Solapur
3
0.50
Neelkanthappa Dhanlingappa Alamelkar
103/2A
Solapur
0
16.74
Shri Vithal Balappa Waghmare,Chief Promoter. Shri
Chatrapati Co-op. Hsg. Society.
103/2B
Solapur
0
17.46
Gondhali Samaj Sevamandal Panch Committee.Shri Apparao
Sidramappa WaghmareShri Vithal Tukaram ManeShri
Sarkrishna Nagnath WaghmareShri Vishnu Tukaram PachgeShri
Dhondiba Balu Shinde
04/01/07
Solapur
0
28.60
Shri Revansiddappa Shankarappa
107/A/2
DargopatilShri Siddramappa
ShankarappaDargopatil
110/2
Solapur
0
90.00
Shri Vithoba Mogalappa Fogul
108
Solapur
0
24.40
Shri Kashinath Shankarappa Dargopatil
1+2A+5+4A
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 128/128