
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Essential Commodities (Maharashtra Amendment) Act, 1975
The Essential Commodities (Maharashtra Amendment) Act, 1975
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/115697691/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
2
]
State of Maharashtra - Act
The Essential Commodities (Maharashtra Amendment) Act, 1975
MAHARASHTRA
India
The Essential Commodities (Maharashtra Amendment) Act, 1975
Act 1 of 1976
Published on 3 January 1976
Commenced on 3 January 1976
[This is the version of this document from 3 January 1976.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Essential Commodities (Maharashtra Amendment) Act, 1975
(Maharashtra Act
No. 1 of 1976
)
[Dated 3rd January, 1976]
For Statement of Objects and Reasons, see Maharashtra Government Gazette, 1975, Part V, page 705.
An Act to amend the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, in its application to the State of Maharashtra.
Whereas both Houses of the Legislature of the State were not in Session;
And Whereas the Governor of Maharashtra was satisfied that circumstances existed which rendered it necessary for
him to take immediate action for amending the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, in its application to the State of
Maharashtra, for the purposes hereinafter appearing; and, therefore, promulgated the Essential Commodities
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Essential Commodities (Maharashtra Amendment) Act, 1975
(Maharashtra Amendment) Ordinance, 1975, on the 12th day of November, 1975;
And Whereas it is expedient to replace the said Ordinance by an Act of the State Legislature; It is hereby enacted in the
Twenty-sixth Year of the Republic of India as follows :-
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
This Act may be called the Essential Commodities (Maharashtra Amendment) Act, 1975.
(2)
It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 12th day of November, 1975.
2.
Amendment of section 2 of Act X of 1955.
- In section 2 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955, in its application to the State of Maharashtra (hereinafter referred
to as "the principal Act"),-
(a)
after the words the context otherwise requires,-" and before clause (a), the following clause shall be inserted, namely :-
"(ai) 'Collector' in Greater Bombay means the Controller of Rationing and includes any Deputy or Assistant Controller of
Rationing, and elsewhere means the Collector of the District and includes any Assistant or Deputy Collector or District
Supply Officer within his respective jurisdiction;"
(b)
after clause (b), the following clauses shall be inserted, namely :-
"(ba) 'holder', in relation to any agricultural land, means the person in actual possession of such land, and includes a
company or other body corporate, firm, association, joint family or body of individuals in joint possession of such land;
(bb)
'holding' means the aggregate of all lands in possession of a holder;".
3.
Amendment of section 3 of Act X of 1955.
- In section 3 of the principal Act,-
(a)
in sub-section (2), for clause (f). the following clause shall be substituted, and shall be deemed always to have been
substituted, namely :-
"(f) for requiring any person holding in stock or likely to hold in stock, or engaged in the manufacture or production or
processing of, or in the business of buying or selling, any essential commodity, to sell, the whole or a specified part of
the quantity of the essential commodity held in stock or likely to be held in stock by him or manufactured or produced; or
4.
Substitution of section 6-A of Act X of 1955.
- For section 6-A of the principal Act, the following section shall be substituted, namely :
"6-A. Confiscation of seized commodities. - (1) Where any essential commodity is seized in pursuance of an order made
under section 3 in relation thereto, a report to that effect shall, without any unreasonable delay, be sent to the Collector
within whose jurisdiction the seizure is made, and the Collector may, if he thinks it expedient so to do, inspect or cause
to be inspected such essential commodity, and whether or not a prosecution is instituted for the contravention of such
order, the Collector, if satisfied that there has been contravention of the order, may order confiscation of -
(a)
the essential commodity so seized; processed or likely to be manufactured or produced or processed by him or received
or likely to be received by him in his business of buying or selling, to the Central Government or to the State
Government or to an officer or agent of any Government or to such other person or class of persons and in such
circumstances as may be specified in the order :
Explanation. - An order made under this clause in respect of foodgrains may fix or provide for fixation of the quantity to
be sold by a producer with reference to the nature and extent of his holding or the land revenue payable by him with
certain weightages which may be prescribed for certain crops or lands enjoying irrigation or other facilities and also fix or
provide for fixation of the quantity to be sold on a graded basis having regard to the size of the holdings of different
producers.";
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Essential Commodities (Maharashtra Amendment) Act, 1975
(b)
in sub-section (3), for clause (c), the following clause shall be substituted, and shall be deemed always to have been
substituted, namely :-
"(c) where neither clause (a) nor clause (b) applies, in the case of foodgrains, the amount, if any, specified in or
calculated in accordance with the order made under clause (f) of sub-section (2) read with sub-section (3-B) and in the
case of any other essential commodity, the price calculated at the market rate prevailing in the locality at the date of
sale.";
(c)
for sub-section (3-B), the following sub-section shall be substituted, and shall be deemed always to have been
substituted namely :-
"(3-B) Where, by any order made with reference to clause (f) of sub-section (2) any person is required to sell any grade
or variety of foodgrains, edible oilseeds or edible oils to the Central Government or a State Government or an officer or
agent of such Government or a Corporation owned or controlled by such Government or to a person or class of persons
specified in the order, and either no notification in respect of such foodgrains, edible oilseeds or edible oils has been
issued under sub-section (3-A) or any such notification having been issued, has ceased to remain in force by efflux of
time then, notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (3), there shall be paid to the person concerned an amount
determined by the Central Government or the State Government, as the case may be,-
(a)
having regard to the controlled price, if any, fixed under this section or by or under any law for the time being in force for
such grade or variety of foodgrains, edible oilseeds or edible oils, or
(b)
having regard to the prices recommended by the Agricultural Prices Commission for the concerned essential
commodity, where no controlled price in relation to such commodity, has been fixed by or under any law for the time
being in force."
5.
Amendment of section 6-C of Act X of 1955.
(a)
In section 6-C of the principal Act, in sub-section (2), for the words "such person shall be paid" the words, brackets,
figures and letter "such person shall, except as provided by sub-section (3) of section 6-A, be paid" shall be substituted.
(b)
any package, covering or receptable in which such essential commodity is found; and
(c)
any animal, vehicle, vessel or other conveyance used in carrying such essential commodity :
Provided that, without prejudice to any action that may be taken under any other provision of this Act, no foodgrains or
edible oilseeds, seized in pursuance of an order made under section 3 in relation thereto from a producer shall, if the
seized foodgrains, or edible oilseeds have been produced by him, be confiscated under this section :
Provided further that, where any animal, vehicle, vessel or other conveyance is used for the carriage of goods or
passengers for hire, the owner of such animal, vehicle, vessel or other conveyance shall be given an option to pay in
lieu of its confiscation a fine not exceeding the market price at the date of seizure of the essential commodity sought to
be carried.
(2)
Where the Collector on receiving a report of seizure or on inspection of any essential commodity under sub-section (1) is
of the opinion that such essential commodity is subject to speedy and natural decay or that it is otherwise expedient in
the public interest so to do, he may order the same to be sold at the controlled price, if any, fixed under any for the time
being in force, or where no such price is fixed, by auction :
Provided that, in the case of foodgrains where there is no controlled price, the Collector may order the foodgrains seized
to be sold through fair price shops at the price fixed by the Central Government or the State Government, as the case
may be, for the sale of such foodgrains to the public through these shops :
Provided further that, whenever it is practicable so to do, have regard to the nature of the essential commodity, he shall
take and preserve sample of the same before its sale or auction.
(3)
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Essential Commodities (Maharashtra Amendment) Act, 1975
Where any essential commodity is sold as aforesaid, the sale proceeds thereof, after deduction of the expenses of the
sale or auction, as the case may be, shall -
(a)
where no order of confiscation is ultimately passed by the Collector; or
(b)
where an order passed on appeal under sub-clause (1) of section 6-C so require; or
(c)
in the case of a prosecution being instituted for the contravention of the order in respect of which an order of confiscation
has been made under this section, where the person concerned is acquitted,-
be paid to the owner thereof or the person from whom it is seized ;
Provided that, in the case of foodgrains sold through fair price shops in accordance with the first proviso to sub-section
(2), the owner shall be paid for the foodgrains so sold the price fixed by the State Government, for retail sale of such
foodgrains through such shops, less all expenses of sale or auction under sub-section (2)."
6.
Validation.
- Notwithstanding anything contained in any judgment, decree or order of any Court, any order relating to foodgrains
made by the State Government under section 3 of the principal Act, with reference to clause (f) of sub-section (2) of that
section, before the commencement of this Act, shall be deemed to have been made under the said section 3 as
amended by section 3 of this Act as if section 3 of this Act was always in operation and accordingly any such order shall
be valid and shall always be deemed to be valid.
7.
Repeal of Maharashtra Ordinance XIX of 1975 and saving.
(1)
The Essential Commodities (Maharashtra Amendment) Ordinance, 1975, is hereby repealed.
(2)
Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken under the principal Act, as amended by the said
Ordinance, shall be deemed to have been done or taken, as the case may be, under the said Act as amended by this
Act.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4