
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Maharashtra Housing and Area Development (Maharashtra Slum Improvement Fund) Rules, 19...
The Maharashtra Housing and Area Development (Maharashtra Slum
Improvement Fund) Rules, 1988
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/54979923/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Maharashtra - Act
The Maharashtra Housing and Area Development (Maharashtra Slum Improvement Fund) Rules, 1988
MAHARASHTRA
India
The Maharashtra Housing and Area Development (Maharashtra Slum Improvement Fund) Rules, 1988
Rule
THE-MAHARASHTRA-HOUSING-AND-AREA-DEVELOPMENT-MAHARASHTRA-SLUM-IMPROVEMENT-FUND-RUL
ES-1988 of 1988
Published on 10 June 1988
Commenced on 10 June 1988
[This is the version of this document from 10 June 1988.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Maharashtra Housing and Area Development (Maharashtra Slum Improvement Fund) Rules, 1988
Published vide Notification No. G. N., H. & S. A. D. No. SCS. 1678/CR-65/D-7, dated 10th June, 1988 (M. G., 1988, Part
4B, p. 558)
In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) and clause (xvi) of sub-section (2) of section 184, read with
sub-sections (1) and (2) of section 117 of the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976 (Maharashtra
XXVIII of 1977) and of all other powers enabling it in that behalf, the Government of Maharashtra hereby makes the
following rules, namely :-
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Maharashtra Housing and Area Development (Maharashtra Slum Improvement Fund) Rules, 19...
1.
Short title.
- These rules may be called the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development (Maharashtra Slum Improvement Fund)
Rules, 1988.
2.
Definitions.
- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Act" means the Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Act, 1976;
(b)
"Board" means a Board, established under section 18 of the Act;
(c)
"Financial Controller" means the Financial Controller appointed by the Authority with the previous approval of
Government, under sub-section (1) of section 19;
(d)
"Fund" means the Maharashtra Slum Improvement Fund created under sub-rule (1) of rule 3;
(e)
"Government" means the Government of Maharashtra;
(f)
"Section" means section of the Act. Words and expressions used in these rules but not defined therein, shall have the
same meaning respectively assigned to them in the Act.
3.
Creation of Fund.
(1)
A Fund called "the Maharashtra Slum Improvement Fund" shall be created and maintained by the Authority.
(2)
It shall consist of -
(a)
the service charges recovered from the occupiers under section 114 and credited to the Fund; and
(b)
an annual contribution from Government and local authorities under section 118.
4.
Operation of Fund.
- The proceeds of the fund shall be utilised for-
(a)
payment of Grant-in-aid to the Municipal Corporation or Municipal Councils for carrying out such improvement works of
providing civic amenities to the occupants of the slum areas as the Board concerned may entrust to them or to any other
agency recognised by it under section 105;
(b)
expenditure on staff for improvement of slums;
(c)
any other purpose provided by Government from time to time for rehabilitation and improvement of conditions of slum
areas.
5.
Investment of surplus amount in the Fund.
- Any surplus amount in the Fund, which may not be required by the Board for performing its duties and functions under
Chapter IX of the Act, may be deposited by the Financial Controller in the Reserve Bank of India or in such Scheduled
Bank or invested in such securities as may be approved by Government under section 35.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2