
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Maharashtra Prevention Of Dangerous Activities Of Slumlords, Bootleggers, Drug-Offende...
The Maharashtra Prevention Of Dangerous Activities Of Slumlords,
Bootleggers, Drug-Offenders, Dangerous Persons And Video Pirates
Act, 1981
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/157402510/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
87
]
State of Maharashtra - Act
The Maharashtra Prevention Of Dangerous Activities Of Slumlords, Bootleggers, Drug-Offenders, Dangerous Persons
And Video Pirates Act, 1981
MAHARASHTRA
India
The Maharashtra Prevention Of Dangerous Activities Of Slumlords, Bootleggers, Drug-Offenders, Dangerous Persons
And Video Pirates Act, 1981
Act 55 of 1981
Published in Gazette 55 on 19 January 2017
Assented to on 19 January 2017
Commenced on 19 January 2017
[This is the version of this document from 19 January 2017.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Maharashtra Prevention Of Dangerous Activities Of Slumlords, Bootleggers, Drug-Offenders, Dangerous Persons
And Video Pirates Act, 1981
Act 55 of 1981
An Act to provide for preventive detention of Slumlords, Bootleggers and Drug-offenders, for preventing their dangerous
Page 1/7
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Maharashtra Prevention Of Dangerous Activities Of Slumlords, Bootleggers, Drug-Offende...
activities prejudicial to the maintenance of public order.
WHEREAS public order was adversely affected every now and then by the dangerous activities of certain persons, who
are known as Slumlords, Bootleggers and Drug-offenders;
AND WHEREAS both Houses of the State Legislature were not in session;
AND WHEREAS having regard to the resources and influence of the persons by whom, the large scale on which, and
the manner in which, the dangerous activities were being clandestinely organised and carried on in violation of law by
them, as Slumlords, Bootleggers or Drug-offenders in the State of Maharashtra, and particularly in its urban areas, the
Governor of Maharashtra was satisfied that circumstances existed which rendered it necessary for him to take
immediate action to have a special law in this State to provide for preventive detention of these three classes of persons
and for matters connected therewith and, therefore, promulgated the Maharashtra Prevention of Dangerous Activities of
Slumlords, Bootleggers and Drug-offenders Ordinance, 1981, on the 11th June, 1981;
AND WHEREAS it is expedient to replace the said Ordinance by an Act of the State Legislature; It is hereby enacted in
Thirty-second Year of the Republic of India as follows :?
1.
Short title, extent and commencement.
(1)
This Act may be called the Maharashtra Prevention of Dangerous Activities of Slumlords, Bootleggers Drug-offenders,
Dangerous persons and video pirates Act, 1981.
(2)
It extends to the whole of the State of Maharashtra.
(3)
It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 11th June, 1981.
2.
Definition
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,?
(a)
?acting in any manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public order? means?
(i)
in the case of a slumlord, when he is engaged, or is making preparations for engaging, in any of his activities as a
slumlord, which affect adversely, or are likely to affect adversely, the maintenance of public order;
(ii)
in the case of a bootlegger, when he is engaged, or is making preparations for engaging, in any of his activities as a
bootlegger, which affect adversely, or are likely to affect adversely, the maintenance of public order;
(iii)
in the case of a drug-offender, when he is engaged, or is making preparations for engaging, in any of his activities as a
drug-offender, which affect adversely, or are likely to affect adversely, the maintenance of public order;
(iv)
in the case of a dangerous person, when he is engaged, or is making preparation for engaging, in any of his activities as
a dangerous person, which affect adversely, or are likely to affect adversely, the maintenance of public order.;
(v)
in the case of video pirate, when he is engaged or is making preparations for engaging in any of his activities as a video
pirates, which affect adversely or likely to affect adversely, the maintenance of public order.
Explanation.?For the purpose of this clause (a), public order shall be deemed to have been affected adversely, or shall
be deemed likely to be affected adversely, inter alia, if any of the activities of any of the persons referred to in this
clause, directly or indirectly, is causing or calculated to cause any harm, danger or alarm or a feeling of insecurity,
among the general public or any section thereof or a grave or widespread danger to life or public health; or disturbs the
life of the community by producing and distributing pirated copies of music or film products, thereby resulting in a loss of
confidence in administration.;
(b)
?bootlegger? means a person, who distills, manufactures, stores, transports, imports, exports, sells or distributes any
liquor, intoxicating drug or other intoxicant in contravention of any provisions of the Bombay Prohibition Act, 1949 and
Page 2/7
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Maharashtra Prevention Of Dangerous Activities Of Slumlords, Bootleggers, Drug-Offende...
the rules and orders made thereunder, or of any other law for the time being in force or who knowingly expends or
applies any money or supplies any animal, vehicle, vessel or other conveyance or any receptacles or any other
materials whatsoever in furtherance or support of the doing any of the above mentioned things by or through any other
person, or who abets in any other manner the doing of any such thing;
(b-1) ?dangerous person? means a person, who either by himself or as a member or leader of a gang, habitually
commits, or attempts to commit or abets the commission of any of the offences punishable under Chapter XVI or
Chapter XVII of the Indian Penal Code or any of the offences punishable under Chapter V of the Arms Act, 1959.;
(c)
?detention order? means an order made under section 3;
(d)
?detenu? means a person detained under a detention order;
(e)
?drug-offender? means a person, who manufactures, stocks, imports, exports sells or distributes any drug or cultivates
any plant or does any other thing in contravention of any provisions of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940 or the
Dangerous Drugs Act, 1930 or the rules and orders made under either Act or in contravention of any other law for the
time being in force, or who knowingly expends or applies any money in furtherance or support of the doing of any of the
above mentioned things by or through any other person, or who abets in any other manner the doing of any such thing;
(f)
?slumlord? means a person, who illegally takes possession of any lands (whether belonging to Government, local
authority or any other person) or enters into or creates illegal tenancies or leave and licence agreements or any other
agreements in respect of such lands, or who constructs unauthorised structures thereon for sale or hire, or gives such
lands to any persons on rental or leave and licence basis for construction, or use and occupation, of unauthorised
structures, or who knowingly gives financial aid to any persons for taking illegal possession of such lands, or for
construction of unauthorised structures thereon, or who collects or attempts to collect from any occupiers of such lands
rent, compensation or other charges by criminal intimidation, or who evicts or attempts to evict any such occupiers by
force without resorting to the lawful procedure, or who abets in any manner the doing of any of the abovementioned
things;
(f-1) ?video pirate? means a person against whom at least one chargesheet has already been filed under the Copyrights
Act, 1957 for infringement of copyrights relating to cinematograph film or sound recording and the Court has taken
cognizance of such offence; and who commits or attempts to commit or abets the commission of offences of
infringement of copyrights in relation to cinematograph film or sound recording or any part of sound track associated with
the film or sound recording, punishable under the said Act.;
(g)
?unauthorised structure? means any structure constructed, without express permission in writing of the Municipal
Commissioner in a Municipal Corporation area, and elsewhere of the Collector, or except in accordance with any law for
the time being in force in the area concerned.
3.
Power to make orders detaining certain persons.
(1)
The State Government may, if satisfied with respect to any person that with a view to preventing him from acting in any
manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public order, it is necessary so to do, make an order directing that such person
be detained.
(2)
If, having regard to the circumstances prevailing or likely to prevail in any area within the local limits of the jurisdiction of
a District Magistrate or a Commissioner of Police, the State Government is satisfied that it is necessary so to do, it may
by order in writing, direct, that during such period as may be specified in the order such District Magistrate or
Commissioner of Police may also, if satisfied as provided in sub-section (1), exercise the powers conferred by the said
sub-section :
Provided that the period specified in the order made by the State Government under this sub-section shall not, in the
first instance, exceed six months, but the State Government may, if satisfied as aforesaid that it is necessary so to do,
amend such order to extend such period from time to time by any period not exceeding three months at any one time.
Page 3/7
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Maharashtra Prevention Of Dangerous Activities Of Slumlords, Bootleggers, Drug-Offende...
(3)
When any order is made under this section by an officer mentioned in sub-section (2), he shall forthwith report the fact to
the State Government, together with the grounds on which the order has been made and such other particulars as, in
his opinion, have a bearing on the matter, and no such order shall remain in force for more than twelve days after the
making thereof, unless, in the meantime, it has been approved by the State Government.
4.
Execution of detention orders.
A detention order may be executed at any place in the State in the manner provided for the execution of warrants of
arrest under the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973.
5.
Power to regulate place and conditions of detention.
Every person in respect of whom a detention order has been made shall be liable?
(a)
to be detained in such place and under such conditions, including conditions as to maintenance, discipline and
punishment for breaches of discipline, as the State Government may, by general of special order, specify; and
(b)
to be removed from one place of detention to another place of detention, within the State by order of the State
Government.
6.
Detention orders not to be invalid or inoperative on certain grounds.
No detention order shall be invalid or inoperative merely by reason?
(a)
that the person to be detained thereunder though within the State is outside the limits of the territorial jurisdiction of the
officer making the order, or
(b)
that the place of detention of such person though within the State is outside the said limits.
7.
Powers in relation to absconding persons.
(1)
If the State Government, or an officer mentioned in sub-section (2) of section 3, has reason to believe that a person in
respect of whom a detention order has been made has absconded, or is concealing himself so that the order cannot be
executed, then the provisions of sections 82 to 86 (both inclusive) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, shall apply
in respect of such person and his property, subject to the modifications mentioned in this sub-section and, irrespective of
the place where such person ordinarily resides, the detention order made against him shall be deemed to be a warrant
issued by a competent Court. Where the detention order is made by the State Government, an officer, not below the
rank of District Magistrate or Commissioner of Police authorised by the State Government in this behalf, or where the
detention order is made by an officer mentioned in sub-section (2) of section 3, such officer, as the case may be, shall
irrespective of his ordinary jurisdiction be deemed to be empowered to exercise all the powers of the competent Court
under sections 82, 83, 84 and 85 of the said Code for issuing a proclamation for such person and attachment and sale
of his property situated in any part of the State and for taking any other action under the said sections. An appeal from
any order made by any such officer rejecting an application for restoration of attached property shall lie to the Court of
Session, having jurisdiction in the place where the said person ordinarily resides, as provided in section 86 of the said
Code.
(2)
(a)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), if the State Governmen or an officer mentioned in sub-section (2)
of section 3 has reason to believe that a person in respect of whom a detention order has been made has absconded or
is concealing himself so that the order cannot be executed, the State Government or the officer, as the case may be,
may, by order notified in the Official Gazette, direct the said person to appear before such officer, at such place and
within such period as may be specified in the order.
(b)
Page 4/7
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Maharashtra Prevention Of Dangerous Activities Of Slumlords, Bootleggers, Drug-Offende...
If such person fails to comply with such order, unless he proves that it was not possible for him to comply therewith, and
that he had, within the period specified in the order, informed the officer mentioned in the order of the reasons which
rendered compliance therewith impossible and of his whereabouts, or proves that it was not possible for him to so inform
the officer mentioned in the order, he shall, on conviction, be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend
to one year or with fine, or with both.
(c)
Notwithstanding anything contained in the said Code, every offence under clause (b) shall be cognizable.
8.
Grounds of order of detention to be disclosed to persons affected by the order
(1)
When a person is detained in pursuance of a detention order, the authority making the order shall, as soon as may be,
but not later than five days from the date of detention, communicate to him the grounds on which the order has been
made and shall afford him the earliest opportunity of making a representation against the order to the State Government.
(2)
Nothing in sub-section (1) shall require the authority to disclose facts which it considers to be against the public interest
to disclose.
9.
Constitution of Advisory Boards.
(1)
The State Government shall, whenever necessary, constitute one or more Advisory Boards for the purposes of this Act.
(2)
Every such Board shall consist of a Chairman and two other members, who are, or have been, Judges of any High
Court or who are qualified under the Constitution of India to be appointed as Judges of a High Court.
10.
Reference to Advisory Board.
In every case where a detention order has been made under this Act, the State Government shall, within three weeks
from the date of detention of a person under the order, place before the Advisory Board constituted by it under section 9
the grounds on which the order has been made and the representation, if any, made by the person affected by the
order, and in the case where the order has been made by an officer, also the report by such officer under sub-section (3)
of section 3.
11.
Procedure of Advisory Boards.
(1)
The Advisory Board shall, after considering the materials placed before it and, after calling for such further information
as it may deem necessary from the State Government or from any person called for the purpose through the State
Government or from the person concerned, and if, in any particular case, the Advisory Board considers it essential so to
do or if the person concerned desires to be heard, after hearing him in person, submit its report to the State
Government, within seven weeks from the date of detention of the person concerned.
(2)
The report of the Advisory Board shall specify in a separate part thereof the opinion of the Advisory Board as to whether
or not there is sufficient cause for the detention of the person concerned.
(3)
When there is difference of opinion among the members forming the Advisory Board, the opinion of the majority of such
members shall be deemed to be the opinion of the Board.
(4)
The proceedings of the Advisory Board and its report, excepting that part of the report in which the opinion of the
Advisory Board is specified, shall be confidential.
(5)
Nothing in this section shall entitle any person against whom a detention order has been made to appear by any legal
practitioner in any matter connected with the reference to the Advisory Board.
12.
Page 5/7
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Maharashtra Prevention Of Dangerous Activities Of Slumlords, Bootleggers, Drug-Offende...
Action upon report of Advisory Board.
(1)
In any case where the Advisory Board has reported that there is, in its opinion, sufficient cause for the detention of a
person, the State Government may confirm the detention order and continue the detention of the person concerned for
such period, not exceeding the maximum period prescribed by section 13, as it thinks fit.
(2)
In any case where the Advisory Board has reported that there is, in its opinion, no sufficient cause for the detention of
the person concerned, the State Government shall revoke the detention order and cause the person to be released
forthwith.
13.
Maximum period of detention.
The maximum period for which any person may be detained, in pursuance of any detention order made under this Act
which has been confirmed under section 12, shall be six months from the date of detention.
14.
Revocation of detention orders.
(1)
Without prejudice to the provisions of section 21 of the Bombay General Clauses Act, 1904, a detention order may, at
any time, be revoked or modified by the State Government, notwithstanding that the order has been made by an officer
mentioned in sub-section (2) of section 3.
(2)
The revocation or expiry of a detention order shall not bar the making of a fresh detention order under section 3 against
the same person, in any case, where fresh facts have arisen after the date of revocation or expiry, on which the State
Government or an officer, as the case may be, is satisfied that such an order should be made.
15.
Temporary release of persons detained.
(1)
The State Government may, at any time, direct that any person detained in pursuance of a detention order may be
released for any specified period, either without conditions or upon such conditions specified in the direction as that
person accepts, and may, at any time, cancel his release.
(2)
In directing the release of any detinue under sub-section (1), the State Governmen may require him to enter into a bond,
with or without sureties, for the due observance of the conditions specified in the direction.
(3)
Any person released under sub-section (1) shall surrender himself at the time and place, and to the authority, specified
in the order directing his release or cancelling his release, as the case may be.
(4)
If any person fails without sufficient cause to surrender himself in the manner specified in sub-section (3), he shall, on
conviction, be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both.
(5)
If any person released under sub-section (1) fails to fulfil any of the conditions imposed upon him under the said
sub-section or in the bond entered into by him, the bond shall be declared to be forfeited and any person bound thereby
shall be liable to pay the penalty thereof.
16.
Protection of action taken in good faith.
No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against the State Government or any officer or person, for
anything in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of this Act.
17.
Detention orders against any slumlord, bootlegger, drug-offender or dangerous person to be made under this Act and
not under National Security Act.
No order of detention under the National Security Act, 1980, shall be made by the State Government or any of its officer
under that Act,?
Page 6/7
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Maharashtra Prevention Of Dangerous Activities Of Slumlords, Bootleggers, Drug-Offende...
(a)
on and after the commencement of this Act, in respect of any slumlord, bootlegger or drug-offender;   .
(b)
on and after the commencement of the Maharashtra Prevention of Dangerous Activities of Slumlords, Bootleggers and
Drug-offenders (Amendment) Act, 1996, in respect of any dangerous person, on the ground of preventing him from
acting in any manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public order, where an order of detention may be or can be made
against such person under this Act; and
(c)
on and after the commencement of the Maharashtra Prevention of Dangerous Activities of Slumlords, Bootleggers,
Drug-offenders and Dangerous persons (Amendment) Act, 2009, in respect of any video pirate.
18.
Repeal of Mah. Ord. III of 1981 and saving.
(1)
The Maharashtra Prevention of Dangerous Activities of Slumlords, Bootleggers and Drug-offenders Ordinance, 1981, is
hereby repealed.
(2)
Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken (including any order made) under the said Ordinance
shall be deemed to have been done, taken or made, as the case may be, under the corresponding provisions of this Act.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 7/7