
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Meghalaya Adaptation of Laws Orders
The Meghalaya Adaptation of Laws Orders
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/57287654/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
2
]
State of Meghalaya - Act
The Meghalaya Adaptation of Laws Orders
MEGHALAYA
India
The Meghalaya Adaptation of Laws Orders
Rule THE-MEGHALAYA-ADAPTATION-OF-LAWS-ORDERS of 1951
Published on 13 April 1951
Commenced on 13 April 1951
[This is the version of this document from 13 April 1951.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Meghalaya Adaptation of Laws Orders
Published vide Notification No. TAD/R 31/50/49 of the Government of Assam, dated the 13th April, 1951
Last Updated 19th February, 2020
1.
Introduction.
- Meghalaya as formed as the Autonomous State by virtue of the Assam Re-organisation (Meghalaya) Act, 1969 (Assam
Act No. 55 of 1969) on and from the appointed day. Under Section 3 (1) of the said Act, within the State of Assam an
Autonomous State, to be known as Meghalaya comprising of-
(1)
The United Khasi Jaintia Hills District as described in sub-paragraph (2) of paragraph 20 of the Sixth Schedule to the
Constitution (exclusive of the proviso thereto) but excluding the areas transferred to Mikir Hills Autonomous District; and
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Meghalaya Adaptation of Laws Orders
(2)
the Garo Hills district specified in Part A of the table appended to para 20 of the Sixth Schedule to the Constitution of
India, has been existed.
Under Section 5 of the North-Eastern Areas (Re-organisation) Act, 1971, on and from the appointed day, the State of
Meghalaya was formed comprising of-
(a)
the territories which immediately before the appointed day were comprised in the autonomous State of Meghalaya
formed under Section 3 of the Assam Re-organisation (Meghalaya) Act, 1969; and
(b)
so much of the territories comprised within the cantonment and Municipality of Shillong as did not form part of the
Autonomous State;
and from such appointed day, the said territories ceased to form part of the existing State of Assam.
By virtue of Section 66 (2) of the Assam Re-organisation (Meghalaya) Act, 1969, for the purpose of facilitating the
application in relation to the Autonomous State of any law made before the appointed day, the appropriate Government,
may, within 2 years from that day, by order, made such adaptations or modifications of the law, whether by way of
repeal or amendment, as may be necessary or expedient and thereupon any such law shall have effect subject to the
adaptations and modifications so made until altered, repealed or amended by competent legislature or other competent
authority.
In this section the expression "Appropriate Government" means as respects any law relating to a matter enumerated in
the Union List in the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution, Central Government; as respects any law relating to a matter
in the Second Schedule, the Government of Meghalaya; and as respects any other law, the Government of Assam.
Section 79 of the North-Eastern Areas (Re-organisation) Act, 1971, provides the power for adaptations and
modifications of the law whether by way of repeal or modification, as may be necessary or expedient and thereupon
such law shall have effect subject to the adaptations and modifications so made until altered, repealed or amended by a
competent legislature or other competent authority.
Note - [For further details please refer to the respective provisions of the Assam Re-organisation (Meghalaya) Act, 1969
and North-Eastern Areas (Re-organisation) Act, 1971. Both the Acts have been printed in the subsequent volumes in
alphabetical order].
So empowered under the respective provisions of these Acts, the Government of Meghalaya, has adapted various
Laws, both Central and those applicable within the State of Assam comprising the areas within the State of Meghalaya
presently.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2