
----- PAGE 1 -----
Rules for the Establishment and Control of Forest Villages, 1969
Rules for the Establishment and Control of Forest Villages, 1969
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/24640854/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Nagaland - Act
Rules for the Establishment and Control of Forest Villages, 1969
NAGALAND
India
Rules for the Establishment and Control of Forest Villages, 1969
Rule RULES-FOR-THE-ESTABLISHMENT-AND-CONTROL-OF-FOREST-VILLAGES-1969 of 1969
Published on 1 March 1969
Commenced on 1 March 1969
[This is the version of this document from 1 March 1969.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Rules for the Establishment and Control of Forest Villages, 1969
Published vide Notification No. For-5 (Misc.) 43/67(3), dated the 1st March, 1969
Last Updated 18th February, 2020
Notification No. For-V (Misc.) 43/67(3), dated the 1st March, 1969. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Sections
72,74 and 75 of the Nagaland Forest Act, 1968 (Act 3 of 1968), the Governor of Nagaland is pleased to make the
following rules to regularise the establishment and control of the forest villages in the Government reserved forest within
the State of Nagaland.
These rules shall come into force with immediate effect. These rules shall apply to all areas to which the Nagaland
Forest Act, 1968 applies.
1.
Forest villages may be established within the limits of any reserved forest on sites, the location of which shall be
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
Rules for the Establishment and Control of Forest Villages, 1969
approved by the Chief Conservator of Forests in writing.
2.
Forest villages are designed for the purpose of providing a source of the suitable local labour and for forming and
maintaining plantations and taungyas and no tribes which are not habituated to living and working in the forest are
eligible for admission. Divisional Forest Officers may admit new entrants to existing forest villages in accordance with
the executive orders of the Chief Conservator of Forests.
3.
The boundaries of all permanent forest villages will be demarcated by boundary pillars and shown in maps together with
all interior details such as fields, homesteads, etc. and a register shall be maintained of the houses in each forest village.
4.
The Divisional Forest Officer is authorised to evict summarily from a forest village without payment of compensation
anyone who does not comply with the rules or whose refuses to carry out his orders so far as they are consistent with
the rules or who conduct impairs the harmonious working of the village. An appeal, however, shall lie to the Deputy
Commissioner of the district, but in the event of the latter disagreeing with the Divisional Forest Officer, the case must be
referred to the Chief Conservator of Forests whose decision shall be final.
5.
An allotment up to one acre of land to include homestead or bari will first be made for each resident household to which
will be added two acres of land on account of each working member residing in the household, but no household occupy
more than seven acres of land. Thus a household containing three workers or more including the householder would be
entitled to up to seven acres of land. The land given out to a household will not be reduced in extent during the
householder's occupancy, if the members of his household become subsequently reduced in number.
Note. - This rule shall not have retrospective effect in the case of these householders to whom more than seven acres of
land have already been allotted but may be given effect to on the decrease of the present occupier.
6.
On the decrease of a householder, the name of his male heir will be registered as a forest villager if he is considered by
the Divisional Forest Officer to be suitable in all respects, or in cases where a daughter is the heiress the name of her
husband should be recorded as the householder if he is suitable for employment as a forest villager. The names of heirs
who are minors will be recorded as forest villagers when they become fit for work or, in the case of females, when they
marry husbands suitable for employment as forest villagers, but nothing in this rule shall be held to recognise any
heritable right in and allotted to a forest villager.
7.
The sub-letting of land by a forest villager is not permissible in any circumstances, but with the permission of the
Divisional Forest Officer, servants may be engaged to assist in agricultural operations and their names shall be recorded
as temporary forest villagers.
8.
Land revenue shall be levied for the land (excluding homestead or bari) given to a forest villager at such rates as have
been approved by the Government.
9.
Each adult forest villager shall, if called upon, render 10 days' labour per annum at the rate of wages locally current.
10.
In addition to cultivating land at concessional rates of revenue for which an annual patta will be issued by the Divisional
Forest Officer, each householder in a forest village will be allowed free grazing for all necessary plough cattle and ten
heads of other cattle, but this term shall not include buffaloes in cases where on account of proximity to plantations or
other considerations they are likely to cause damage. Cattle belonging to outsider shall not be allowed to be kept by a
forest villager.
Note: - The number of necessary plough cattle is fixed as follows :
Land
under cultivation
Number
of plough cattle allowed free
Up to 4 acres
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
Rules for the Establishment and Control of Forest Villages, 1969
1 pair
Above 4 acres and up to 6 acres
2 pairs
For any excess number of cattle owned a forest villager for which free grazing is not allowed, grazing fees will be
realised at rates not less than those levied in the unclassed State forests. As in Rule 5 this will not have retrospective
effect.
11.
Adult male forest villagers shall pay for all forest produce taken by them at ordinary rates in force in the reserved forest
concerned, but may be allowed to remove free of royalty sufficient such building materials to erect and maintain their
houses as the Divisional Forest Officer considered necessary and 10 cart-loads of fuel annually, if they erect to render 5
days' labour in lieu of paying royalty. In cases where in his opinion it is justifiable the Divisional Forest Officer may allow
not more than one servant per household to remove forest produce to the above amount free of royalty without the
obligation to render 3 days' labour, by the servant concerned.
The general principle is that forest villagers who render free labour should be employed as far as possible in the vicinity
of their villages. If the labour is given under the preceding paragraph of his rule in return for free produce and work
cannot be found within a distance of five miles from the village concerned, it will be paid for at the current rate of wages
with a maximum of Rs. 3 per diem. Labour should not be called upon during the cultivation or reaping season save in
emergency which should be reported to the Chief Conservator of Forests.
Note. - A man giving labour between 3-10 miles from his village and doing 6 continuous days' work will be given half
day's free labour over 10 miles from his village and doing six continuous days' work will be allowed one day's free labour
for travelling there and back. The days being counted to the work.
12.
Jhumias may be admitted into the reserves on condition that they sow with their crops the seed of such forest trees an
such manner as the Divisional Forest Officer may direct; building material and ten cart-loads of fuel annually will be
given to them free of charge but they will be liable to render 20 days' labour, if called upon, at the local rate of wages.
Note. - The jhumias admitted into the reserved forests under Rule 12, will execute an agreement in the form approved
by Government.
13.
The Forest Department and its contractors shall have the first claim on the labour of forest villagers, who shall not
accept employment from any other department, company or individual without the previous sanction of the Divisional
Forest Officer.
14.
The Forest Department may resume occupation of land allotted to a forest villager by giving six months' notice to the
occupier.
15.
Separate work registers in addition to the ordinary muster rolls will be maintained for each village showing amount and
the nature of the work done by each villager. The village register, the work registers and the muster rolls will be
inspected by the Divisional Forest Officer at the time of range and beat office inspection and he will be responsible that
the labour is being property utilised.
16.
Payments for work done should be made by responsible officer at intervals which should not exceed a week except in
special circumstances with the permission of the Divisional Forest Officer.
17.
For each forest village the Divisional Forest Officer, may, with the sanction of the Chief Conservator of Forests, appoint
a gaonburah or headman and, if necessary, watchman, and their suspension, punishment and dismissal shall be vested
in the Divisional Forest Officer. The duties of such headmen or watchman will be prescribed in each case by the Chief
Conservator of Forests who may exempt any of them from paying land revenue for any area up to 7 acres land and from
rendering any labour required by Rules 9 and 11.
18.
The Divisional Forest Officer, with the previous sanction of the Chief Conservator of Forests, may make such
reasonable advances of cash or grain to any householder of a forest village, as may be necessary to enable him to
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
Rules for the Establishment and Control of Forest Villages, 1969
prepare or sow his land or purchase plough or bullocks ; all such advances will be recoverable with the interest at 6-¼%
per annum.
19.
The Divisional Forest Officer, may, with the written permission of the Chief Conservator of Forests, excuse forest
villagers who have become old or infirm, poor widows, minors incapable of work, or persons who are for the time being
wholetime employees of the Forest Department, such as elephant attendants, from rendering labour in exchange for
forest produce removed for house consumption, and will forward a list of such exempted persons annually to the Chief
Conservator of Forests.
20.
On a request supported by 50 per cent of more of the villagers the Divisional Forest Officer may, with the approval of the
Chief Conservator of Forest Officer may, with the approval of the Chief Conservator of Forest, admit persons whose
services are needed for the welfare of the forest villagers e.g., a Pastor or Priest, a school master, a shopkeeper or
barber, etc., as residents of a forest village on the following terms :
(1)
An Allotment up to one acre of land may be given to such a resident for homestead or bari but no rupit land will be
allowed to him. No concession shall be allowed in respect of land revenue for the land occupied by him but the
Divisional Forest Officer shall consult the Deputy Commissioner in each case to what would be an appropriate rate to
charge, bearing in mind not only the character of the land occupied but the use to which it is put.
(2)
The villagers and the Forest Department shall always have first claim on his services and he shall not work for persons
outside the village without the permission of the Divisional Forest Officer.
(3)
He will be exempted from rendering any labour but will ordinarily be given forest produce free for his own use only in
return for his services rendered to the villagers on wages at the rates locally current.
(4)
He shall be subject to such additional conditions as the Divisional Forest Officer may, with the approval of the Chief
Conservator of Forests, lay down in writing at the time of a dmission.
(5)
He shall be liable to be evicted summarily for the Divisional Forest Officer, without payment of compensation from the
forest village for breach of any of the above terms or for breach of any provisions of the Nagaland Forest Act, 1968 or of
the rules made thereunder in force at the time or for refusal to carry but his orders.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4