
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Land Acquisition (Bihar and Orissa) Rules, 1894
The Land Acquisition (Bihar and Orissa) Rules, 1894
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/67760157/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Odisha - Act
The Land Acquisition (Bihar and Orissa) Rules, 1894
ODISHA
India
The Land Acquisition (Bihar and Orissa) Rules, 1894
Rule THE-LAND-ACQUISITION-BIHAR-AND-ORISSA-RULES-1894 of 1894
Published on 24 April 1895
Commenced on 24 April 1895
[This is the version of this document from 24 April 1895.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Land Acquisition (Bihar and Orissa) Rules, 1894
Published vide Notification No. 29-T.R., dated 24.4.1895
For Areas transferred from Central Provinces, some rules have been reframed vide Orissa Gazette Part-III/26.7.1946.
Notification No, 29 T.-R., dated 24-4-1895. - ln exercise of the powers conferred by Section 55 of the Land Acquisition
Act 1 of 1894, and with the previous sanction of the Governor-General in Council, the Lieutenant-Governor is pleased to
make the following rules in supersession of the rules issued under Section 59 of Act X of 1870 and published under
notification, dated 4th November, 1869, at pages 898-900, Part-1 of the Calcutta Gazette of the 6th idem.
1.
When any revenue-paying land is acquired under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (I of 1894) the proprietor shall except
as provided in Rule 6, be relieved of the liability to pay revenue to the extent of Government demand upon the said land;
and such relief shall have effect in the manner hereinafter described ;
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Land Acquisition (Bihar and Orissa) Rules, 1894
(a)
in estates in which the instalments of revenue as laid down in the settlement papers are known, shall take effect from
the end of the month immediately preceding that in which possession of the land is taken; and
(b)
in estates in which the instalments of revenue are not known, it shall take effect from the latest day of payment of
arrears of revenue (as determined by the Board of Revenue, Lower Provinces, under Section 3 of Act XI of 1859)
immediately preceding the date on which possession Is taken.
2.
In such cases the Collector shall, before making an award, ascertain, in accordance with the two next following rules,
and record the amount of Government revenue which is to be taken as payable in respect of the acquired portion, and
shall, in the event of a reference being made to a Court, furnish the Court, at the time of making the reference, with
particulars of the amount of the share so ascertained and recorded.
3.
If the land to be acquired be on entire estate or tenure assessed with a specific amount of revenue, the whole of such
amount shall be remitted. Applicable also to the Ex-Madras areas of Ganjam, Koraput and Balliguda Sub-division of
Phulbani District with effect from 23rd August, 1968 [vide Revenue Department Notification No. LA-20/68
Misc-42982-R., dated 23-8-1968].
4.
If the land be not liable for a specific amount of revenue, but be a portion of an estate or tenure which is liable for a
specific amount the proportion of Government.
- revenue to be deemed payable in respect of the land taken shall be ascertained under the following rules :
First - Where an estate has, within 20 years next preceding the date of the commencement of proceedings for the
acquisition of any land-situate therein, been subjected to a detailed settlement, or has formed portion of an estate
brought under the Estates Partition Act VIII (B.C.) of 1876, made after inquiry into and record of the assets of the estate,
the Government revenue to be deemed payable in respect of the said land shall bear to the assets of the said land the
same proportion as the Government revenue of the whole estate bears to the assets of the whole estate, as shown in
the statement or partition proceedings.
Second - When there has been no such settlement or partition as aforesaid, then, if the area of the estate is known with
accuracy, the amount of Government revenue to be deemed payable in respect of the portion of the land taken shall
bear to the Government revenue of the whole estate the same proportion as the area of the said portion bears to the
area of the whole estate,
Third - When the Government revenue deemed payable in respect of the land taken cannot be determined by either of
the above rules one-fourth of the net rent (i.e., the gross rental less a deduction of 10 per cent for the expenses of
collection) of the said land shall be taken to be the amount of Government revenue thereon chargeable.
5.
In determining the amount of compensation to be awarded the Collector shall take into consideration the fact that the
land acquired is subject to the burden of the payment of Government revenue.
6.
In the event of the proprietor declining to accept an abatement of revenue, such circumstances shall not entitle him to
any compensation over and above the amount fixed for the award under Section 23 of the Act on the original basis of
calculation. In cases, however, in which the area of the portion of land acquired does not exceed one-twentieth part of
area of the estate, it shall be competent to the Revenue authorities, if the proprietor of estate so desire, to pay the
proprietor the computed value of the revenue deemed payable in respect of such portion on the condition of his
continuing to pay the revenue of the entire estate without abatement; provided that, in computing the value of the
revenue so assigned, the basts of the calculation shall not exceed the number of years' purchase (if known) upon which
the market-value of the proprietor's profits i.e., the amount of compensation to be awarded for the land, has been
determined. Thus, if the market-value of the said profits has been computed at twelve years' purchase, the capitalized
value of the revenue deemed payable in respect of the portion of land acquired shall be calculated at not more than
twelve years' purchase of the amount of revenue in question.
The concession above is, however, not admissible in the case of acquisition for the Central Government including
railways [vide Revenue Department Notification No. 928-H-19-R.R. , dated the 5th July, 1934],
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Land Acquisition (Bihar and Orissa) Rules, 1894
7.
When there is any question whether the land to be acquired is part of a revenue-paying estate, or is revenue free, the
Collector shall decide the matter before making his award, leaving it to the claimants to apply for a reference to the
Court if they object to his decision. In case of a reference be in a applied for, the Collector shall if he has decided that
the land is revenue free, determine the amount of revenue which would be payable for it in the event of its being held to
belong to the revenue-paying estate of which it is alleged to form a part.
8.
To enable him to calculate accurately the additional compensation to be given under Section 23 (2) of the Act, and to
keep up fully and clearly his registers of all lands occupied and compensation paid for them, the Collector shall
invariably record separately his finding under the first head of Section 23 (1) of the Act, which concerns the market-value
of the land.
9.
The procedure laid down as to the payment of the compensation money in cases of references under Section 18 shall
apply also under Section 30 or Section 35. The Compensation money, or, if any of the parties are willing to accept
payment of their shares and payment to them is admissible, the portion of it which is in dispute and cannot be paid away
shall be deposited in Court when the reference is made.
10.
In giving notice of the award under Section 12 (2) and tendering payment under Section 31 (1), to such of the persons
interested as were not present personally or by their representatives when the award was made, the officer shall require
them to appear personally or by representatives by a certain date to receive payment of the compensation awarded to
them, intimating also that no interest will be allowed, to them if they all to appear. If they do not appear, and do not apply
for reference to the Civil Court under Section 18, the officer shall after any further endeavour to secure their attendance
that may seem desirable, cease the amounts due to be paid into the Treasury as Revenue deposits payable to the
persons to whom they are respectively due and vouched for in the accompanying form (marked E). The officer shall also
give notice to the payees of such deposits, the Treasury in which the deposits specifying have been made. When the
payees ultimately claim payment of sums placed in deposit, the amounts will be paid to them in the same manner as
ordinary revenue deposits. The officer should, as far as possible, arrange to make the payments due in or near the
village to which the payees belong, in order that the number of undisbursed sums to be placed in deposit on account of
non-attendance may be reduced to aluminium. Whenever payment is claimed through a representative whether before
or after deposit of the amount awarded, such, representative must show legal authority for receiving the compensation
on behalf of his principal.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3