
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/175480631/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Odisha - Act
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
ODISHA
India
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Rule THE-ORISSA-SERVICES-MEDICAL-ATTENDANCE-RULES-1947 of 1947
Published on 15 April 1947
Commenced on 15 April 1947
[This is the version of this document from 15 April 1947.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Published vide Notification No. 1879-LSG/dated 15.4.1947
No. 1879 - L.S.G. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Clause (b) of Subsection (2) of Section 241 of the
Government of India Act 1935 and in supersession of all existing rules on the subject the Governor of Orissa is pleased
to make the following rules, namely :
Rules Governing Medical Attendance On Government Servants, Orissa
1.
(1)
These rules may be called the Orissa Service (Medical Attendance) Rules.
(2)
They shall apply to Government servants and the members of their families as hereinafter defined under the rule -
Page 1/105
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
making control of the Government of Orissa, whether they are on duty, temporary or permanent or on leave or on
foreign service.
(Health Department Memo No. 19772 (19) - H., dated 22.11. 1962)
2.
In these rules unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context -
(a)
"authorised medical attendance" means -
(i)
in respect of a Government servant, whose monthly salary is not less than Rs. 500 whether this appointment is Gazetted
or not, the Chief District Medical Officer of the District or Medical Officer of the equivalent rank;
(ii)
in respect of Government servant whose monthly salary is less than Rs, 500 an Assistant Surgeon of the district
including L.I.M. Doctor;
(G.O. No. 13913 (19) - H., dated 17.8.1962)
(iii)
in respect of Government servants and the members of their families outside the State and authorised medical attendant
will be the registered medical practitioner, whether in Government service or private who will be available near at hand,
at the place where he falls ill;
(Government Memo No. 103761 - H., dated 10.6.1961 and No. 20504 - H., dated 1.12.1962)
(iv)
in respect of Government servants in respects of their scales of pay, the Assistant Dental Surgeon or Dental Surgeon
(whole time or part - time) in employment under the State Government (for Dental cases only);
(G.O. No. 27501 (22) - H., dated 16.12.1969)
(b)
"district" means the district in which the Government servant falls ill;
(c)
"the Government" means the Provincial Government;
(d)
"Government hospital" includes hospital or dispensary maintained by the Provincial Government, a hospital or
dispensary maintained by a local body and other hospital or dispensary with which arrangements have been made by
the Government for the treatment of Government servants;
(e)
"medical attendance" means the professional advice and care during sickness, convalescence or injury afforded by the
authorised medical, attendant at the entitled Government servant's residence or in the hospital, including such
Pathological, Bacteriological, Radiological or other methods of examination for the purpose of diagnosis are available in
any Government hospital or dispensary and are considered necessary by the authorised medical attendant and such
surgical treatment as can be suitably given at the entitled Government servant's residence and such consultation with a
specialist or other Medical Officer serving under Government and stationed in the Province as the authorised medical
attendant certifies to be necessary, to Medical Officer, may, in consultation with the authorised medical attendant
determine;
(f)
"patient" means a Government servant or a member of his family to whom these rules apply and who has fallen ill;
(i)
"family" means a Government servant's wife or husband, as the case may be, and parents, children, and step - children
wholly dependent upon the Government servant;
(G.O. No. 19772/H., dated the 22nd November, 1962)
(g)
"province" means the province of Orissa;
(h)
"treatment" means the use of all medical and surgical facilities available at the hospital or dispensary at which a
Government servant is treated and includes -
Page 2/105
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
(i)
the employment of such Pathological, Bacteriological, Radiological or other methods as are considered necessary by
the authorised medical attendant;
(ii)
the supply of such medicines, vaccines, sera or other therapeutic substances as are ordinarily available in the hospitals;
(iii)
such accommodation as is ordinarily provided in the hospital and is suited to his status;
(iv)
such nursing as is ordinarily provided to in - patients by the hospital; and
(v)
the specialist consultation described in Clause (e);
(vi)
the testing of eye - sight for glasses at a Government recognised hospital once in every 3 years on. the recommendation
of the authorised medical attendant. Fees paid to the Specialist for such services will be reimbursed to Government
servants according to the rules laid down in Government Resolution No. 13709 - H., dated the 17th August, 1960. This
concession does not include provision of spectacles at Government expense. The members of the families of
Government servants are not entitled to this concession. A Government servant desirous of availing this facility should
produce a certificate from the controlling authority empowered to countersign the medical claim bill that he has not
availed of the concession within the last three years;
(vii)
the Dental treatment even when it is had at a Government hospital under the advice of the authorised medical attendant
is not covered by these rules but if the diagnosis of the Physiological or other disability from which a Government
servant is suffering indicates that teeth are the real source of the disturbance he is entitled to free Dental treatment
provided it is of a major kind such as, treatment of jaw bone diseases, wholesale removal of teeth, etc. It does not
include scaling of teeth or the free supply of artificial denture, or treatment from a private Dentist, or outside the hospital,
even on the advice of the authorised medical attendant.
N.B. - Surgical operations needed for removal of odontemes and impacted wisdom tooth also fall under the category of
Dental treatment of a major kind. Treatment of gum boil comes under oral surgery (Surgery of mouth) and as such, it is
admissible under the rules. Treatment of pyorrhoea and gingivits of teeth is also admissible).
(G.O. No. 21620 - H., dated the 19th December, 1961)
3.
A Government servant or a member of his family shall be entitled, free of charge, to medical attendance by the
authorised medical attendant.
Note - (1) Officers in superior service or the member of their families are entitled to free medical attendance including
such surgical treatment as can be suitably given at their own residence unless distance renders this impracticable
officers in inferior service or the members of their families can claim free medical attendance and medicines at the local
general hospital or dispensary only.
(2)
In case of emergency or great danger or difficulty the attendance of the Civil Surgeon shall be given to person not
ordinarily entitled to it when applied for by the subordinate medical attendant.
(3)
An officer of the class specified in Sub - clause (i) of Clause (a) of Rule 2 stationed in subdivision should ordinarily
consult the Sub - divisional Medical Officer for his ailments but when he is seriously ill - he may call in the Civil Surgeon.
This privilege shall always be abused. Before the Civil Surgeon is called in the local Medical Officer shall be consulted
on the desirability of such a course.
(4)
Medical Officers in charge of dispensaries maintained or aided by local bodies shall attend free of charge on
Government servants on duty or on leave residing in the town or village in which the dispensary is situated.
(G.O. No. 12803 - H., dated the 10th July, 1965)
(5)
On the grounds of humanity and irrespective of strict right to his services, every Medical Officer shall attend without
Page 3/105
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
delay to a sick call in any case of emergency and after having given such aid or advice as the circumstances demand
may transfer the further treatment of the case to the proper medical attendant.
(6)
A Government servant on foreign service is entitled to the services of a Government Medical Officer of the rank
mentioned in Rule 2 above only when the foreign employer has provided no medical attendant or when the latter
considers it necessary to consult Government medical attendant.
(7)
Every person employed under the Court of Wards; who is appointed by Government but is paid from the funds of the
Wards Estates, shall be entitled to receive free medical attendance and medicines in those cases only in which the
service counts for pension under Civil Service Regulations. Road Cess Officers are also entitled to gratuitous medical
attendance and medicines.
4.
The Ministers and Deputy Ministers appointed under the Constitution of India, their Parliamentary Secretaries, the
Advocate General and Government Advocate during their employment as such and the members of the families of the
Ministers and Deputy Ministers, are entitled to free medical attendance including surgical treatment as can be suitably
given at their own residence unless it is considered that treatment in the nearest hospital or dispensary will be to the
interest of the patient. An advocate or a pleader appointed by Government casually in not entitled to free medical
attendance nor to free supply of medicines.
(G.O. No. 13520 - H., dated 24.7.1965)
5.
(1)
When the place at which the patient falls ill is not the headquarters of the authorised medical attendant -
(a)
the patient shall be entitled to travelling allowance for the journey to and from such headquarters, or
(b)
if the patient is too ill to travel, the authorised medical attendant shall be entitled to travelling allowance for the journey to
and from the place where the patient is.
(2)
Application for travelling allowance under Sub - rule (1) shall be accompanied by a certificate in writing by the authorised
medical attendant stating that medical attendance was necessary and, if the application is under Clause (b) of that sub -
rule, that patient was too ill to travel.
6.
(1)
If the authorised medical attendant is of opinion that the case of a patient is of such a serious or special nature as to
require medical attendance by some person other than himself, or that the patient requires anti - rabic treatment he may
with the approval of the Director of Health Services and Inspector - General of Prisons (which shall be obtained
beforehand unless the delay involved entails danger to the health of the patient) -
(a)
send the patient to the nearest specialist or other Medical Officer, as provided in Clause (b) of Rule 2 by whom, in his
opinion, medical attendance is required for the patient, or in the case of anti - rabic treatment, to the nearest place in the
province where such treatment is available, or
(b)
if the patient is too ill to travel, summon such specialist or other Medical Officer to attend upon the patient,
(c)
if the authorised medical attendant is of the opinion that it would be unsafe for the patient to make the journey to the
specialist unattended, the Medical Officer may either himself accompany the patient to the destination or arrange that
some other person should do this. In that case the attendant, if a Government servant, shall be deemed to have been
travelling on duty and may draw travelling allowance for the outward and return journey, if not a Government servant,
shall be entitled to actual travelling expenses. T.A., in such cases, should not exceed the limit prescribed in Rules 130
and 131 of the O.T.A. Rules.
(G.O. No. 15792 - H., dated 8.9.1961)
Page 4/105
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
(2)
A patient sent under Clause (a) and (c) of Sub - rule (1) shall, on production of a certificate in writing by the authorised
medical attendant, in this behalf, be entitled to travelling allowance for the journey to the headquarters of the specialist
or other Medical Officer or to the place where he is sent for anti - rabic treatment. The provision of Rule 6 above, will
apply to the family members of the Government servant also.
(G.O. No. 15792 - H., dated 8.9.1961)
(3)
A specialist or other Medical Officer summoned under Clause (b) of Sub - rule (1) shall on production of a certificate in
writing by the authorised medical .attendant in this behalf be entitled to travelling allowance for the journey to and from
the place where the patient is.
(4)
When a Government servant or a member of his family is carried in an ambulance from his/her residence to the hospital
or from one hospital to another hospital, the ambulance charges paid at the prescribed rate are reimbursible to the
concerned Government servant on production of certificate from the Superintendent of the hospital to which the
ambulance is attached, that journey in ambulance car was essential.
The ambulance charges should not be reimbursed if the ambulance does not belong to Government or a local fund or
any recognised hospital.
7.
(1)
A Government servant or a member of his family shall be entitled free of charges -
(i)
to treatment in such hospital at or near the place where he falls ill as can, in the opinion of the authorised medical
attendant, provide the necessary and suitable treatment;
(ii)
to anti-rabic treatment at the nearest Government hospital in the province providing treatment.
(2)
Where a Government servant or a member of his family is entitled under Sub - rule (1) free of charge, to treatment or
anti - rabic treatment in a hospital any amount paid by him on account of such treatment shall, on production of a
certificate in writing by the authorised medical attendant in this behalf, be reimbursed to him by the Provincial
Government -
(i)
the sales tax paid on account of the purchase of the medicines by the Government servants shall on production of a
certificate in writing by the authorised medical attendant In this behalf, be reimbursed to him by the State Government;
(G.O. No. 2672 (19) - H., dated 18.2.1961)
(ii)
reimbursement of expenses on medical treatment incurred outside the State on production of a certificate in writing from
the authorised medical attendant on this behalf and necessary vouchers;
Note - Reimbursement of the actual expenses includes the entire cost of medical treatment such as consultation fees of
the doctor, charges for pathological, X'Ray examination, etc. Hospital charges if admitted, ambulance charges, special
nursing charges etc.
(G.O. No. 20504 - H., dated 1.12.1962)
(G.O. No. 10280 (19) - H,. dated 13.6.1961)
(iii)
blood transfusion charges paid to a Government institution or any other local organisation recognised by Government for
the supply of blood to patients and the cost thereof is reimbursible to Government servants. Where such institutions or
organisation do not exist or blood of the type required for a Government servant is not available with them, there should
be no objection to the purchase of blood plasma from a chemist or to obtaining blood from a private donor and the cost
thereof, will also be reimbursed to Government servants on production of a certificate from the authorised medical
attendant to the effect that the supply of blood required was not available from a local Government institution or a
recognised organisation and that the price paid for the blood was reasonable.
(G.O.No. 21506 (19) - H., dated 18.12.1961)
Page 5/105
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
8.
(1)
If the authorised medical attendant is of opinion that owing to the absence or remoteness of a suitable hospital or the
severity of the illness, a Government servant cannot be given treatment as provided in Clause (i) of Sub - rule (1) of
Rule 6, the Government servant or a member of his family may receive treatment at his residence.
(2)
A Government servant or a member of his family receiving treatment at his residence under Sub - rule (1) shall be
entitled to receive towards the cost of such treatment incurred by him a sum equivalent to the cost of such treatment as
he would have been entitled, free of charge, to receive under these rules if he had not been treated at his residence.
(G.O. No. 12803 (22) - H., dated 10.7.1965)
(3)
Claims as such admissible under Sub - rule (2) shall be accompanied by a certificate in writing by the authorised
medical attendant, stating -
(a)
his reasons for the opinion referred to in Sub - rule (1);
(b)
the cost of similar treatment referred to in Sub - rule (2);
9.
(1)
Charges for services rendered in connection with, but not included in medical attendance on, or treatment of, a patient
entitled free of charge, to medical attendance or treatment, under these rules, shall be determined by the authorised
medical attendant and paid by the patient.
(2)
If any question arises as to whether any service is included in medical attendance or treatment, it shall be referred to the
Government and the decision of the Government shall be final.
10.
The Controlling Officer of a patient may require that any certificate required by these rules to be given by the authorised
medical attendant for Travelling Allowance purpose shall be countersigned -
(a)
in the case of a certificate given by the Civil Surgeon of a district, by the Director or Health and Inspector - General of
Prisons, and
(b)
in the case of a Certificate given by any other Medical Officer, by the Civil Surgeon of the district.
11.
All Government servants who received injuries in connection with civil disturbances, or on leave, would, in addition to the
items included in Clause (h) of Rule 2 be entitled also to the following supplies and services as part of the treatment to
which they are entitled free of charge -
(a)
the supply of such medicines, vaccines, sera or other therapeutic substances not ordinarily available in the hospital in
which the Government servant or a member of his family is treated as the authorised medical attendant may certify in
writing to be essential for the recovery or for the prevention of serious deterioration in the condition of the Government
servant;
(b)
such special nursing as the authorised medical attendant may certify in writing to be essential for the recovery or for the
prevention of serious deterioration in the condition of the Government servant or member of his family.
Inferior Government servants receiving injuries in civil disturbances will receive free medical treatment in the general
wards of hospitals. While being so treated in the event of their having to incur additional expense for the purchase of
medicines, vaccines, sera or other therapeutic substances prescribed by the hospital authorities and which are not
supplied free by the hospital, they will be allowed refund of the cost of such items.
Note - It should be assumed, unless the facts of a case give clear indication to the contrary that the Government servant
on leave was attached and injured because of his being a Government servant, on leave was attached and injured
Page 6/105
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
because of his being a Government servant.
12.
If a Government servant or a member of his family calls in a Medical Officer other than the appointed Medical Officer it
will be considered a private arrangement and the former may claim the usual fees.
(G.O. No. 12803 - H,. dated 10.7.1965)
13.
Subject to the following exceptions, every Medical Officer is entitled to remuneration for professional attendance on the
families of those public servants whom they are required to attend gratuitously.
Exception - (1) Families of the following classes of officers belonging to the Military Department :
(a)
Military Officers (but not those in Civil Employment).
(b)
Officers of the Royal Indian Marine Department.
(c)
Cantonment Magistrates.
(d)
Cantonment Chaplains.
(e)
Warrant Officers those of the Royal Indian Marine.
(f)
Army School Masters and School Mistress.
(g)
Non - commissioned officers and men in military employ other than purely regimental.
(h)
Non - Gazetted Officers and subordinate of the Indian Ordinance Department.
(i)
Civilian staff of army headquarters and those of Army Divisional Brigade or Station Staff Officers.
(j)
European pensioners of the Indian Military Service including retired Departmental Officers with honorary rank and
Warrant Officers, if not employed by, or in receipt of a pension or gratuity from the Civil Department.
(k)
Government servants employed in the Agency tracts of Ganjam and Koraput districts.
(2)
Inspectors and sergeants of the Armed Police and Chaplains in Civil Station.
Note - Family includes the wife and children including parents, sisters and minor brothers of a Government servant
residing with, wholly dependent upon him.
14.
The following persons are also entitled to free medical attendance at the expense of the Government of India who would
reimburse the Provincial Government the cost of such medical treatment :
(1)
Chaplains;
(2)
Military personnel;
(3)
All officers and employees of the Government of India;
15.
Every patient attending at a charitable hospital or dispensary is entitled to receive advice and medicines free of charge.
(G.O. No; 12803 (22) - H., dated 10.7.1965)
Concessions Regarding Treatment of State Government Servants and Their Families Outside the State
1. Subject - Medical concession to Government servants and members of their families suffering from Poliomyelites,
Cerebral Palsy and such other diseases for which there is no facility for treatment with in the State.
Page 7/105
----- PAGE 8 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Government of Orissa have for some time past their consideration the question of extending the concession of the
medical attendance and treatment so as to enable the State Government servants and their families to receive treatment
at Government expense at suitable hospital outside the State but within India for diseases like Poliomyelitis, Cerebral
Palsy and such other diseases for which there is no facility to treatment within the State. After careful consideration it
has been decided that a State Government servant or a member of his family when advised by his/her authorised
medical attendant not below the rank of Professors concerned with the Medical Colleges of the State may receive
treatment for poliomyelitis, Cerebral Palsy and such other diseases for which there is no facility for treatment within the
State at a hospital or institution situated in any other State of the Indian Union where such treatment is available, subject
to the following conditions
1. If the authorised medical attendant is of the opinion that the case of patient is of such a serious or special nature as to
require medical attendance and treatment in a particular hospital or institution situated in any other State of the Union,
he may, with the approval of the Director of Medical Education and Training, Orissa or where he is of opinion that delay
involved in obtaining approval of the Medical Education and Training, Orissa would entail danger on the health of the
patient, himself, may advise the patient to go to the place of treatment outside the State in anticipation of approval and
shall furnish a certificate to that effect while moving the Director of Medical Education and Training, Orissa, for expost
facto approval of the said advice.
(a)
Advise the patient to go for investigation and treatment to the particular hospital or institution with a certificate in writing
in the following manner :
Certified that Shri/Shrimati...................aged......years......(herein to mention the designation, pay and Department of the
concerned Government servants) suffering from is advised to go to..................Hospital/Institution in.........State for further
investigation and treatment as proper facilities for his/her treatment are not available within the State.
(b)
If the authorised medical attendant is of opinion that it is unsafe for the patient to travel unattended to, he may certify in
writing that the patient should travel to the place of treatment being accompanied by an attendant.
(c)
In the case of a patient who is a child below the age of 10 years, an attendant may accompany him/her to the place of
treatment requiring any certificate from the Authorised medical attendant.
(d)
In case of a child below 10 years, if the mother of the child is absolutely considered necessary to accompany and
second attendant is necessary both the mother and the child. The concerned Professor may specifically mention this in
a form of a recommendation and send attendant allowed in exceptional circumstances on the approval of the D.M.E.T.,
Orissa.
2. The concessions referred to above will also be available to those patients who are to undergo post treatment check
up at the institution outside the State.
3. Patients suffering from Poliomyelitis should be referred to one of the following institutions outside the State when
considered necessary by the authorised medical attendant.
(i)
Government General Hospital, Madras
(ii)
Government Stanlex Hospital, Madras
(iii)
Chitaranjan Seva Sadan, Calcutta
(iv)
Presidency General Hospital, Calcutta
(v)
N. R. Sarcar Medical College Hospital, Calcutta
(vi)
R. G. Kar Medical College Hospital, Calcutta
(vii)
Medical College Hospital, Calcutta
Page 8/105
----- PAGE 9 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
(viii)
Medical College Hospital, Nagpur
(ix)
Medical College Hospital, Patna
(x)
Medical College Hospital, Darbhanga
(xi)
All India Institute of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Bombay.
For the purpose of advanced cases of Poliomyelitis requiring specialised treatment, a patient may be advised for
admission into the Children's Orthopaedic Hospital, Bombay after he/she has received treatment in any of the above
Hospital, in the first instance and if the Medical Superintendent of that Hospital recommends that specialised treatment
at the Children's Orthopaedic Hospital, Bombay is necessary.
4. A Government servant on his behalf or on behalf of a member of his family is entitled to claim financial assistance
from Government as under for treatment in the institution outside the State.
(a)
T.A. for the outward and return journey.
(i)
Actual conveyance charge from the headquarters of the place from which the patient (Government servant) actually
travels to the hospital for treatment and back whichever is nearer or mileage allowance at the rates admissible to his/her
grade as on tour under the rules in force whichever is less. He will be entitled to daily allowance at a rate admissible to
his grade for the period of halt at the institution.
For the members of the family of a Government Servant -
(ii)
journey by rail actual railway fare of the class by which the Government servant is entitled to travel on tour under the
rules in force or of a lower class in which the patient actually travels;
(iii)
journey by road - actual fare paid for the journey by bus/other public conveyance.
Note - For hired car, the cost will be reimbursed in production of the voucher.
(iv)
When the family members of Government servant's own conveyance the Government servant should not be paid for the
family members (patient) other than usual T.A. admissible to the Government servant himself.
Note - If the condition of the patient requires costlier transport, the actual fare paid shall be reimbursible, The use of
such a conveyance by the patient or a member of his family in these circumstances shall be supported by a certificate
from the A.M.A. to the effect that the conditions of the patient actually required costlier transport and only then the
charges shall be admissible for reimbursement. Fare for journey by air or by air conditioned coaches in train will not
however, be admissible for reimbursement.
(b)
T.A. for the attendant/escort -
(i)
An attendant/escort shall be entitled to T.A. both ways at the rates admissible under these orders to a member of the
family of the Government servant concerned provided it is certified in writing by the concerned A.M.A. that it is unsafe for
the patient to travel unattended and that an attendant/escort is essential to accompany him to the place of treatment.
T.A. will also be admissible if it becomes necessary for an attendant/ escort to travel again to fetch the patient on
production of the necessary certificate from the Medical Authorities of the hospital where the patient is undergoing
treatment. The attendant if a Government servant shall be allowed T.A. for his to and fro journey as admissible to his
grade.
(ii)
The second attendant when allowed under para - 1 (c) to accompany both the mother and child shall be entitled to T.A.
both ways journey as admissible to the Government servants concerned. The attendant, if a Government servant shall
be allowed T.A. for his to and fro journey as admissible to his grade. The first attendant (mother) shall only be entitled to
daily allowance as admissible to the Government servant on production of certificate to the effect that the attendant
Page 9/105
----- PAGE 10 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
(mother) is necessary to attend the patient during the period of treatment from to....from the treating physician of the
institution.
(c)
Points of commencement and termination of journey -
The journey for the purpose of these orders should be deemed to have commenced from the place from which the
patient actually travels to the place of treatment and the return journey should be deemed to have ended at the place to
which the patient actually travels of the headquarters of the Government servant concerned whichever is nearer.
(d)
The facility of travel by air and air - conditioned accommodation at the Government expenses is not admissible for the
journeys performed for receiving medical attendance and treatment.
(5)
(i)
Reimbursement of the charges paid at the institution excludes dietary charges. Dietary charges may be claimed by
Government servants whose pay is Rs. 100 per month or less receipt of the amount paid at the institution should be
produced while claiming reimbursement.
(ii)
The cost of medicines purchased outside the State during the period of treatment in an outside institution subject to the
production of certificate from the Superintendent or the Medical Officer in - charge of the institution of the Department,
Head of the Institution in which the patient is treated, that the medicines were prescribed for and purchased from outside
by the patient and those medicines were essential for the treatment and speedy recovery of the patient, shall be
reimbursed irrespective of the fact whether these medicines find place in the list of admissible or inadmissible
medicines. Such medicines should not include tonics and food items.
6. This order will take effect from the date of issue.
7. This order supersedes the Health Department Resolution No. 10640 - H., dated the 15th May, 1964.
(Health & Family Welfare Department Resolution)
No. 2444 - J - t., dated 30.1.1970 and amending Resolutions
No. 28799 - H., dated 26.1.1970, No. 35699 - H., dated 3.12.1975
No. 17665 - H., dated 25.5.1976 and No. 21489 - H., dated 8.6.1979.
2. Subject - Fixation of limit of consulting fees of the authorised medical attendant for treatment outside the State.
The undersigned is directed to say that according to Health Department G.O. No. 13083 - (19) - H., dated 10.6.1961 the
consulting fees of the authorised attendant outside the State where the Government servant and their families fall ill
admissible for reimbursement. No limit of such fees has been prescribed the above G.O. This matter was under
consideration of the Government for sometime past.
2. After careful consideration the Governor of Orissa has been pleased to decide that the consulting fees of authorised
medical attendant should be restricted to what is admissible to the Medical Officers of the concerned State where the
consultation takes place.
3. This issues with the concurrence of Finance Department vide their (UOR No. 1380 CSII. dated 23.6.1977).
4. This order will take effect for the date of issue (letter No. IVMED IIM - 46/77 - 21171 (22) - H., dated 1.7.1977).
3. Subject - Reimbursement of cost or pathological examination done outside the State when such facilities are not
available within the State.
The Government have had, for sometime past, under their consideration the question of reimbursement of the cost of
pathological examination undergone by the State Government servants and their families outside the State but within
India when such facilities are not available in Government Hospital and Medical College Hospitals of the State. After
careful consideration it has been decide that the cost of pathological examination in such cases should be reimbursible
when the concerned Government servant or a member of his family is advised by his/her authorised medical attendant
for examination, etc. outside the State but within the Indian Union, subject to the following conditions :
1. if the authorised medical attendant is of the opinion that the disease . of a patient is serious or of special nature
necessitating pathological examination etc. in a particular hospital or institution situated outside the State he must obtain
the approval of the Superintendent of Medical College Hospital of the State before advising the patient to go in for such
pathological examination.
(a)
Page 10/105
----- PAGE 11 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
The advice for the pathological examination to a particular hospital or institution outside the State should be
accompanied with a certificate in the following form :
Certified that Shri/Shrimati/Kumari...............aged.....years wife/husband/son/daughter/mother/father/ suffering
from...........is advised to go to..........Hospital/Institution in State for examination as proper facilities for examination are
not available within the State.
Signature of the Superintendent of.........Signature of the Authorised College/Hospital, Designation (Seal) Medical
Attendant, Designation (Seal).
2. Government servant, on his behalf or on behalf of a member of his family is entitled to claim financial assistance from
Government for pathological examination in the institution out side the State as per paragraph - 4 of the Health and
Family Welfare Department Resolution No. 2444 - H., dated 30.1.1970 read with Resolution No. 35699 - H., dated
3.12.1975.
3. This order will take effect from the date of issue
(Resolution No. IV Med - III, M - 44/77 - 32997 - H., dated 3.10.1977).
Concessions Regarding Treatment of State Government Servants and their Families Suffering From T.B.
1. Subject - Liberalisation of medical concession to Government servants and the members of their families suffering
from Tuberculosis.
Government of Orissa have, for sometime past under their consideration the question of extending the concessions of
the Medical Attendance and treatment so as to enable the State Government servants and the members of their families
to receive treatment at Government expenses who are suffering from T.B. or suspected to be suffering from T.B. at a
recognised Sanatorium/ Hospital within the State or outside the State but within India. After careful consideration it has
been decided that in supersession of Resolution No.2146 - L.S.G., dated the 16th June, 1945 and Resolution No. 3482
L.S.G. dated the 16th May, 1946 a State Government servant or a member of his family when advised by his/her
authorised medical attendant or by the T.B. Specialist attached to the Hospital/Medical College (Hospital which is near
at hand) should be granted the following concession for treatment of T.B. at Government expenses at a
Sanatorium/Hospital where such facilities are available.
2. (a) Reimbursement of the Sanatorium/Hospital charges (which should include charges for accommodation, ordinary
diet, medicines, etc.) at the rate actually paid by the patient. Receipt of the amount from the treating Physician, paid at
the Sanatorium/Hospital should be produced while granting reimbursement.
(b)
Special dietary expenditure not exceeding - Rs. 60 per month (at Rs. 9 per day), during the period of treatment in a T.B.
Sanatorium/Hospital towards the cost of special diet if any. The diet allowance shall be sanctioned for a period of two
years in 4 instalments on the recommendation of the Medical Officer in charge of the patient. No further
recommendation from the Medical Officer is necessary for payment of second and subsequent instalment of the diet
allowance. While sanctioning the amount, the concerned Government servant may be asked to produced evidence
before the sanctioning authority that the patient is still continuing treatment for T.B.
(c)
Any special medicines prescribed by the medical attendant if not available in the Hospital stock, will be purchased by the
patient and the cost thereof will be reimbursed irrespective of the fact whether the medicines find place in the lists of
inadmissible or admissible medicines.
(d)
If the authorised Medical Officer of T.B. Sanatorium/Hospital or the T.B. Specialist is of the opinion that it is unsafe for
the patient to travel unattended, he may certify in writing that the patient should travel to the place of treatment being
accompanied by an attendant/escort.
(e)
If the Medical Superintendent of T.B. Sanatorium or Hospital/Assistant Professor or any Medical Officer of higher rank of
the department of T.B. and chest diseases of the Medical College where the patient is undergoing treatment, is of
opinion that the condition of the patient is so serious that he requires treatment in some other Sanatorium/Hospital in
other States within India he can advise the patient to go to such Sanatorium/Hospital.
(f)
If the Medical Superintendent of the T.B. Sanatorium/Hospital as referred to above is of the opinion that it is unsafe for
the patient to travel unattended, he may certify that the patient should travel to the place of treatment being
Page 11/105
----- PAGE 12 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
accompanied by an attendant.
Note - In such cases i.e. (d) (e) and (f) the previous approval of Director of Health and Family Planning Services, Orissa
should be obtained,
3. The following concessions will be available to those patients during the period of their pre and post
Sanatorium/Hospital treatment.
(a)
Any special medicines prescribed by the Medical Attendant if not available in the Hospital stock, will be purchased by
the patient and the cost thereof will be reimbursed irrespective of the fact whether the medicines find place in the list is
admissible or not (inadmissible medicines).
(b)
If any consultation fee is charged by the consulting Physicians concerned for X - ray check up during the above period of
treatment, the same should be reimbursed on production of the receipt of such vouchers for such examination.
(c)
An allowance of Rs. 60/ - per month (at Rs. 2/ - per day) during the above period of treatment towards the cost of special
diet, if any. The diet allowance shall be sanctioned for a period of two years in 4 instalments on the recommendation of
the Medical Officer in charge of the patient. No further recommendation from the Medical Officer is necessary for
payment of second and subsequent instalments of the diet allowance. While sanctioning the amount, the concerned
Government servant may be asked to produce evidence before the sanctioning authority that the patient is still
continuing treatment for T.B.
Grant of such financial assistance to the Government servants and their family members suffering from T.B. in respect
of reimbursement of the cost of special diet should in no cases, exceed the period of two years.
Note - The cost of medicines do not include the cost of Tonic, Food items and beverages.
4. (i) A Government servant, on his behalf or on behalf of a member of his family is entitled to claim financial assistance
in shape of T.A. from the State Government for treatment of T.B. in the Sanatorium/Hospital as indicated below :
(ii)
Journey by Rail -
(a)
For the Government servants - Fare of the entitled class or the lower class by which they actually travel plus incidental
charges as for the journey on tour under the rule in force.
(b)
For the members of their families - Single fare of the class by which the Government servant is entitled to travel on tour
without daily allowance under the rules in force or of the lower class by which the patient actually travels.
Note - The facility of travel by air and air - conditioned accommodation at Government expenses is not admissible for
journey performed for receiving medical attendance and treatment.
(iii)
Journey by Road -
(a)
For the Government servants - For the road portion of the journey, or for journey between stations connected by road
only road mileage as on tour admissible under the rules in force without any daily allowances.
(b)
For the members of their families - Actual rate paid for the journey by bus or other public conveyance.
(iv)
Journey by other means of conveyance -
If the patient travels by means of conveyance those specified in those orders by his/her private conveyance. T.A. would
be admissible to the extent otherwise admissible under these rules.
(a)
For Government servants - Actual conveyance charges limited to mileage allowance at tour rates under the rules in
force plus daily allowance.
(b)
For the members of their families - Actual conveyance charges limited to half the mileage allowance at tour rates without
daily allowance admissible to Government servants themselves under the rules in force.
Page 12/105
----- PAGE 13 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Note - The use of such a conveyance by the patient or a member of his family in these circumstances shall be supported
by a certificate from the A.M.A. to the effect that the condition of the patient actually requires the transport used and then
the charges shall be admissible for reimbursement.
(v)
T.A. for an attendant/escort -
An attendant/escort shall be entitled to T.A. both ways at the rates admissible under these orders to a member of the
family of the Government servant concerned provided it is certified in writing by the concerned medical authorised that it
is unsafe for the patient to travel unattended and that an attendant/escort is essential to accompany him to the place of
treatment. T.A. will also be admissible if it becomes necessary for an attendant/escort to travel again to fetch the patient
on production of the necessary certificate from the Medical Superintendent of the T.B. Sanatorium/Hospital where the
patient is undergoing treatment. The attendant, if a Government servant shall be allowed T.A. as per journey on tour in
the similar circumstances referred to above.
(iv)
Points of commencement and termination of journey -
The journey for the purpose of these orders should be deemed to have commenced from the place from which the
patient actually travels to the place of treatment and the return journey should be deemed to have ended at the place to
which the patient actually travels or at the headquarters of the Government servant concerned, whichever is nearer.
5. This order will take effect from the date of issue and will also regulate the pending claims of the patients, who are
under treatment on the date of this resolution.
The Accountant - General, Orissa is being informed.
Health Department Resolution No. 24677/H., dated 4.8.1977
Health Department Resolution No. 28319/H., dated 10.12.1973
Health Department Resolution No. 21453/H., dated 29.7.1975
2. Subject - Sanction of dietary allowance for treatment of T.B. clarification thereof.
REF - Their letter No. 6719/Vig., dated 28.10.1980
The undersigned is directed to say that the special dietary allowance made under the provision of paras 2(b) and 3(d) of
Health Department Resolution No. 27424 - H., dated 7.11.1970 and No. 24677 - H., dated 4.8.1977 is treated as the
supplement to the cost of medicine for the speedy recovery of the patient in case of T.B. only rather than to provide
amenities to the patient and this type of allowance is not allowed in any other diseases. In vrew of this the special dietary
allowance should be met from the sub - head "Reimbursement of cost of medicines" and not from any other sub - head.
(Health Department G.O. No. 1624 - H., dated 23.1.1981)
Subject - Liberalisation of medical concession to Government servants and the members of their families suffering from
Tuberculosis.
REF - Health and F.W. Department Resolution No. 27424 - H., dated 7th November, 1970 and No. 24677/H,. dated the
4th August, 1977.
As per Health and F.W. Department Resolution referred above the special dietary allowance @ Rs. 2 per day is
admissible to Government servants for period of two years on the recommendation of the Medical Officer in charge of
the patient Government servant (or member of his family) who is undergoing treatment as an indoor/outdoor patient in a
T.B. Hospital/ Sanatorium.
2. Sometimes it so happens that a patient (Government servant or member of his family) while undergoing treatment in
a Hospital for a particular disease and during the course of investigation the patient is detected to be suffering from T.B.
also, the treating Physician recommends for diet allowance for speedy recovery of the patient. The question of accepting
such certificate for sanction of diet allowance was under consideration of Government.
3. After careful consideration Government of Orissa have decided to accept the Medical certificate recommending fqr
special dietary allowance by any Medical Officer of the Hospital/Dispensary when such certificate is countersigned by
the District T.B. Officer of the District/Superintendent, T.B. Demonstration and Training Centre, Cuttack (District
jurisdiction) Medical Superintendent of a T.B. Hospital of the State.
4. This order will take effect from the date of issue.
(Resolution No. IV-Med-III - 16/75( Part ) - 8698 - .H, dated 14th March, 1978)
Special Arrangements for Medical Attendance and Treatment of State Government Servants and their Families in the
Hospital/dispensary other than State Government Hospital/Dispensaries
Page 13/105
----- PAGE 14 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
1. Subject Recognition of the Artificial Limb Manufacturing Corporation of India at Olatpur, Cuttack as Authorised
Medical Institution for treatment of Government servants and their families.
The undersigned is directed to say that Government servants and their family members in the past were obliged to go
outside the State for artificial limbs and for orthopaedic appliances since this facility was not available in the State, and
the cost thereof was being reimbursed as per Orissa State Medical Attendance Rules, 1947. Now an Artificial Limb
Manufacturing Corporation has started functioning at Olatpur in the district of Cuttack. It provides artificial limbs to the
disabled and orthcpaedicially handicapped persons. As such there may be no need to refer for such of cases to outside
the State. Further, facilities for treatment of other types of diseases are also available at the A.L.I.M.C.O.
2. Government after careful consideration have been pleased to recognise the Artificial Limb Manufacturing Corporation
of India at Olatpur district Cuttack as Authorised Medical Institution for treatment of Government servants and their
family members on payment of usual charges as fixed by the authority and the cost thereof except diet charges will be
reimbursed to the Government servant as admissible according to the Medical Attendance Rules in vogue on getting the
Essentiality Certificate prescribed by the State Government the A.L.I.M.C.O. authorities to the effect. A copy of the
Essentiality Certificate approved by the State Government is enclosed.
3. This order will be given effect from the date of issue.
4. This order has been issued with the concurrence of F.D. in their U.O.R. No. 2073 - 111, dated 31st March, 1978.
5. The A.G. Orissa is being informed.
(Health Department G.O. No. 13529 - H., dated 25.4.1975)
Essential Certificate
I certify that Shri/Smt..........Wife/son/daughter/father/mother of Shri...........employed in the......has been under -
treatment for.......disease from to at the Medical Institution Artificial Limb Manufacturing Corporation of India, Olatpur.
Cuttack and that the undermentioned charges were made for his/her treatment.
Price
Rs.
1.
Accommodation
...
2.
Diet
...
3.
Nursing
...
4.
Pathological & Radiological Examination
...
5.
Medicines
...
6.
Operation
...
7.
Artificial Limbs/Appliances
...
Total
...
That the above amount was received from the patient under proper receipt by the hospital authority concerned.
That the above charges are at the rates prescribed by the authority.
That the following medicines which do not include proprietory preparations for which cheaper substances of equal
therapeutic value are available for preparations which are primarily foods, toilets or disinfectants were prescribed for the
Page 14/105
----- PAGE 15 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
patient during the period of his/her treatment in the hospital. He/she was advised to purchase the medicine from outside
as the same were not available in the Hospital stock :
Name of the medicines
Price
1.
Rs.
2.
Rs.
3.
Rs.
Date .................
Signature of the Medical Officer-in-charge
of the case at the Medical Institution
A.L.I.M.C.O. Olatpur, Cuttack
2. Subject - Recognition of Paradeep Port Hospital as Authorised Medical Institution for treatment of Government
servants and their families.
The undersigned is directed to say that since there is no Medical institution of this State Government at Paradeep Port,
Government feel that the State Government servants and their families stationed there are undersigned great hardship
for their medical attendance and treatment.
2. To obviate such difficulty, Government after consideration, have been pleased to recognise the Paradeep Port Trust
Hospital as authorised Medical Institution for treatment of State Government servants and the members of their families
stationed in or passing through Paradeep on payment of usual charges as fixed by the Port authorities (copy enclosed)
and the cost thereof except diet charges will be reimbursed to the Government servants as admissible according to the
Medical Attendance Rules in vogue on getting essentiality certificate prescribed by the State Government from the Port
Hospital Authorities to the effect. A copy of the essentiality certificate approved by the State Government is enclosed
3. This procedure will continue till a Hospital is provided by the State Government at Paradeep.
4. This order will be given effect from the date of issue. All the pending cases shouid be disposed of in accordance with
this decision and cases already settled otherwise should be re - opened.
5. This order issues with the concurrence of Finance Department vide their UOR No. 113 - C.S. II (l) - dated 9.7.1976.
6. The A.G., Orissa is being informed.
(Health Department G.O. No. 235 - 0. H., dated 21.7.1977)
Essentiality Certificate
I certify that Shri/Smt.................... wife/son/daughter/father/mother of Shri.......................employed in the.........has been
under treatment for disease from.... to at the Port Hospital, Paradeep and that the undermentioned charges were made
for his/her treatment.
1.
Accommodation
- Rs.
2.
Diet
- Rs.
3.
Nursing
- Rs.
4.
Pathological & Radiological Examination
- Rs.
5.
Medicines
- Rs.
6.
Page 15/105
----- PAGE 16 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Delivery
- Rs.
Total
- Rs.
That the above amount was received from the patient under proper receipt by the hospital authority concerned.
That the above charges are at the rates prescribed by the Port Hospital authority.
That the following medicines which do not include proprietory preparations for which cheaper substances of equal
therapeutic value are available nor preparations which are primarily foods, toilets or disinfectants were prescribed, the
patient during the period of his/her treatment in the hospital. He/she was advised to purchase the medicines from
outside as the same were not available in the hospital stock :
Name of the medicines
Price
1.
Rs.
2.
Rs.
3.
Rs.
Date .................
Signature of the Medical Officer-in-charge
of the case at the Port Hospital, Paradeep.
3. Subject - Reimbursement of cost of Radiological investigation done in private clinics.
The undersigned is directed to say that as per existing Orissa State Medical Attendance Rules, the cost of Radiological
investigations done in the private clinics when such facilities are not being made available to the Government servants
and their families at the Government hospital was not allowed for reimbursement. Thereby Government servants are put
to much financial hardship when such treatment is required to save the life of the patient. The question of
reimbursement of Radiological investigation at private clinics was under the consideration of Government for some time
past.
2. Government after careful consideration have been pleased to extend the facility of reimbursement of cost of
Radiological examination at the private clinics on emergency cases when such facilities are not available in the
Government hospital either due to shortage of films or due to X - Ray machine having gone out of order on the
prescribed certificate as follows, granted by the Head of the institution.
Certificate
I certify that due to shortage of films/X - Ray machine gone out of order
Shri/Smt.........................son/daughter/father/mother/wife/husband of Shri/Smt......................... serving as..............in the
Department/Office of is advised for X - Ray examination in Private Clinics/Private Practitioners since this is absolutely
essential for the treatment of the patient.
Signature of the A.M. A.
(Medical Officer - in - charge of the RadiologicalDepartment) with designation (Seal)
Countersigned
Signature of the Head of the Medical
Institution with designation (Seal)
3. This order will take effect from the date of issue.
4. This order issues with the concurrence of Finance Department vide their UOR No. 2341 - CS - II. dated 12.8.1976.
5. The A.G.. Orissa is being informed.
(Health Department G.O. No. 32753 - H., dated the 25.9.1976)
4. Subject - Admissibility of treatment of abortion under the Medical Termination of pregnancy Act, 1971
The undersigned is directed to say that as a result of legalisation for termination of pregnancy under the Medical
Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971 a question had been raised whether the expenditure incurred on Medical
Termination of Pregnancy is reimbursible under the Orissa State (Medical Attendance) Rule, 1947 or not.
2. After careful consideration the Governor has been pleased to decide that the expenditure incurred by the Government
Page 16/105
----- PAGE 17 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
servants on medical termination of pregnancy should be reimbursed provided the medical termination of pregnancy has
been performed at Government or other Institutions/Government Hospitals/Institutions approved under the Medical
Termination of Pregnancy Act. 1971 and also recognised under the O.S. (M.A.) Rules, 1947.
3. This issue with the concurrence of the Finance Department vide their U.O.R. No. 371 - CS - II, dated 10.2.1977.
(Health Department G.O. No. 5188 - H,. dated 21.2.1977)
5. Subject - Clarification of rule governing medical attendance of Government servants.
The undersigned is directed to say that it has come to the notice of this Department for clarification as to the
circumstances in which the parents, children, or step children of a Government servant, can be treated as wholly
dependent on a Government servant. It is, therefore, clarified that the general interpretation attached to the words
"wholly dependent" as occurring in other rules and regulations, such as T.A. Rules, etc. normally should be taken in
account. But in case of a father who is a retired Government servant and earning his own pension he may not be wholly
dependent on the Government servant.
2. Further as per the existing practice, vide this Department Order No. 16939 - H., dated 31.8.1967, No. 8851 (23) - H..
dated the 26.4.1968 and No. 17152 - H., dated 18.8.1964, the Assistant Surgeons up to Professors of the Medical
College Hospital, Assistant Surgeons posted to the Hospital, Dispensaries, Medical Aid Centres and Primary Health
Centres are declared as the authorised medical attendants for the Government servants and their . family members.
Therefore, as per the existing orders of Government mentioned above, the Medical Officers of the non - Clinical
Departments of the Medical Colleges are acting as the authorised medical attendants. But it clarified that the
Bacteriologist, Superintendent, Anti - T.B. Demonstration and Training Centre and Assistant to Bacteriologist and
Pathologist are not treated as the authorised medical attendants.
6. Subject - Reimbursement of cost of medicines purchased by the Government servants limits.
In continuation of this Department letter No. 6977 (119) - H,. dated the 17th March, 1973. I am directed to say that
certain types of diseases like Diabetes, T.B., Mental Diseases, Leprosy and Filaria require prolonged treatment. In such
cases domiciliary treatment can be given to the patient (i.e. Government servants and their family members) unless they
are of some serious complications requiring hospitalisation of the patients. The domiciliary treatment can be following up
by an Authorised Medical Attendance at the residence of the patient advising continuous treatment for longer duration.
In consideration of this stipulation in the G.O. referred to above compelling an A.M.A. to refer a patient to the O.P.O. of a
Hospital/Specialist after 10 days treatment is not required in respect of those particular diseases after initial assessment
and proper line of treatment is checked out by an expert.
2. In view of the above Government after careful consideration have been pleased to decide that the patients suffering
from Diabetis, T.B.. Mental diseases, Leprosy, Filaria, who can conveniently continue domiciliary treatment in their
residence without detriment to their day to - day life should not be brought under the rigidity of the Government order
cited above for attending O.P.O. of the Hospital/Specialist after the 10 days treatment.
3. This should take effect from the date of issue of the order. But the claims which are pending in the Department/Offices
should be disposed of in the light of the above order.
4. It is requested that this order may be brought to the notice of all Authorised Medical Attendants under your control.
(Health Department G.O. No. 16968 - H., dated the 5th July, 1973)
7. Subject - Reimbursement of cost of medicines for the treatment of dependant - parents of Government servants.
The undersigned is directed to say that Government servants are eligible for reimbursement of cost of treatment of their
parents when they wholly/mainly depend upon the concerned Government servant. For the purpose of determining the
dependency of parents, the Government servants are required to furnish necessacy declaration as per Explanation (iii)
of para 2 of this Department G.O. No. 29562 (76)/H, dated the 26th September, 1975. The perscribed declaration
appears to be inadequate when a parent has more than one son/daughters serving under the State Government as all
his sons/daughters are entitled for reimbursement of cost of the treatment of their parents. This matter was under
consideration of Government for sometime past.
After careful consideration, Governor has been pleased to decide that a certificate as mentioned below should be given
by the Government servant on the body of the essentiality certificate when medical claims relating to the treatment of
parents are submitted for reimbursement.
"I certify that my father/mother/father-in-law, mother-in-law (In case of female Government servants) is wholly/mainly
dependent upon me and that no claims have been made for him/her during this period by any other Government
servants."
Page 17/105
----- PAGE 18 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
(Health Department G.O. No. 3933 - H., dated the 5th February, 1977)
8. Subject - Reimbursement of cost of medicines for the treatment of General Debility.
The undersigned is directed to say that General Debility is not a disease in itself but a symptom complex. As such the
reimbursement of cost of medicine purchased on this account to Government servants is not admissible unless the
correct disease is mentioned in the essentiality certificate.
2. They are requested to take necessary action to communicate the above clarification to all subordinate officers under
their control for guidance.
(Health Department G O. No. 10212-H., dated the 10th April, 1975)
9. Subject - Reimbursement of cost of medicines of the treatment of Anaemia.
The undersigned is directed to say that Anaemia is not a disease in itself, but the after effects of a disease. Mo such,
reimbursement of cost of medicines purchased on account of treatment of Anaemia to Government is not admissible
unless the disease for which the Anaemia has been caused is mentioned by the authorised Medical Attendant in the
essentiality certificate.
2. They are requested to take necessary action to communicate the above clarification to all subordinate offices under
their control for guidance.
10. Subject - Sanction of advance T.A. to the Government servants for medical attendance and/or treatment at places
outside the headquarters.
Health Department Resolution No. 2444/H., dated 30.1.1970 and subsequent amendment thereto and Government
Order No. 20990, dated 20.6.1971 provides for treatment of Government servants and their family members at places
outside the headquarters. But there is no provision in the O.S. (M.A.) fcules, 1947 to sanction advance T.A. to the
Government servants for the above purpose.
2. In absence of clear provision in the O.S. (M.A.) Rules, 1947, Government servants from various Department are
coming forward to sanction advance T.A. for difraying journey expenses for their treatment and their family members as
they are facing financial hardship initially at the time of undertaking journey particularly to places outside the State. The
Government of India have already allowed such advance T.A. to their employees. This was under examination of State
Government for sometime past.
3. After careful consideration the Governor has been pleased to decide that advance T.A. to the Government servants
undertaking journey in connection with their medical attendance and/or treatment and of their family members at places
outside their headquarters shall be admissible.
(i)
On production of a certificate from the medical authorities as mentioned above.
(ii)
The advance T.A. for medicine attendance and treatment should to treated as an advance on tour and will be
sanctioned in accordance with the same instructions and regulate sanction of advance on tour.
4. This order will take effect from the date of issue.
(Health Department Resolution No. 42167/H., dated 28.12.1978)
11. Subject - Medical Attendance Rules clarifications.
The undersigned is directed to say that a large number of references are being received by Health & F.P. Department
for necessary clarification in the matter of Medical Attendance Rules. Most of these correspondences relate to the
questionable medical claims where the role of the Medical Officers concerned as well as the Government servants
needs vivid examinations and the Departmental proceeding. This requires long process for examination of all such
cases. To minimise such type of correspondences, it has been decided that before any such case is referred to the
Health & F.P. Department the following procedure may be adopted first :
(a)
The medical claims if open to any suspicion or irrelevancy should be referred to the immediate authority of the
concerned A.M.A. for scrutiny.
(b)
On the basis of the opinion of the said authority, if any disciplinary action is felt necessary against A.M.A. as the same
should be referred to the Health Directorate, who will refer the matter to Health & F.P. Department if necessary and
otherwise not.
(c)
Page 18/105
----- PAGE 19 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
No claims or insistence as such should be referred either to the Health & Family Planing Department or to the D.H.S.,
Orissa direct in the preliminary stage, (i.e. before scrutiny by the immediate authority of A.M.A.)
(d)
The claims which appear to be further of fabricated should be processed basing on the Government employee
presenting such claim but not taking the A.M.A. as the centre of all action.
The Controlling Officers have been empowered to disallow claims which do not satisfy the conditions as per Finance
Department Circular No. 1248 (117) - F,. dated 15.1.1964.
(e)
The cases should be referred to the immediate authority of the A.M. As. or to the D.H.S., Orissa, as the case may be
only if the proceedings against the Government employee (claimant) infer that the role of the A.M.A. with relation to the
claim is open to suspicion.
(f)
All correspondences in this respect should be made confidential.
2. The D.H.S., Orissa has issued necessary instruction to all the concerned Medical Officers to co - operate in the
matter.
3. This may kindly be brought to the notice of all concerned under their administrative control.
(Health Department G.O. No. 5200 - H., dated 4.3.1972)
12. Subject - O.S. (M.R.) Rules - Guidelines for proper scrutiny of the medical claims submitted by the Government
servants for purpose of reimbursement cost of allopathic treatment.
The undersigned is directed to say that it has been brought to the notice of Government that false and fabricated
Medical claims are being made by Government servants supported by false cash memos and essentiality certificates
duly stamped and signed by the authorised Medical Attendants.
With a view to eliminate such type of cases, Government after careful consideration have been pleased to issue the
following guidelines to the authorised medical attendants as well as the Controlling Officers :
1. To the authorised Medical Attendants -
(i)
Name, age and the diseases (Block capital letter) of the patient should be mentioned in the prescription.
(ii)
Daily dose/quantity of medicines and the duration of its consumption should be mentioned in the prescription.
(iii)
In the beginning of the treatment of the patient, costly/expensive medicines should not be prescribed if the conditions of
the patient does not warrant to do so before necessary clinical examination of the patient is done.
(iv)
Costly medicines should not be prescribed when cheapest substitute is available having equal therapeutic value.
Purchase of phials should be avoided as far as possible.
(v)
Medicines should not be prescribed for a period of ten days at a stretch since there is every change in the line of
treatment during the above period and the medicines purchased by the patient may not be utilised. Prescription shall be
made for two to three days and thereafter repeated if required. In this connection Health Department G.O. No. 6877 - H.,
dated 17.3.1970 may be followed.
(vi)
Specimen signature may be made available to the Drawing Officers/ Controlling Officers on demand as and when
required.
N.B. - The institutions mentioned in paras (iv) and (v) above are not applicable to the patients suffering from Cancer,
Filaria, Diabetes, T.B., Leprosy and such other diseases which require prolonged treatment.
2. To the Drawing Officers/Controlling Officers -
(i)
The vouchers should contain the name of Medical Officers, who prescribed medicine and the Cash Memos are issued
strictly in conformity with the prescriptions/Out - door tickets/ln - door tickets.
(ii)
The medical claims if open to any suspension or ^relevancy, the procedure enumerated in Health Department G.O. No.
Page 19/105
----- PAGE 20 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
5200 (15), dated 4.3.1972 (copy enclosed) may be adopted before passing such bills for payment.
3. This supersede the Circular No. 5365/M.E.T. dated 19.4.1976 of the D.M.E. and T., Orissa Addressed to the all
Departments of Government/ all Heads of Department/all R.D. Cs.
(Health Departments G.O. No. 31835 - H,. dated 24.11.1978)
13. Subject - Extension of free medical facilities to the retired State Government servants and members of their families.
The State Government have for sometime past had under their consideration the question of allowing free medical
facilities to the retired State Government servants and the members of their families. Pensioners are hard hit because of
the withdrawal of free medical concessions enjoyed by them till their date or superannuation, specially when their
medical needs are great on account of advancing age and deteriorating health coupled with reduced income.
2. Government after careful consideration, has been pleased to decide to allowed to the retired State Government
servants and the members of their families all the medical facilities, i.e. free Pathological, Bacteriological, Radiological,
Cardiographic and E.C.C. examination and concessional rates of charges for accommodation in nursing homes cabins
paying beds, etc. as well as other medical facilities which were being enjoyed by them immediately before their
retirement minus the facility of medical reimbursement.
The Medical Officer may where necessary ask for the pensioner's half of pension payment orders available with does
retired Government servants for the purpose of identification while allowing these facilities.
This order will effect from the date of issue.
(Health Department Resolution No. 16502 - H., dated 27.6.1973)
List of Inadmissible Medicines
I
Preparations classified as foods
The Following Preparation are Classified as Food Whether they are used as Baby Foods, Milk Foods. Invalid Foods,
Beverages, Drinks, Etc.
1. Invalid Foods
Albosang (J and I Dechane)
Anglowfit (Anglowmed)
Alprovit (Cachet)
A and N (Alintosch)
Bournvita
Casila
Casilan - B 12
Complan
Complan (Glaxo)
Complan Banana Flovour
Envitol (Croslands)
GRD (Cadila)
Horlicks
Maltodex
Maltodex - S
Maltova (Jagjit)
Maxim (British Health)
Maxim - HP (British Health)
Milpro
Miltone
Multipurpose Foods
Natal Care (Dalmia)
Nuetramul
(Gujrat Co-operative)
Nurrish (Eskayef)
Nutro - protein
Nutri - Nugget
Page 20/105
----- PAGE 21 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Ovaltine
Protal (Godrej)
Prosoyal (FDC)
Proteena
Provimin
Provita
Provitex
Protinex
Protinuels (Alembic)
Protinuels
Protone (Aristo)
Protogen
Protein Granules (SYU)
Protein Plus Breakfast Food
Protein Hydrolysate (P.H.L.)
Ragotine
Robinson's Patent Barley
Santogen Vitaminised
Soyal (FDC)
Spert (Wander)
Trophox
Trophox (Reptakos)
Uni - Protein
Vitamilk (Glaxo)
Viva and Similar Preparations
Vivonex (MMC)
Zest (DWD)
2. - Baby Foods1
Amul Milk Food
Amul Spray
Dexolac (Wockhard)
Dexolac - HP (Wockhard)
Dexolac Special Care (Wockhard)
Glacto (Glaxo)
Glaxo Baby Food
Lactogen
Lactodex
Lactofed (Workhard)
Lactonil (Citadel)
Lever's Baby Food
Milk Care (Dalmia)
Nespray
Nusobee - 18 (Wockhard)
Nusobee (Wockhard)
Oster Milk
Parag
Simyl - MCT (FDC)
Vita Milk Powder and Similar Preparations
Zorolac (Raptakos)
3. Weaning Food1
Bal Amul
Page 21/105
----- PAGE 22 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Bal Ahar
Boneymix(Glaxo)
Carelac (Nestle)
Dexolac Rice (Wockhard)
Farex
Nestum and Similar Preparations
Nestum Rice (Nestle)
4. Glucose Preparations1
Alconed (Nestle)
Glucon - D (Glaxo)
Glucose - D
Glucose (Dabur)
Glucose with Vitamins
and Similar Preparations
Nesfit (Nestle)
Tionns
5. Liquid Foods and Wines1
Apple Juices and other Juices
Orange Squash and other Squashes
All Alcoholic Beverages
Wines and Spirits and Similar
Preparations
6. Meat Extract And Juices1
Chicken Essence and Similar Preparations
7. Carbonated Flavoured Sweetened Beverages1
Soda Water
Coco Cola
Fanta
Limca
Gold Spot
Vimto
Ginger Ale and Similar Preparations
8. Protein Rich Biscuits1
Alprobisc (Cachet)
Grd Biscuits (Cadila)
Nutro Biscuits
Pro Brisk
Pro Pack Salties
Proteena Biscuits
Threptin Biscuits/Pieces
Uni - Protien Briskess and Similar Prepararion
9. Miscellaneous Preparations1
Arrowroot
Cocoa
Corn Flakes
Iodised Salts
Lactose
Malt Extracts/Malted
Wheaten Foods
Saccharine Tablets
Salt Substitutes
Page 22/105
----- PAGE 23 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Vitaminised Chocolates
Oats and Similar Preparations
Preparations commonly used as Tonics
Tonics
Glycerophosphate with Vitamin
B Complex, Malt etc. (Proprietary products)
Adcco's Compound (ADCCO)
Bevita Compound (UDH)
B.G. Phos (MSD)
B.G. Phos - 12 (MSD)
Biomin (Milnex)
Blvit Phos (GAJJARS)
B - Neuropros (SP LTD)
Branervine (Modern Drug)
Cadimalt (Cadila)
Cabron (East India)
Chem - Digeston (Chemo Pharma)
Chemo Malt (Chemo Pharma)
Deltaplex (Deltakemp)
Deyplex (Dey's)
Dia - Papain (UDH)
Empelix (M and B)
Energon (BCPW)
Eugadine (UDH)
Evofos (Evans)
Ferlivone (Siris)
Ferilex (TCF)
Ferilex Malt (TCF)
Ferradol (Parke Davis)
Gajjar Tone (Gajjar's)
G - Phospho - Lecethin (Calchem)
Glycimin (Sunways)
Hemo - Darkso Malt (Alembic)
Hemiphos (Geoffery Manners)
Hepatina Ferrous (Calchem)
Hepatina (Calchem)
Heprana (Fvans)
Heptamin (Cometeck)
Hevimin with B - 12 (Napra)
Ipcamalt (IPCA)
Iphatone (NATIONAL)
Ivimalt (Bengal Immunity)
La - Biphsos (La Medical)
Leciphos Ferri (Sigma)
Limovita (Sunways)
Livoglopil (OPIL)
Mali and Vita - A Compound (M & H)
Maltomin (Cipla)
Manadol (Geoffery Manners)
M and H Elixir (M & H)
M and H Elixir (M & H)
Page 23/105
----- PAGE 24 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Metatone (Parke Davis)
Metevine (Anakem)
Microffer (Napla)
Minadex (Glaxo)
Minavitol (Morden Drug)
Minolaid (TCF)
Multivitol (Fair Deal)
Navitol malt Compound
(Squibb)
Nephamalt (Napha)
Neucalcin (Modern Drug)
Neurobin (ADCCO)
Neurotone (CST)
Oplmat (OPIL)
* Note - Milk Powders of all kinds, whether it is full cream or half cream or humanised or fortified with Vitamins and
Minerals, Skimmed Milk Powder, either in powder, liquid, condensed or tablet form.
Though some products mentioned above may be manufactured under Drug - Licence. The same are considered, Food/
Dietary Supplements taking into consideration the composition of the items concerned.
Orheftal (E. Merck)
Prabaplex (Pasteur)
Pernexin (Sobering)
Phosfomin (Squibb)
Phosphokemp (Kemp)
Phosphoton (Cipla)
Piciplex Elixir (P.E. Labs)
Prolex - B (Bengal Immunity)
Rakto Phospho Malt (Zandu)
Renovan (Pasteur)
Sharkoferrol (Alembic)
Sharkomalts (Fisheries)
Siotone (Albert David)
Sirimalt (Siris)
Siovina (Albert David)
Sunmalt (Sunways)
Sunplex (Sunways)
Tonavit (Fairdeal)
Tonocarnine/Forte (Bengal Immunity)
Univine (UDH)
Univine with protein (UDH)
Universal's Compound (UDH)
Vibegan (Cal Chem)
Vibiton (BCPW)
Vinkola (SP Ltd.)
Vinkola - 12 (SP Ltd.)
Vincola with Vitamins (SP Ltd.)
Vino - Lecithin (ADCCO)
Vino - Malt (Bengal Immunity)
Vintone with Asoka (SP Ltd.)
Vital - Cithin (East India)
Vitaminised Sanntogen (Cwulfing)
Vitmol Compound (MSD)
Page 24/105
----- PAGE 25 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Waterbury's Vitamin Compound (Warnery)
Zuvimalt Liquid (Zandu)
Toilet Preparations1
Preparation normally used for Toilet purposes
Astringent Lotions
Bath Salts
Cold Creams
Face Powders
Hair Tonics
Hand Creams
Lanoline Toilet
Shampoos
Shaving Creams
Shaving Soaps
Shaving Styptics
Sadin Lotions
Soaps
Tooth Paste
Tooth Powders
Talcum powders
Vanishing Creams
J.B. Powders
Note - And all preparations in the above groups.
Antiseptic - Disinfectants1
Anitol (Bubuna)
Apptol (Ajanta)
Chlorosol
Chilorooresol (B.P.C.)
Clearasol
Cresol
Creosote
Dettol Solution/Cream Dettolin (RCI)
Hibitane Powder/Cream (I.C.I.)
Iteol - 3 (Astra IDL)
Lysol
1. Phenol And Phenol Substitutes
Alkaline Phenol Mouth Wash
Phenol (Carbolic Acid)
Phenol Gargle (B.P.C.)
Phenol Lotion (B.P.C.)
Sodium Phenate Solution
Phenyte
Savlon (Johnson)
Thymol
Thymol Glycerine Compound
(B.P.C.)
Thymol Mouth Wash
Zylol
2. Alcohols
Ethyl Alcohol
Rectified Spirit
Page 25/105
----- PAGE 26 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Isopropyl Alcohol
3. Glycol1
Propylene Glycol
Triethyl Glycol
4. Aldehydes
Formaldehyde Solution
Formalin
5. Acids1
Acetic Acid
Picric Acid
6. Iqdine Compounds T.R. Iodine1
Week Solution of Iodine
Iodoform (Powder)
7. Chlorine Containing Compounds1
Hypochlorite Solution Sodium
Hypochlorite Solution
(H.P.C.)
Liquid Chloramine Solution
(B.P.C)
Chlorinathd Lime (Bleeching Powder)
Eusol - Solution
Halazone Tablets
8. Oxidising Agents H2 O2 (Hydrogen Peroxide)1
Potasium Permanganate
Zinc Sulphate
Zinc Chloride
9. Dyes1
Evans Blue
Brilliant Green
Crystal Violet
Methyl Violet
Methyline Blue
Melachite Green
Scarlet Red
10. Cationic Surfactants Cetrimipe Cream Solution1
Cetavlon Cone. Tine (ICI)
Cetavlex Cream
Savlon Antiseptic Solution/Cream (ICI)
11. Miscellaneous1
Listerine Antiseptic Solution
Kloffen Liquid
K - Liquid
Liso Liquid
Tetmosol Solution
Fairgenol Antiseptic Fluid/Cream
Note - And the Products Disinfectans/(Antiseptics) marked by different Manufacturers containing above
Chemicals/Drugs or preparations made out of them unless specifically exempted i.e. made admissible.
II
List of Expensive Durgs, tonic
Laxatives or Other Element and Proprietory Preparations
"A"
Page 26/105
----- PAGE 27 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Abdec kapseals
Abdec/Drops
Abdevit/Drops
Abdevit with Lysine Drops
Abdecod Drops
Abedin with Lysine Drops
Abin Ointment
Ablarl/Liquid
Acidol Pepsin/Tablets
Acid Enzyme/Capsules
Aciminos/Eliseir
A eivules/Capsules
Aqua Ptychotisconc/Liquid
Acromalt/Liquid
Acrovitaplex Capsules/Drops/Liquid
Acrozyme/Syrup
Adcodex with Methyl Salicylate/Ointment
Adcoo's Compound (RED) Liquid
Adcoo's Compound (YELLOW)
Liquid
Addyzoa/Tablets
Adex/Ointment
Adexolin Cap (GLAXO)
Adical - 12/Liquid
Adiliv (Albertdavid)
Adiliv Forte Cap (ALBERT DAVID)
Adipion - 12/Drops
Adivite/Capsules
Admalt/Liquid
Adminol/Syrup
A and D Pearis
Adrari/Tablets
Advit Drops Forte/Liquid
Advit Amin Massege Oil
Agar - Co/Tablets
Agarol/Emulsion
Agla Atomiser
Agarolsm/Liquid
Ager Antacid/Tablets/Granules
Agre Tonicum/Liquid
Ague Mixture
Aknepak/Lotion/Cream
Aknepak Cleanser
Alkasu/Oil
Albo - Sang/Tablets and Powder
Alephos/Elixir
Aletri - Asok/Liquid
Aletris Cordial/Liquid
Aletritone Tab/Liquid (INDO FRENCH)
Aletrol Uterine Tonic/Alka/Oil
Allerin/Tablets
Page 27/105
----- PAGE 28 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Allomalt/Liquid
Allozyme/Liquid
Almaron/Syrup
Almavit/Drops/Liquid
Aloes Compound/Tablets
Alok Gripe Syrup
Alopex/'Lotion/Ointment
Alpitone (ZANDU)
Al - Proton/Compound/Liquid
Alprovit (CACHET)
Alsarex/Tablets
Altris Elixir
Aluzyme/Tablets
Alvite Tablets/Drops
Alvite Forte/Capsules
Al - Vi - Tope/Drops
Alvizyme/Tablets
Amadrop
Amagol Liquid
Amar Dant Manjan/Powder
Amino Bzyme/Liquid
Aminoco
Aminodex/Liquid
Aminoglobin Cap/Liquid
(ADONIS)
Aminoplex/Liquid
Amino - Protein/Liquid
Aminovin Tonic/Liquid
Aminoxyl Elixir
Aminozyme/Liquid
Amiron/Liquid
Amosan
Amyglia/Tablets
Anacin/Tablets
Anakem Drops
Andre - Vit Drops
Angiers Emulsion
Angur Salasa/Liquid
Anise Water Conc/Liquid
Anodex/Ointment
Anol/Ointment
Anti Bactrin
Anti Fug/Lotion
Anti Flu/Tablets
Anthical/Lotion
Antipyretic Liquid
Antol Antiseptic/Liquid
Apetamine (Tablets India)
Appetase (PCI)
Aprot (AARON)
Aqamin (PFIMEX)
Page 28/105
----- PAGE 29 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Apitolin/Elixir
Argentum Ophthalmic
Collosold/Drops
Argentum with Ephedrine/Liquid
Collosol/Drops
Argotone Nasal Drops
Argusal/Syrup
Aristozyme (ARISTO)
Arjin/Tablets
Arjunin/Tablets
Arshonyt Mild/Forte/Tablets/Ointment
Ascozyme (ASTHADROGS)
Asgamid/Liquid
Ashar/Tablets
Ashoka Compound/Liquid
Ashok Cordial/Liquid
Ashok Cordial with Hormones and Vits/Liquid
Ashokarin/Tablets
Askoletris/Liquid
Asmaco/Liquid
Asmaplon/Tablets
Asmin/Tablets/Liquid
Asmocide/Liquid
Asmolone/Syrup/Tablets Plain/Depot
Asmo Rol/Elixir
Asokachem/Elixir
Asoka Cordial/Liquid
Asokavin/Liqiuid/Tablets
Asokavin with Hormones/Liquid/Tablets
Asok - Ovarian/Liquid
Asthawil/Liquid
Asthma Relief/Powder
Asthma Reliever/Liquid
Astyfer (TABLETS INDIA)
Astymin (TABLETS INDIA)
Asvan/Elixir
Atcolysin/Drops
Atcovin/Syrup/Drops/Capsules
Auratinum/Tablets
Aurinol/Drops
Ayapon/Tablets
Auazol/Oral amples
Ayurzyme/Liquid
Azmol/Liquid
Azmosal/liquid
Azamatone/Liquid
"B"
Babco Irin/Liquid
Babynol/Liquid
Babytone/Liquid
Balamrit/Liquid
Page 29/105
----- PAGE 30 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Balshoo Larka/Liquid
Banalona/powder
Bangshil/Tablets
Banovit/Tablets
Ban's Cough Syrup
Bardase/Liquid/Tablets
B. Ascorvit/Tablets
Basiton Forte Tab/Cap/Liquid
(SQUIB)
Basiton Forte Tab (SARABHI)
Balsymalt/Liquid
Bayer's Tonic/Liquid
B.C.F. Compound/Liquid
B.C.F. Gripe Water
B.C.F. Idonex/Ointment
B.C.F. Stomach Cure/Liquid
B - Colax/Tablets
Becadex/Forts/Syr./Drops/Tabs/Cap.
Becadexamin/Capsules/Liquid
(KEMP)
Becamin/Tablets
Becapc Tab/Cap/Liquid (KEMP)
Becelac (PFIMEX)
Beflora
Becelac
Becozyme C Fort E
B - Colen
Becolysinerc/Capsules
B. Complex with Lysine/Elixir
Beniplex/Forte/Capsules/Syrup
Beplex (ANGLO FRENCH) Frote
Civit
Becoptin - Z - ( APPLE)
Becosules Syrup (PFIZER)
Becozinc (AMERICAN REMEDIES)
Benylet/Cough Lonzenges
Benzocin Lozenges
Benzomones/Injection
Benzytol/Alcholic/Liquid
Bestol/Liquid
Becofral/Elixir
Becolysine - 12/Caps.
Becosules/Capsules/Syrup
Bekovite/Caps.
Belcodial/Liquid
Becozyme C Forte (ROCHE)
Beetrion (FRANCO INDIA)
Bekovite/Caps.
Belmozyme/Liquid
Belvipiex/Liquid
Belvizyme/Liquid
Page 30/105
----- PAGE 31 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Benedicts Soln
Benelix/Drops
Beplex (ANGLO FRENCH)
Bestozyme/Tab./Syp.
Beflora (INVINEX)
Bestrenol/Syrup
Betaplexil Forte/Tablets
Betavit Forte Cap. (NICLLOLAS)
Betonin (Vit. B. Compiex)/Elixir
Betonin (BOOTS)
Bestozyme (BIOLOGICAL EVANS)
Bevitaco Forte/Elixir
B.G. Min/Elixir
B.G. Phos/Elixir and B.G. Phos - 12/ Elixir
Beplex Forte (ANGLO FRENCH)
Beplex Forte Viamin B - 12 (ANGLO FRENCH)
B.G. Plex/Liquid
B.H.Elixir/Elixir
B.H. Pills/Pills
Bi - Agar Oil (Liquid)
Bi - Alkazyme/Powder
Bi - Alumina/Suspension
B.l. Chol/Tablets
B.l. Cholera Phace/Solution
Bico - Chilate/Syrup
Bico - Cordial/Liquid
Bicodin/Syrup
Bicogadine Elixir
Bi - Colates/Tablets
Bi - Coliphos Compound/Liquid
Bicomin Drops
Bidical - 12/Syrup
Bidical with Iron/Tab.
Bicovita/Elixir'
Bidistase/Liquid
B.l. Dysenteryphage/Solution
B.l. Elixir B - Complex/Elixir
B.l. Glyceropepsin/Liquid
Bi. Intestiphage/Solution
Biligen/Liquid
Bilolax/Tablets
Bi - Magpaste/Paste
Bi - Milk of Magnesia/Suspension
Biodex M.S./Ointment
Biodyne/Liquid
Biofoliron/Syrup
Biofol - 12/Elixir
Biogumpaint/Liquid
Biogripe/Liquid
Biomin/Syrup
Biomin with Vit. B - 12/Syrup
Page 31/105
----- PAGE 32 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Bioprot (BIO CHEM)
Biosal Gripe Mixture
Biostar (MICRO)
Bioviton Compound/Liquid/Drops
Biovital (MICRO)
Bipad Bandhu/Liquid
Bipivite/Forte/Drops
Bipivules/Capaules
Birondcal/Tablets
Birond with Liver/Liquid
Bisedyl/Liquid
Bishahari/Liquid
Bis - O - Pep/Liquid
Bis - Papin/Liquid
Bispepcal/Syrup
Bita Pastilles/Tablets
Bi - Transfusion and Infusion Set
Bitter Pills/Tablets
Bi - Typhodphage/Solution
Bivinal/Tablets/Elixir/Cap
Bivinal Forte C Viic (Alembic)
Bi - Vita. B/Syrup
Bivit - Phos/Liquid Biviplex (PRIME)
Blood - Vigour/Liquid
Blood - Vina/Liquid
Blood - Vita/Liquid
Blosyn (GUFFIC)
B. and M. Pills/Pills
B - Neurophos/Elixir
Boldine/Tablets
Bonnisan Liquid
Bonnisan (HAMALAYAN)
Boots Urine Test
Boro Fax/Ointment
Boroline/Cream
Bowlax/Tablets
B.P. Vit/Liquid
Brahamdine/Tablets
Brahmi Triphal Tail/Oil
Branervine/Liquid
Btanomalt/Liquid
Brainuita (BIOTECH)
Brentosan/Liquid/
Bromal/Liquid/Elixir
Bromalin/Elixir
Bromoral/Liquid
Bromotone/Liquid
Bromotn Mixture
Bronchosol/Elixir
Brovalco/Elixir
Brovimin Compound/Liquid
Page 32/105
----- PAGE 33 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
B - Tex Pain Balm
Burn Cure/Ointment
Burn - O - Rub
Burn Rub/Ointment
Burnol/Ointment
B - Vitol/Elixir
Beldrops/Drops
Broven Bronchial Mixture/Liquid
"C"
Cadilagripe/Liquid
Cadimalt/Liquid
Caladol/Ointment
Caladry/Cream/Lotion
Calamine/Lotion
Calamine Lotion
Calamine with Silicone/Lotion
Calbisix/Syrup
Calci. - K/Tablets
Calcilysine/Elixir
Calacinol/Syrup/Tablets
Calcinol with Iron and B - 12/Syrup
Calcinova (ESKYEF)
Calciphos - 12/Liquid
Calcirol Granules (CADILA)
Calci - Rutin - K/Tablets
Calcipca AD - 12/Syrup
Calcitone/Liquid
Calcium - CD Inga/Tablets/Syrup
Calcium - D Redoxon/Tablets
Calcium Sandoz/Syrup
Calcium VIT C and D with B - 12 Tablets
Calcium Sandez with Vitamin - C and D/Tablets
Calculex - O/Pills
Calcury/Tablets
Calcurosion/Capsules/Syrup
Caldic Calcium - C VIT
C and D/Tablets
Caldicin/Lozenges
Caldivir/Liquid
Caldivite/Liquid
Cal - D Rubra/Liquid
Caleferium/Liquid
Calma Balmrit/Syrup
Calrich (LIFELINE)
Caloshel (Emcure)
Cal Ron/Liquid
Calpovit F (PFIMEX)
Calvimag/Syrup
Calvirix/Liquid/Tablets
Calviron/Liquid
Galviton
Page 33/105
----- PAGE 34 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Calvitron (CHILIKA)
Campoferron/Capsules/Syrup
Cantilyn/Liquid
Capsovit/Capsules
Capyna/Plain/Compound/Tablets
Carbindon Mild/Tablets
Carbindon Strong/Tablets
Carbo Citra/Powder
Carbospasmin/Tablets
Cardatol
Cardcosol/Liquid
Cardiased/Tablets
Cardiotonem Mild/Strong/Tablets/Pills
Cardmon Co/Liquid
Carica - Dizol/Liquid
Carisomat/Tablets/Compound
Carmicide Strong/Syrup/Liquid
Carminex/Liquid
Carmino/Liquid
Carmisar/Liquid
Carmitab/Tablets
Carmozyme/Liquid
Carriotone/Tablets
Casilan/Powder
Casilon B - 12/Powder
Castroline Laxative/Tablets
Casymal/Liquid
Catalin/Tablets
C. B. Tina Tab/Cap/Liquid (CAL CHEM)
Cebexin (IDPL)
Cabion Tab/Drops (MERCK)
Cecon Drops (ABBOTT)
Celin/Ceun Chewable (GLAXO)
Centxplex Cap/Liquid (CENTAUR)
Centofer - C (CENTAUR)
Chaulmoogra Oint
Chavan Prash with Ashtavarg/Powder
Chemagar/Liquid
Chem - Digeston/Syrup
Chem - Digeston Forte/Forte
Chem Epper/Syrup
Chemi - B - Phos/Elixir
Chemitone B - 12/Elixir
Chemo - Malt/Liquid
Cherana/Cough Drops
Cherry Cap (CACHEP)
Chesol/Liquid
Cheston/Syrup
Chewcee/Tablets
Chewcee Tab (CYNAMIDE)
Chicken Essence/Oral/Liquid
Page 34/105
----- PAGE 35 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Chileplex (CHILIKA)
Chilzyme (CHILLKA)
Cinkara (HAMDARD)
Chinium - Co/Tablets
Cholinoplex/Syrup
Cibex Forte with Diastase Tablets/ Liquid (LUPIN LOBOR)
Cinpa/Tablets
Cipules/Capsules
Clerasil/Cream
Clemenstol/Liquid
Cobadex Forte Tablets/Capsule/Liquid (GLAXO)
Cocolax/Tablets
Codinga/Tablets
Codylax/Lozenges
Colax/Tablets
Colibils/Liquid
Colliginol/Liquid
Col - Cal - D - B - 12/Liquid
Colysine/Liquid
Colloix Sulphur/Liquid
Combitone/Elixir
Combitone SF/Elixir
Combizyme/Dragee
Complan/Powder
Complan Banana/Flavour/Powder
Complizym.e/Liquid
Compound Effervescent Powder/ Powder
Compound Essence of Peppermint/ Liquid
Constilax/Pills
Cooper's B - Complex/Syrup
Cooper's Cough Tabs.
Cooper's Cough Syrup
Cord Powder
Cordial - Aletro - Ashoka/Liquid
Coroll/Syrup/Lozenges
Cornac/Liquid
Corn and Wart Remover/Liquid
Cosylan/Syrup
Cremaffin Pink/Liquid
Cremaffin FS (EMIL)
Croyfer/Syrup
Croyvit/Drops
Crulivex/Liquid
Crumivill/Syrup
Curill/Tablets
Cutfar/Ointment
Cuticurya Oinf. .
Cuticura Talcum Powder
Cyclovarin/Syrup
Cydine (CFL)
Cyphoids/Lozenges Cypon Drops (GEND)
Page 35/105
----- PAGE 36 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Cystex
Cystolysine/Liquid
Cystone/Tablets
"D"
Da Damal/Liquid
Dabur Aqua Ptychotis/Liquid
Dabur Balm/Ointment
Dabour Cholrodyne/Liquid
Daburin/Liquid
Dabur Fluohydric/Solution
Dabur Influenza/Tablets
Dabur Iodised Sarsa/Liquid
Dabur Malaria/Tablets
Dabur Mercuricoleate Paint
Dabur Mritsanjiwani/Liquid
Dabur Sarbgun Oil
Dabur Pyorrhoea
Remedy/Liquid
Dacetol/Liquid
Dadrugajinas/Ointment
Damagal/Dragees
Dangine/Tablets
Dardant/Liquid
Dardina/Liquid
Darkan/Liquid
D - Caron/Tablets
Decab/Syrup/Drops
Dacab Superforte/Syrup
Decaferon/Liquid
Decaplex Forte/Capsules/Liquid
Decil/Tablets
Deepan/Tablets
Deferon/Liquid
Deifen Contraceptive Cream
Delirek Cap (PLETHICO)
Deltahematin/Liquid
Deltavite - M/Liquid
Deltazyme/Liquid
Demultin/Tablets
Dentament
Dentex Drops
Dentin/Paint
Dentkure/Liquid
Dentol/Paint
Dentol/Drops
Dentone/Liquid
Dentyl/Liquid
Dequadin/Lozenges
Deschiens/Syrup
Desentrall/Tablets
Desma/Tablets
Page 36/105
----- PAGE 37 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Dettol Antiseptic/Liquid/Cream
Dettolin (RCI)
Devtol/Drops
Dexorange Plus (WARDEX)
Dextropil - D'/Powder
Dextrose Powder
Dettolin/Mouth wash
Dexorange's Syrup of Haemoglobin Syrup
Diadyn/Liquid
Dia/Pepco/Liquid
Diapepsin/Liquid
Diaphorex/Plain/Forte/Liquid
Diapsol Liquid
Diarex/Tablets
Diastase/Liquid
Diastin/Liquid
Diastos Liquid/Liquid
Diasyn/Tablets
Diazol/Syrup
Diazyme/Powder v
Di - Calch Plex/Elixir
Diagenzymes/Elixir
Digeplex/Liquid
Digiecid/Tablets
Digest Elixir
Desestal (Syrup)
Digestive Syrup
Digestone/Liquid
Digestopan/Tablets/Syrup
Digevit/Elixir
Digex/Tablets/Powder
Diocol/Liquid
Dipavite/Capsules
Dipep/Tablets
Diplozyme/Tablets
Dispeptal/Dragees
Dispeptase/Liquid
Ditaquin Super/Liquid
Dizytone/Syrup
Drakshasava/Liquid
Dropovit/Drops
Drycony/Liquid
Durol/Liquid
DYNA - 6 (PFIMEX)
Dynacal (PFIMEX)
Dynaglobin (UNIMED)
Dynazinc (PFIMEX)
Dysentry Caps
Dysentrolin/Liquid
"E"
Easterns Cough Cure/Liquid
Page 37/105
----- PAGE 38 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Easterns Stomach cure/Liquid
Eastobispepsol/Liquid
Eastogadin/Liquid
Eastovit/Liquid
Edarin/Syrup
Edinol/Capsules
Egluvite/Tablets
Elsocal/Tablets
Adhesive Bandages
Elbizyme/Capsules/Liquid
Elcarim Elixir (TTK)
Ele - B/Capsules/Syrup
Eledec/kapseals
Electrolytic Chlorine/Liquid
Elexird Gevit/Liquid
Elexir Neozyme
Elexir Neurobin
Elliman's Embrocation/Liquid
Elovit/Drops/Syrup
Elpha/Tablets
Elphin Pain Balm
Elsoma Liquid (ROUSSEL)
Eltonal - 16/Liquid/Capsules
Emerplex/Elixir
Emo Cordial/Liquid
Emoform Medicated/Tooth Paste
Enerjex (INDOPHARMA)
Energon/Liquid
Enervit/Tablets/Drops
Enopan/Tablets
Eno's Fruit Salt
Enterodarin/Tablets
Entrops/Oil
Entro Vitazyme/Tablets
Entrozyvit/Tablets
Enz (GALPHA)
Enzovit/Tablets
Enzymex/Tablets/Syrup
Enzytab/Tablets
Enzyvit/Liquid
Ephanol (ROCHE)
Ephomag/Elixir/Tablets/Syrup
Ergadol/Capsules
Ergamin/Capsules
Ergopex/Capsules
Ergoquin/Capsules
Eromalt/Liquid
Erprotein/Powder
Erythrotone/Capsules/Liquid/Syrup
Esbelac (SAIN)
Essence of Chicken/Oral/Liquid
Page 38/105
----- PAGE 39 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Estienzyme/Tablets
Estypan/Syrup/Drops
Estyzyme/Liquid
Eucalyputs Oil
Eucol/Tablets
Eu - Enzyme/Tablets
Eugadine/Elixir
Eugadin with Lysirte/Elixir
Eumalt/Liquid
Eunova Tonic/Liquid
Eupeptine Elixir
Eupharma's Sugar Tape
Euphomin/Liquid
Euroton/Drops
Eutheria/Balm
Euvita/Capsules
Euvitan/Tablets/Drops/Elixir
Evofos/Forte Syrup/Liquid
Evacool (FRANCO INDIAN)
Eve's Cordial/Liquid
Evion (MERCK)
Eye Nola/Eye Lotion
"F"
Factocal (PHARMASIA)
Fairgenol Antiseptic
Farobel (GUJRAT DRUGS)
Fluid
Fair Genol Hospital Strenth
Farex/Powder
F.C. Tone/Liquid
Feaa Drop/Syrup (ENDOVEN)
Fehling's Soln - A
Fehiling's Solution - B
Felamal/Liquid
Femaline/Liquid
Femiflora/Capsules
Femina (ASHOKA CORDIAL)/Liquid
Femiplax/Pills
Femix (WOCKHARD)
Femocordial/Liquid
Fentalax/Tablets
Ferakem/Liquid
Fepsa/Tablets
Ferical/Syrup
Fercee (ALKEN)
Fercel 300 (CIFADEL)
Feritex Malt/Liquid
Ferilivine/Liquid
Ferindomin/Tablets
Ferilivone/Liquid
Feristron - T/Tablets
Page 39/105
----- PAGE 40 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Fermina/Liquid
Fero - B - Liver/Syrup
Fero - B - Cal/Tablets/Syrup
Ferodex/Liquid
Feroectron/Liquid
Ferradol/Liquid
Ferratone/Forte/Liquid
Ferrton/Liquid
Ferrocmelate (ALBRT DAVID)
Ferroson/Liquid
Ferrovit (CATALIO)
Ferro - Vitol/Liquid
Ferro Winoninos Syrup
Fesovit Capsules (ESKAYEF)
Fesule (HIGOCHI)
Fetex/Paste
Fever Caps
Fez (NAFRA)
Fezocaf (AMERICAN REMEDIES)
Fezocar (CHEM INNOVA)
Firrona
Fitovit Caps (JB)
Filibon/Capsule
Fluzen/Tablets
Folifer - 12/Tablets
Foliplex/Liquid/Capsules
Foliplon - 12/Liquid
Formode
Fourtsb (FOURTS)
Fortege/Tablets
Fructogen/Liquid
Fruitlax/Mild/Forte/Jelly
Furvitone/Tablets
"G"
Gajjartone/Liquid/Plain/Compound
Galacol/Tablets
Gamophen Soap
Garga Phos/Liquid
Garg Asmodin/Liquid
Garg Ashoka Cordial/Liquid
Garg Calciton/liquid
Gargferol/Liquid
Garg Gripe Water
Garg Kafolin/Liquid
Garg Liverin/Liquid
Garg Multimin/Capsules
Garlic Pearls (RANGAVY)
Garill/Pills
Gasex/Tablets
Gaskil/Tablets
Gasofix/Pills
Page 40/105
----- PAGE 41 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Gastral/Liquid
Gastrex/Tablets
Gastrol/Powder
Gastrozime/Tablets
Gastrozyme/Liquid
Gelco Sponge/Sponge
Genelac (ROMET)
Gervit/Capsules
Geritone/Capsules/Tablets
Geriadrine/Tablets
Geriatric Indon/Tablets
Germex/Ointment
Germs Kutter/Ointment
Gerobion/Tablets
Geronyl/Tablets
Gestone (ZANDU)
Getsit/Liquid
Gevral/Capsules
Gharin/Ointment
Ginesec (DUPHAR)
Ginseng (BIOLOMICAL EVANS)
Ginsome Cap./Syp. (SIDMAK)
Gintona (LYKA)
Gipizyme/Tablets
Girko Asokarin Cordial/Liquid
Girko Balamrita/Liquid
Girko Bromvel/Liquid
Girko Dantsudha/Drops
Girko Ferripent/Liquid
Girko Kanthol/Liquid
Girko Karnol/Drops
Girko Reddol/Liquid
Givit/Syrup/Tab./Caps.
Glamur Shampoo
Glaxo/Dried milk gloxose - D/Powder
Glenseng (GLERMARK)
Globac Cap
Globirex (MAPRA)
Globiron (AGLOMED)
Glucoferrol/Liquid
Gluconte/Syrup
Glucose - D/Powder/Tablets
Glucozyme/Liquid
Glusymin/Liquid
Glutaplex/Elixir
Glutaphos/Tablets/Capsules
Glutazim/Liquid
Glycerothymol/Mouth - wash
Glycero Thymol Compound/Liquid
Glycymin/Syrup
Glycodin/lozenges
Page 41/105
----- PAGE 42 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Glypep/Liquid
Glysovit/Liquid
Goitre Cure/Liquid
Gold Cap (AMRUTANJAN)
Golden Ear Drops
Golden Terp Vasaka/Syrup
Grant - Co/Tablets
Green Punarnawa/Liquid
Gripease/Liquid
Gripal/Liquid
Gripema/Gripe Mixture
(CALL COMPANIES)
Gripe Water (All COMPANIES)
Gripina/Liquid
Gripo/Liquid
Gripo Gripe Water/Liquid
Griptone/Elixir
Grymix/Liquid
Grypanil/Liquid
Gudhal/Tablets
Gul Vasak/Liquid
Gumtone/Powder Gyanetone Syrup
Gyanetone/Syrup
(UNIVERSAL MEDICAMENTS)
Gynaecolin/Liquid
Gynedol/Syrup
Gynosedan/Liquid
Gynicol/Syrup
Gynipca/Syrup
Gynocol/Liquid
Gynotone/Liquid
"H"
Haema Range (EMCURE)
Haematica Palata/Liquid
Haematinic Liver/Cap.
Haemivata/Tablets
Haemogen/Syrup
Haemolin/Liquid
Haemoplon/Capsules
Haemostil/Tablets
Haemotone/Syrup
Haemo - Quinotone/Liquid
Haemop (CADILA)
Halfer (ROMET)
Halib Orange/Syrup
Halibuto Orange/Syrup
Halical/Liquid
Hazeline Beauty Talc
Hazeline 2 - Way Cold Cream
Hazeline Snow
Hbdice (ODPL)
Page 42/105
----- PAGE 43 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Hbplease Toreent
Hb Rich (MERIND)
Healax/Powder
Helax/Tablets
Healax/Ointment
Healo - Brom/Tablets
Healo - Cordial/Liquid
Healogesic/Tablets
Healopectin Plain/Forte/Suspension
Healophos/Elixir
Healozyme Supper Forte/Elixir
Heart Soothin/Liquid
Hemma Powder
Hemasto Hepatine/Liquid
Hematone/Capsules
Hemtrine (SANDOZ)
Hematrine/Capsules/Liquid
Hemiphos/Elixir
Hemiphos (WYETH)
Hemo Asorka/Liquid
Hemfer (ALKEM)
Hemobin with Liver Ext/Liquid
Hemo - Phos/Liquid
Hemocare (MMC)
Hemochromin/Capsules
Hemo - Drakso - Malt/Liquid
Hemoferin/Liquid
Hemoferin Cilver Ext/Liquid
Hemofolbin/Liquid
Hemogenic Compound/Liquid
Hemolivit/Tabiets/Elixir
Hemopatol/Liquid
Hemoplex/Tablets
Hemo - Quinotone/Liquid
Hemoran/Liquid
Hemovine/Liquid
Hemsudha kdh/Liquid
Heary's Omum Carpoor
Hepa - 70/Tab./Drops/Syrup
Hapabin/Liquid
Hepachol/Liquid
Hepafolin/Liquid
Hepanate/Liquid
Hepargen with Methonine and Choline/ Liquid
Hepartone/Liquid
Hepason/Liquid
Hepasules/Capsules
Hepasules (BIOLOGICAL EWANS)
Hepatina/Syrup Ferrous
Hepatex/Liquid
Hepatone/Liquid
Page 43/105
----- PAGE 44 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Heptuna/Capsules
Hepatoglobine/Syrup
Hepaviron/Liquid
Hepavitrone/Liquid
Hepazol Cordial/Liquid
Hepoferrum/Cap./Liquid
Hepovite/Granules
Hepp (LUPIN)
Heprona/Syrup
Heptamin/Elixir
Heptamin Oral/Liquid
Harbal Biters/Tablets
Hereolax/Milk/Strong/Tablets
Herobolax (HIMALAYAN)
Herbo - Sulpha/Tabtets
Herbotone/Liquid
Herzolan/Liquid
Hevimin with B - 12/Liquid
Hevimin Co with Folic Acid/Liquid
Hexabrom/Elixir
Hexaplex/Tablets
Hexaron/Syrup
Hexavit/Tablets
Hi - Phos/Liquid
Hill's Cough Syrup
Hill's Glycerine/Liquid
Hill's Gripe Water
Hill's Liniment
Hill's Pain Balm
Hill's Throatpaint
Himcolin/Ointment
Himrodas Powder
Hi - Nutrone/Oral/Liquid
Hipro (AMERICAN REMEDIES)
Honey Proliquid (MAYO)
Horlicks/Powder
Horomo - Gerobion/Tablets
Hromopirin/Tablets
Hornby's Tablets
Hormotone - Mild - Forte/Tablets/Liquid
Hovite/Syrup/Tablets/Drops
Hycibex Cap/Liquid (PHARMED)
Hydary Skin Cure/Liquid
Hydrogen Peroxide/Solution
Hydropron/Liquid
Hydroprotein/Liquid
Hypocal/Syrup
Hypotone/Liquid
"I"
Iberol Tab/Liq/(ABBOTT)
I.C.C. Elixir Idiglobin (IDPL)
Page 44/105
----- PAGE 45 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Igol (RAPTAKOS)
Imeron (RALLIS)
Improvin (ARMOUR)
Incremin/Drops/Syrup
Incremin with Iron/Surup
Incretone Elixir
Incremin Drop/Syrup (CYNAMID)
Ind - Compound/liquid
Indocolates/Capsules
Indoliver/Liquid
Indocordial/Liquid
Indo Malt/Liquid
Indoulex/Liquid
Indozyme/Liquid
Infant Carminat/Tablets
Infladin/Liquid
Influenza Mixture/Liquid
Ingazyme/Tablets/Syrup
Intestozyme/Tablets
Invotone - H (JEWIRIK PRODUCTS)
lodex/Ointment
lodex with Methylsalicy
Llate/Ointment
Iodised Sarsaparilia/Liquid
Iodised Sarasaprimla with Mercury and Aresenic/Liquid
Iodised Sarsa/Liquid lodogel Compound/Powder
I.M.S./Ointment loquin/Tablets
Ipcamalt/Liquid
Ipcamin/Tablets
Ipcatone/Syrup
Ipcavite/Syrup/Forte/Capsules
Irin Glyceropersin/Elixir
Irivine/Liquid
Irinvita Compound/Liquid
Irin - Vitaphos/Liquid
Irodex/Liquid
Iroplex/Liquid
Iroplon/Liquid
Isobael/Granules
I-So-Gel (GEL)
Isovin/Liquid
Iteol - 3/Liquid Itwel (JENERIK)
Ivi - Malt/Liquid
Itwel (JENERIK)
"J"
Jaglax/Tablets
Jagson Pain Balm
Jaimar Jelly
Jakhmeruz Pink/Ointment
Janovit (JANUS)
Jaylysin/Syrup/Drops
Page 45/105
----- PAGE 46 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
J.K. 22/Tablets
Joamina/Liquid
Jodol J.P.Tone (JAGSONPAL)
Julabin/Tablets
Julax/Tablets
Juritap/Liquid
Jwarantika/Liquid
Jyoti Bindu/Liquid
"K"
K - 5 Medical Hair Tonic
Kabz - Har (BAIDYANATH)
kafbin/Syrup
Kafonul/Liquid
Kafsol/Liquid
Kafu/Liquid
Kalmegh Compound/Liquid
Kalmegh Liq.. Comp.
Kalzana/Tablets
Kalzana/Syrup
Kampip/Liquid
Kanormal (GERMAN REMEDIES)
Kaolin with Opium Mixture
Karan Bindu/Liquid
Karmitol/Liquid
Karnative/Liquid
Karpin Lotion
Karvol Inhalant/Capsules
Kayzyme/Liquid
Kemivit/Capsules
Kemplivite/Capsules
Kenazyme (SMITA AND KENNER)
Kec - karpin/Oii
Kepler Multivit/Capsules with Shark
Liver Oil
Kepler Malt Extract
Kesa Drops/Drops
Kesa Malt/Liquid
Kesrijivan (ZANDU)
Kesazyme/Syrup
Khandeliab Gripe Water
Khujlina/Pills/Oil
Kilik/Liquid
Kinetone/Elixir
Kinetone (BOOTS)
K - Liquid
Klofen/Liquid
K.M.P. Suspesion
Kloflozen/Lozenges
Koflyn/Tablets
Kofol/P il Is
Kof - Tone/Liquid
Page 46/105
----- PAGE 47 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Kolaria/Liquid
Kolog Powder
Kolrub/Ointment
Kosmobroad/Syrup
Kotephrol Kdh/Syrup
Kotert - Vask Kdh/Syrup
Kotia Bebizol/Liquid
Kotia Jeevatdhara/Elixir
Kozymidin/Liquid
Kremina Kdh/Elixir
Krime Hun/Tablets
Kriminash/Tablets
Kristal/Tooth Paste
Kruschen Salt/Powder
Kufex Kdh/Syrup
Kuffzol/Syrup
Kuf Ku./Syrup
Kynotomine/Tablets
"L"
Lacplex (ZENITH)
Lactare (TTK)
Lacteena/Liquid
Lactisyn/Oral ampules
Lactobec (CRIPS)
Lacto - Calamine/Lotion
Lactodex/Powder
Lactoferment/Tablets
Lacto - Lysine/Syrup
Lady's Cordial/Liquid
Lalshad/Balament
La - Multivitamin/Tablets
Laviest (FRAN - COINDIA)
Laxagol (with Phenod Phtholein)/Suspension
Laxaiax/Tablets
Laxil/Tablets
Laxin Don/Tablets
Laxo/Tablets
Laxoflora (DEVS)
Laxolax/Mild/Forte/Tablets
Laxolein/Tablets
Laxomil/Tablets
Laxophen/Tablets
Leciphos/Elixir
Lee - Plex/Syrup
Leptaden/Tablets
Leucocide/Tablets
Leucogen/Piils
Leucorrhin Nos. 1 and 2/Liquid
Leukora/Liquid
Levina/Tablets
Libatone Ferri/Liquid
Page 47/105
----- PAGE 48 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Libforte/Liquid
Libinal/Liquid
Libraphos/Liquid
Lifodex/Liquid
Li - Mic Forte/Liquid
LimceeTab (SARABHAI)
Limical/Powder/Biscuits
Limovita/Syrup
Lipidex/Caps.
Lipotro/Syrup
Liq Menorin
Liquition/Liquid
Liso/Liquid
Listerine Antiseptic/Liquid
Listerine Antiseptic Throat Lozenges
Little's Gripe Water
Little's Inhaler
Little's Oriental Balm
Little's Tiger Brand Eucalyptus Oil
Livalbrom/Syrup
Livamine - 6/Liquid
Livco (VILCO)
Liver - Bel/Liquid
Liver - Bin/Liquid
Liver - Gen/Tabttes/Liquid/Syrup
Livernut - 12/Liquid
Livernut Iron/Liquid
Livernut/Capsules
Livertone/Pills/Liquid
Livex/Tab./Syrup/Drops
Livex/Tablets
Livgain (MPI)
L.i - Vidrops - B/Drops
Li - Vidrops - M/Drops
Liviferrol/Liquid
Li - Vimalt/Liquid
Livirubra with Folic and B - 12/Liquid
Livitaron/Liquid
Livitione/Llquid
Livitione Forte/Liquid
Livo - B Complex
Livo - B Complex with B - 12/Syrup
Livobin/Liquid
Livo - B - Phos/Liquid
Livodex/Liquia
Livodex (BIOTECH)
Livofer/Capsules
Li vogen/Caps./Liquid
Liovoglopil/Syrup
Livoluk (PANACEA)
Livomagna/Capsules
Page 48/105
----- PAGE 49 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Livomaz with Ext Folic Acid 12/Liquid
Livominex/Elixir
Livomyn/Tablets/Drops/Syrup
Livona (GLENMARK)
Livopep/Liquid
Livosin/Liquid
Livosin (JUPITER)
Livosol/Liquid
Livospin/Liquid
Livotone/Liquid
Livotrit/Tabs./Liquid
Livotrit/Tab/Liquid (ZANDU)
Livo Usan/Liquid
Livozyme-12 with Ext. Folic Acid/Liquid
Livrol/Elixir
Livules/Capsules
Livules with Folic Acid and Vt. B-12/Capsules
Lorexame Antiseptic/Dusting Powder/Head Lotion
Lucogyl/Capsules
Lukol/Tablets
Lukure (TTK)
Lunarex/Mild/Forte/Tablets
Lupifolin-12/Liquid
Lupimalt/Liquid
Lupivite Drops/Liquid
Lupizyme/Liquid
Lycal-12/Syrup
Lycotonic/Liquid
Lycozyme/Liquid
Lypolex/Syrup
Lysatone (CITADEL)
Lysical/Liquid
Lysicon-V (KLARSEHEN)
Lysidex/Syrup
Lysimin/Drops/Elixir/Tab. /Syrup
Lysin D-2/Drops
Lysin-12/Drops
Lysindon-B/Liquid
Lysinex/Elixir
Lysiron Drops (NRJET)
Lysivit/Drops
Lysivit/Syrup
Lysol Special/Liquid
Lysol/Liquid
Lysovit/Tablets
"M"
Macalvit/Syrup
Maclean Brand Indigetion Powder
Macraberin Forte (GLAXO)
Madhu Prash
Madhurin/Tablets/Drops
Page 49/105
----- PAGE 50 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Madhu Tab./Tablets
Magaffin/Liquid
Mag-Mag
Magnadyn (PFIMEX)
Magnolax/Liquid
Magnine/Tablets
Magnomint/Liquid/Tablets
Manix (WOCKHARD)
Manoll (CHARAK)
Malaria Mixture
Malodin/Liquid
Malteen/Liquid
Maltinee/Liquid
Maltiviron/Liquid
Maltodex/Powder
Maltofer/Liquid
Maltomin/Liquid
Maltorix/Liquid
Malt and Vt. A Compound/Liquid
Maltmiol/Liquid'
Manadol/Liquid/Tablets
Manavit/Tablets
Mangal Balm
Mangal Malam
Manhar Gripe Water
Manner's Gripe Mixture
Manner's Health Sale/Liquid
Manoll/Jelly/Tablets
Marlin/Liquid
Martin's Antiseptic Cream
Martin's Balm
Martin's lodin Ointment
Martin's Malt with Vit. A
Martin's Prickly Heat Powder
Martin's Limiment
Marvita/Liquid
Mary - Sulf - Sulphonated Hair Shampoo
Master Balm
Matrifort
Maxamin/Forte/Capsules
Maxirin Cap. (UNIVERSAL GENERICS)
Mayfer (MAYO)
M.B. Dex/Ointment
Mecholin/Liquid
Mechosito/Liquid
Mecolin Plain/Liquid
Medi Creme/Cream
Medidrops/Drops
Medilysin/Liquid
Medimalt/Liquid
Mediphos/Liquid
Page 50/105
----- PAGE 51 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Meditab/Tablets
Medivit/Caspsules
Medizyme/Capsules
Medicated Tooth Powder
Medomalt/Liquid
Memorax (BAIDYANATH)
Mendaco
Mendine/Ointment
Mendo Asoka/Elixir
Mendo - Diasine/Liquid
Mendo - Gastrin/Liquid
Mendo - Sarsae/Liquid
Mendo - Liver/Liquid
Mendo - Valerian/Liquid
Mendo - Vine/Liquid
Menofel/Tablets
Menogen/Liquid
Mentat Tab/Liquid (HIMALAYA)
Mento - Rub/Balm
Mercoplex/Forte/Liquid/Capsules
Merocovite/Forte/Tablets/Syrups/
Capsules
Meridol/Elixir
Merilax/Tablets
Merimalt/Tablets
Meriphosmin/Elixir
Mersina/Tablets
Merizyme/Tablets
Metadrops/Drops
Metalin/Oroa I/Liquid
Metatone/Liquid
Metavine Compound/Liquid
Methicol/Syrup
Methicol/Liquid
Methidex/Ointment
Methiliod/Powder
Methischol/Capsules/Syrup
Methonine with Choline/Syrup
Methionin with Choline Syrup/Syrup
Methiozol/Liquid
Methizol Pediatric/Syrup
Methylsalicvlate/Ointment/Liniment
Metules/Capsules
Microfer/Liquid
Milkane. H./Ointment
Milkan Paste
Milkan Shark Liver Oil Ointment
Miikan Sulphanilamide/Ointment
Milken Sulpher Lotion
Milk Digest/Tablets
Milk of Mangnesia (Manufactured by Various Company)/Liquid/Suspension/ Tablets
Page 51/105
----- PAGE 52 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Milkomag/Tablets/Liquid
Milton Antibacterial Soln.
Minadex/Syrup
Minadin (Minadin)/Syrup
Minaferrol with Vit.E/Liquid
Minaphos/Syrup
Minavit/Capsules
Minavitol/Syrup
Minigadine (RAPTAKOS)
Miniplex/Drops
Minitone Plus (UNIVERSAL MEDICAMENTS)
Minogen (MPI)
Minolad/Syrup
Minotone/Luquid
Mintab/Tablets
Mint Cold and Pain Relief/Liquid
Mintee Mouth Wash
Minzana/Powder
Miproten (PCI)
Mittavin/Capsules
Mivets/Tablets
Mivets - G/Tablets
Modex/Ointment
Molivex Plain/Compound/Liquid
Monobevine/Syrup
Morris Stomach Cure/Liquid
Moritone/Liquid
M - 2 Tone/Liquid
Mucibael/Granules
Mukta Cordial/Liquid
Mulmin Cap (JUGGAT)
Multi Bay (BAYER)
Multibion/Drops/Syrup/Tablets .
Meltidec/Liquid
Multi - Drops/Drops
Multi Fol - 12/Forte/Liqusules
Multilysine/Syrup
Multimalt/Liquid
Multimin/Drops
Multindomin/Tablets
Multiplon/Capsules
Multiplon - M/Capsules
Multisham/Capsules
Multitonik/Liquid
Multiviflor/Drops
Multivir/Drops/Capsules
Multivin Frote/Capsules
Multivit/Drops
Multivitamin/Tablets/Drops/Liquid/ Capsules/Syrup (of all Companies)
Multivitamin with Lysine/Drops
Multivitamin Plex Forte/Capsules
Page 52/105
----- PAGE 53 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Multivitamin/Tablets
Multivitaplex Frote/Elixir/Tablets/Drops/ Capsules
Multivite/Pallets/Drops/Tablets
Multivitonic/Syrup
Multizyme/Liquid
Mum-Deodorant/Cream
Mustong (TTK)
Myadec/Kapseal (MYADEC/KAPSEALS)
Mycol/Tablets
Mynberrys Compound/Liquid
Myron/Tablets
Myvitel/Syrup
"N"
Naniks Amoti Ointment/Oil
Nature Care (DABUR)
Naphamalt/Syrup
Naphavit/Drops
Nardyl/Tablets
Naresol Nasal/Drops
Narvinol/Liquid
Naturolax (INFAR)
Natles/Elixir/Tablets
Niqicap (INFAR)
Navi - B - Fol/Syrup
Navicad/Tablets/Syrup
Naviglobin/Syrup
Naviminol/Drops/Syrup
Navinules/Capsules
Navitol Malt Compound
Navzol/Tablets
Necophos/Liquid
Nectalax/Tablets
Nactarine/Oil
Nectarine Pearls
Nectarine Pearls with Vitamins and Hormons/Tablets
Ned/Tablets
Neko Soap
Nembolin/Tablets
Neo/Tablets
Neo - Calcin/Elixir
Neo - Cordial/Liquid/Injection
Neo - Epinine Nos. 1 and 2/Spray
Neo - Ferilex/Caps/Liquid
Neo - Ferilex/Liquid/Cap. (RALLIS)
Neo - Gastrozyme/Liquid
Neo - Fortindon/Tablets
Neogadine/Elixir
Neogadine Sulphoguaiacolated/Liquid
Neo - Gynergen/Tablets
Neo - Hematina/Syrup
Neokim/Syrup
Page 53/105
----- PAGE 54 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Neo - Proteen (Powder/Liquid)
Neovitacaps Forte/Capsules
Neoviton/Capsules
Neozyme/Tablets
Nerviton (ALEMBIC)
Nervo - Plex/Injection
Netra Gulab/Liquid
Neurolac (RESQU)
Nerolecithin/Syrup
Neuragen (INDOFRENCH)
Neuro - Phosphate/Liquid
Neuro Phosphate Elixir (ESKAYEF)
Neuroson - 12/Liqyid
Neurotone/Liquid
Neurotop (UNIVERSAL GENERICS)
Nevoss/Tablets
Nevrovitamine - 4 - 'A' - 'C'/Tablets/Granuls
Newcordial/Liquid
New Esdavite/Tablets
Nips Cough Drops
Nutri Malt
Nixoderm/Ointment
Nokuff/Ceodeine and Ephidrine/Syrup/ Liquid
Nopaih/Liquid
Nopin/Balm
Normvit/Syrup
Nourison/Capsules
Novozyme/Tablets/Liquid
Nuasoka/Liquid
Nucitron/Liquid
Nucol/Liquid
Nucompound/Liquid
Nuferon/Liquid
Nuhem/Liquid
Numerovits/Drops/Capsules
Numin/Liquid
Numin Forte/Liquid
Nutribeal - S (NUTRIT)
Nutrifil/Liquid
Nutrifil (UNIVERSAL GENERICS)
Nutrima/Tabs./Syrup
Nititone Powder
Nutriplex/Elixir
Nutriplox Forte/Syrup/Caps.
Nutriplon/Liquid
Nutrisan/Caps.
Nutrolin - B/Caps,
Nutrdlin 'B'/Tablets/Caps.
(CIPLA CHEMO PHARMA)
Nutrolin - B Syrup/Capsule (CIPLA)
Nutrolysate/Liquid
Page 54/105
----- PAGE 55 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Nutrotone/Oral/Liquid
Nutrozym/Caps.
Nycil/Powder
"O"
Obenyl
Ojus/Tablets/Liquid
Okasa/Tablets (Silver/Gold)
Okay Pills No XXX
O.K. Malt/Liquid
Olivine Massage Oil
Olpro (LYKA)
Olosyn/Oil
Omilcal (FRANCOINDIA)
Omilcal - F/Suspension
Omin/Liquid
One A day Caps
One Be (LUPIN)
Opical Xll/Syrup
Opical - D/Tab.
Opidex/Ointment
Opilax/Tablets
Opil Gripe Mixture
Opil Pain Balm
Opimalt/Liquid
Opivitol/Tablets
Opizyme/Syrup
Opilets Film/Tablet
Orhettal/Liquid
Orheptal (MERCK)
Orivite Forte/Drops/Syrup/Capsules
Orzyme/Liquid
Orliver/Capsules/Liquid
Ortho Applicator
Orucylin/Tablets
Ollervit/Liquid
Osifort - F/Plain
(INTEGRATED BIO - SYSTEM)
Osifort - HS
Cap (INTEGRATED BIO - SYSTEM)
Ossidos (WOCKHARD)
Ossevite Cap (WYETH)
Ossopan (TTK)
Ossopan/Tablets
Oster Milk/Dried Milk
Ostocal (CIUMTAB)
Ostocalcium B - 12 Liquid (GLAXO)
Osrocare (APPLE)
Ostomalt/Liquid
Ovimaliq
Ovoterin/Liquid
Ovolutolin/Liquid
Page 55/105
----- PAGE 56 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Ovoutoline (ZANDU)
"P"
P - Zyme (GAYATRI)
Pabaplex/Liquid
Panchan Sudha/Powder
Painaprin/Tablets
Pain Balm/Ointment
Pain Destroyer/Liquid
Painex/Tablets
Painicure/Ointment
Paintex/Liquid
Paladac/Liquid
Palamin/Plain/Drops
Palamin Compound/Liquid
Pallrywyn/Forte/Tablets
Palymin/Liquid/Drops
Pamantak/Ointment
Panacaedam/Elixir
Panacod/Liquid
Panaferon/Liquid
Panacordial/Liquid
Panamin/Liquid
Panazyme/Liquid
Panaminos/Liquid
Panadex/Ointment
Panaplex Forte/Liquid
Panavine/Liquid
Panoplex B - 12/Elixir
Panovin/Compound Plain/C
Gauiacol and Creosote/Liquid/Elixir
Panteen Vitamin Hair Tonic
Panvit/Drops/Tablets
Panzynorm/Dragees
Papu Cough and Throat Tabs./Tablets
Papu Gripe Water
Papu Inhaler
Papulax/Tablets
Papu Ointment
Papu Pain Balm/Balm
Papyta Forte/Liquid/Tablets
Paragol/Emulasion
Paralytol/Liquid
P^suma Strong/Tablet/Injection
Pavitin/Elixir
Pacivit/Tablets
Pearl Tone (INDCHEMIE)
Pediatrin/Elixir/Drops
Pedilax Milk/Liquid
Pediplon/Drops
Pedivit/Drops
Pedivitm./Capsules
Page 56/105
----- PAGE 57 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Pedrix/Syrup
Pekavit Forte/Capsules
Pencilin Lozenges
Penorub with M.S./Ointment
Penotrane Dusting/Powder
Penotrane Pessaries/Tablets
Penotrane Tincture/Liquid
Penovan/Liquid
Pentavite (VICHOLAS)
Penzime/Tablets
Peomalt/Liquid
Pepadiastase/Liquid
Pepco/Elixir
Pepco with Morphine/Elixir
Pep Diystase/Liquid
Pepfiz Tab. (RAINBAXY)
Pepliver/Liquid
Pepol/Tablets
Pepsi Digestive Compound
Pepsinozyme/Liquid
Pepsiplex/Tablets
Pepsomirin/Tablets/Liquid
Pepsol/Liquid
Peptide (ETHIMED)
Perchcal (PERCH)
Pericalvit/Suspension
Pericordial/Syrup
Peridex/Syrup
Periplex with Enzymes/Syrup/Capsules
Perivite/Drops
Perlivite/Capsules
Periferon/Syrup
Pernavit/Dragees/Syrup
Pesulin/Suspension
Pesulin - O/Suspension
Petrolagar/Forte/Plain/Suspension
Phenocalcine/Tablets
Philips Milk of Magnesia/Tablets/Liquid
Phi/Powder
Phosopho Bl/Tablets
Phosphokern/Liquid
Phosphomecithin/Liquid
Phosfomin/Liquid (PHOSFOMIN)
Phosfomin - Cum - Iron/Liquid
Phosphoton/Oral/Liquid
Phosphovitamin/Liquid
Picfplex/Elixir
Picivit/Drops/Elixir
Pilex/Ointment/Tablets
Pilzano/Pills
Pinotab/Tablets
Page 57/105
----- PAGE 58 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Piparid/Tablets
Pipex/Tablets
Piya Multi Vit/Tablets
Planitab/Ovules
Plastets/Tablets
Plastules/Liv./Cap./Folic/Caps./B - 12/ Cap./Elixir
Plebex/Elixir
Plex/Liquid
Polasta/Poultic
Polivol/Liquid
Poly - B (LARK)
Poly - B - Complex/B - 12/Syrup
Poly - B - Complex with Vit. C/Liquid/Syrup/Tablets
Polybin/Drops/Syrup
Polybin (MERCK)
Polyvitamin/Tablets
Polyvit - 9/Tablets
Polyvit/Drops
Polyvit/Drops/Syrup/Tablets
Polyvit - 11/Caps.
Polyvitamin/Drops/Tablets/Syrup
(ALL COMPANIES)
Polyvitamin/Tablets
Polyvitamin Prophylactic/Tablets
Polyvitamin Therapieutic/Tablets
Poly - Vit - Calcium/Syrup/Tablets
Polyvit Hepar/Liquid
Poly - Vit - Heper with Folicacid
B - 12/Liquid
Polyvitin - M/Tablets
Posex/Forte/Pills
Potenza/Pills
Power Pills/Pills
Premilets/Tablets
Preceptin/Contraceptive Gel
Pregniton/Tablets
Prenale (SPENPHARMA)
Prenatal/Capsules
Prenex/Capsules
Prickly Heat Powder
Primobrom/Liquid
Premocod/Liquid
Primopect Forte/Liquid
Primophos/Liquid
Primoples/Liquid
Primovit/Drops
Primozyme/Liquid
Primozyme (PHYTO)
Procasenol/Granules
Probofex (WOCKHARD)
Proflex (UNIMED)
Page 58/105
----- PAGE 59 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Prolifex/Syrup/Tablets
Prolita (LITIKA)
Prolypo/Liquid
Prolysin (ASTHA)
Promolan/Powder
Pronit (SRESAN)
Pronit Drop (SRESAN)
Pronit - Lac (SRESAN)
Pronotrin (CFL PHARMA)
Prorocal Plus (EMCURE)
Prosan (SANDOZ)
Protanto (HIGOCHI)
Protein Hydrolysate/Liquid
Prote - 12/Powder
Protex (CATALIQ)
Proteus Powder
Protimino/Liquid
Protiex/Powder
Protinex/Powder
Protinozyme/Liquid
Protinules/Powder
Protobex (CENTAUR)
Protocasetin/Powder
Protodol (DOLPHIN)
Protodol/Liquid
Protogen/Powder
Protoglobin (RESQUE DRUGS)
Protolysate Forte/Liquid
Protone/Liquid
Protop (ZENITA)
Protostan - Z (SOL)
Protovit/Drops/Tablets protovinl/Liquid
Protozyme/Liquid
Provita/Powder
Provitex/Powder
Ptychotis/Tablets
Ptychosoda/Tablets
Ptycho Soda Co./Tablets
Ptychozyme/Elixir
Protex - 12/Powder
Proteus Powder
Pudin Hara/Liquid
Pulimocod Plain/with Greosote and Guajacol
Pulnon/Liquid
Pulmocod (STADMED)
Pulmotone Plain/Liquid
Pulmotone Codeine/Liquid
Pulmovit/Liquid
Pulv Bonkolo/Powder
Pumilet/Tablets
Purilla/Liquia
Page 59/105
----- PAGE 60 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Purity lodian Barley
Pushcal - 12/Syrup
Pushgynol/Liquid
Pushron/Syrup/Drops
Pustin/Powder
Pushtina/Tablets
Pushvit/Syrup
Pushvit with Lysine/Drops
Pushzyme/Syrup
Pyorin/Liquid
Pyorina/Powder
Pyorin Special/Liquid
Pyorex/Liquid
Pyrinol/Liquid
Pyrohaemin/Liquid
"Q"
Qinodex/Liquid
Qixo/Tablets
Queen's Balm
Queen's Balomrit/Liquid
Queen's Cough Syrup
Qeen's Gripe Water
Quino - Haemogen/Syrup
Quinolivon/Liquid
Quino Plasmol/Strong/Liquid
Quinosol/Liquid
Quinotone/Liquid
Quito Cream
"R"
R. Compound/Tablets
Rakto Phospho Malt/Liquid
Ralgertone/Dragees
Ralvitamin/Dragees
Ramadex Iodine Methyl Oint.
Ramban Ague Mixture
Ramban Amrit Mixture
Ramban Balamrit/Liquid
Ramban Liniment
Ramban Milk of Magnesia/Liquid
Ramban Pain Balm
Ramban Peppermint Co./Liquid
Ramban Ringworm Lotion
Ramban Skin Oint.
Ramban Toothache Drops
Ramban Pain Killer/Liquid/Drops/ Ointment/Lotion
Rampen Gripe Mixtures/Liquid
Rampen's Gynomaz/Liquid
Ranferon - 12/Elixir
Ranvit/'Elixir/Cap.
Ranvitol/Syrup/Caps.
Raptakos Powder/Drops/Ointment/ Lotion
Page 60/105
----- PAGE 61 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Raricai/Suspension/Tablets
Rasgent/Powder
Rapsovin (Raptakos)
Raricap/Raricap - L (ETHNOR)
R.B. Glue/Capsules
R.B. Tone/Syrup/Elixir
Ribtone (MEDLEY)
R.C.K./Tablets
Recolvin/Liquid
Recolvin with Aresnic/Liquid
Recosen/Tablets
Redin (FOURTS)
Rediplex Cespi Industries
Reditone (BLUE CROSS)
Redoxon Tab. (ROCAE)
Regulax Mild/Tablets
Regulax Pill Strong/Pills
Rejucalcium/Liquid
Remorin/lnjection
Rennie/Tablets
Renno Pepsin/Liquid
Renovan/Liquid
Revital/Capsul/Syrup (RANBEXY)
Richpro (LARK)
Richzyme (LARK)
Ricketin/Drops
Ring Cutter/Liquid
Ring Ring/Ointment
Ringworm Lotion
Ringworm Ointment
Ripanto/Ointment
Ripason/Tablets
Rivizin/Tablets
Robinson's Patent Barley
Robinson's Pearl Barely
Rocbury/Capsules
Rocfer/Elixir
Roofer M. F./Tablets
Rocvite/Forte/Elixir/Drops/Capsules
Rololerol/Liquid
Rololax/Tablets
Roloplex/Syrup
Roloplex - S - Forte/Tablets/Syrup
Rolovit/Drops/Tablets
Rolovit Forte/Tablets/Liquid/Drops
Rolozyme/Liquid
Rolysine B - 12/Liquid
Ron/V - Plex (Shreekrishna)
Rosalin/Linement
Rosiron (ORD)
Rosy Capsules (ARMOUR)
Page 61/105
----- PAGE 62 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Rovigon (ROCHE)
Royal Elpha/Tablets
Royol Otolin Eye Drops
Royopilla/Pills
R - Palryn/Tablets
Rubex/Ointment
Rubical - D/Tablets
Rubica! - D - with Lysine/Syrup
Rubimalt/Ointment
Rubipepsin/Liquid
Rubivitta/Liquid
Rubracal/D/Syrup/Tablets
Rubiracaldin/Syrup
Rubragran HP (SAPABHAI)
Rubraplex/Elixir/Tablets
Rubr - on/Elixir
Rubraton paediatric/Elixir
Rubravit/Capsules
Ruby - 1/Drops/Liquid/Tablets
Rubylysine/Drops
Rubzone/Ointment
Ruma - Heal/Tablets
Rumalaya/Tablets/Cream
Rumatone/Pills
Rumofren/Tablets/Cream
R - VIT - D - 2/Granules
Rymany/Tablets
"S"
Saccharine/Tablets/ (all companies)
Sachharine Sodium/Tablets
Safez (Prizn) Safi (HAMDARD)
Sahna Oil Comp.
Saldigestin/Powder
Sulphos/Tablets
Salt Tabs.
Salvizol/Lozenges
Sanguligen/Syrup
Saniline/Liquid
Sanimalt/Liquid
Sanividol/Liquid
Santevini/Liquid
Santiveni (SANDOZ)
Sanvitone (AKIN)
Sahzyme/Tab./Liquid (UNISANKYO)
Sarphorex/Liquid
Satavarex (ZANDU)/Satizyne Capsule (Time Lab.)
Savlon Antiseptic/Liquid/Cream/ Lozenges
Savouryn/Granules
Sebolin (SMITH and KENNER)
Sedatin/Liquid
Sedival/Liquid
Page 62/105
----- PAGE 63 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Selachomalt/Liquid
Selective Mixed Cholectitis Cystitis Vaccine
Selsun/Suspension/Sampoo
Semits Milk of Magnesia/Tablets
Senalax/Tablets
Senolax/Granuels/Tablets
Sensa Herb (VILOC)
Senzine/Tablets SENSA SUPRCVRCO
Sensur Ointment (LYKA)
Sepex/Dusting Powder
Septilin/Tablets
Sero Bismozyme/Liquid
Sero Bromides/Liquid
Sero Citrate Pulv/Powder
Sero - Compound/Liquid
Sero Gripe Water
Sero Salt Pulv/Powder
Sero Sulphazyme/Powder
Serotone/Liquid
Serpina/Tablets
Serpinol Compound/Tablets
Sioplex Enzymes/Liquid
Sioplex - Lysine/Elixir
Siotrat Liquid
Siovina/Oral/Liquid
Siozyme/Tablets
Shakti Rasyan/Tablets
Sharkoferrol/Liquid
Sharko Maltone/Liquid
Sharkomalt/Liquid
Sharkovit/Liquid
Shelcal (ELDER)
Sheri Carnis/Liquid
Shilajit (DABUR) Siderfol (RAPTAKOS)
Sider Plex Drop (RAPTAKOS)
Siledine/Tablets
Silver Pain Balm
Sapera/Mild/Tablets
Sapera Forte/Tablets
Sarbyna/Tablets
Saribadina/Liquid
Siriprotin - V/Granules
Siris Asmasedin/Liquid/Tablets
Siris Cardial/Tablets
Siris Inhaler
Sirimalt/Syrup
Sirivita/Syrup/Tablets
Sirivital/Capsules
Sirolex/Liquid
Sishuda/Tablets
Sixapp (FRACO INDIAN)
Page 63/105
----- PAGE 64 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Six - C/Ointment
Skelimin/Elixir
Skinment/Ointment
Slimerex/Powder
Solan's/Balm/Liniment
Soda Ginga - Mint Tabs./Tablets
Sodamint (ALL COMPANIES)/Tablets
Softvac (LUPIN)
Solupan/Syrup
Solu - Resorcinol/Hair Tonic
Somapan/Liquid
Spmizyme/Liquid
Sooktyn/Tablets
Sorbalka/Liquid
Sorbilex/Liquid
Sorvicin Tab./Drops
(EAST INDIA)
Spasma/Liquid Spasmoiine/Liquid Special Cholera Tab.
Speman (HIMALAYAN)
Speman/Forte/Tablets
Spergen/Tablets
Spermatone/Liquid
Spogel - Co/Powder
Spolax/Granules
Sporolac/Tab./Powder
(UNISANKYO)
Spr Compound/Liquid
S - Pyric/Tablets
Stanavit/Tablets/Drops
Stamazyme/Elixir
Standatone/Liquid
Stanlavit/Liquid
Stanlazyme/Liquid
Stanzyme/Emulsion/Liquid
Stimulive (FRANCO INDIAN)
Stk's Gripe Water
Sindol Pain Balm/Ointment
Sindol/Liquid
Sioplex Li/Spine (ALBERT DAVID)
Siotone (ALBERT DAVID)
Sirifolin/Liquid
Stk's Thio - D - Calcium/Tablets
Stk's Thio - Kof, with Vit, A and D/Syrup
Stk's Toothache Drops
Stomach Cure/Liquid (All COMPANIES)
Stomax/Liquid
Stopache/Tablets
Strepsils/Lozenges
Stress Capsules/Tablets/Capsul/Liquid (LEDRIE)
Styflon/Tablets
Sucaryl Tablets
Page 64/105
----- PAGE 65 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Sucksee/Chewable/Tablets
Sucrets/Lozenges
Sucromint/Lozenges
Sulfasen/lnjection
Sulphaiodobael/Powder
Sulphonex/Pills
Su - Mag/Granules/Powder
Sunmalt/Syrup
Sunplex/Syrup
Sunways Gripe Water
Supari Pak/Powder
Super Forte/Tablets
Superneo Cod/Elixir
Super - Plex/Liquid
Supradyn/Capsule/Tablet
Suprazyme/Tablets
Surart Jani/Tablets
Surbex T./Tab./Cap./Liquid (ABBOT)
Surakta (BAIDYANATH) Surje (WANDER)
Swapanahari/Tablets
Sweetaril/Tablets/Liquid
Sweetex/Liquid/Pellets
Sweetin/Liquid/Tablets
Synavit/Tablets
Synveg/Tabiets
Syrofig/Liquid
Syrup Hypophosp Hite of Lime
Syrup of Orange
Syrup of Figs
Syrup Tuisi - Calcil
Syrup Tulsi Vasaka
Syrup Vasaka with Hypoanotolu
Systavit (INTERGRATED
BIOSYSTEMICS)
Syiol/Liquid
Syu/Powder/Protin/Granules
"T"
Tag (AARON)
Take Combex/Elixir
Take Combex/Kapseal/Taka Diastase/ Liquid/Tablets
Taka Diastase and Pepsin Co./Tablets
Takazyme/Powder
Tandem Forte (INVINEX)
Taxine/Tablets
Teething Syrup
Teenapain/Tablets
Tefroli/Tab/Liquid (TTK)
Tentex/Forte/Tablets
Tentex Forte (HIMALAYAN DROP)
Tenophos/Liquid
Testophos/Dragees
Page 65/105
----- PAGE 66 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Testmosol/Solution/Soap
Theragran/Tablets/Drops/Capsule/
Syrup
Theragran - M/Tablets/Capsule
There Graniquidi Drop (SARABHAI)
Thia - Calcinex/Syrup
Thio - Feral/Liquid
Thioflu/Syrup
Thiolax/Tablets
Thiolin/Syrup
Thiophosmin/Liquid
Thiovita/Tablets/Capsules
Thiozyme/Liquid
Thirty Plus (AJANTA)
Threptin/Biscu its/pieces
Threption - Hi - Cal/Pieces
Throat Paint/Liquid
Thymocin/Liquid
Thyro - Gum/Paint
Thyrol/Liquid
Tila Sultan/Liniment
To/Cofer (TORRENT)
Tfonablin Liquid (UNIVERSAL MEDICAMENTS)
Tonavit/Liquid
Toniozyme/Syrup/Tablets
Toniazol (BOERHRINGER).
Toniazol/Liquid
Tonic Indon/Liquid
Tonirin/Capsules
Tono Flood With Mercury and Arsenic/ Liquid
Towiron (BHARAT SALT)
Tonocarnine Forte/Syrup
Tonoferon/Syrup/Drops
Tono Liver/Liquid
Tono Malt/Liquid
Tonophos
Tonophospan
Tonophospotone
Tonos - 7/Elixir
Tonoron/Elixir
Tonozime/Liquid
Tonup/Liquid
Toothache Drops
Toothache Remedy/Liquid
Tooth Drops
Totalin - B/Syrup/Liquid
Tox/Tablets
Track/Powder
Tranqunyl/Tablets
Trical - D/Tablets/Syrup
Trifalco/Powder
Page 66/105
----- PAGE 67 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Triflue/Tablets
Trikocid/Ovules
Trinergic Capsules (SIDMAK)
Trisoliv (MEDEPLEY)
Trophamin/Powder
Triphoson/Liquid
Triveng (HERBOLAB)
Trophox/Powder
Tropistat/Tablets
Trox/Lozenges
Tryzym/Tablets
Totone/Tablets
Tuberex Forte/Tablets
Tulsi Compound/Oil
Tulsi Cough Syrup
Tumease Dalton
Turpentine Ointment
Turai - Co/Tablets
Twinali/Liquid
Tyrozets/Lozenges
Tysicof/Syrup/Lozenges
Tysma/Tablets
Tysobin/Elixir
"U"
Udidex/Ointment
Udidex with MS/Ointment
Udimalt/Liquid
Uni - Enzyme/Tablets/Elixir
Unipiron Forte/Liquid
Uni - Protin/Salty Briskies Powder
Universal's Compound/Liquid
Univine/Liquid
Univine with Protein/Liquid
Univite/Tablets/Drops/Syrup
Univite with Choline/Syrup
Unizyme/Syrup
Unizyme Liquid (UNICHEM)
Urexynol/Tablets
Uri Protein/Powder
Urodonal/Granules
Urtiplex/Tablets
Utatone/Liquid
Uterol/Liquid
Uteron/Liquid
Uteronol/Liquid
Utizyme/liquid/Tablets
Utretone Famina/Liquid
Utrex/Liquid
Utrotone/liquid
Utrosedine/Syrup
"V"
Page 67/105
----- PAGE 68 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Vaculax/Tablets
Valerin Bromide/Liquid
Vapodex/Ointment
Vapodex Iodine with M.S./Ointment
Vapoline/Ointment
Vaps Balamrit/Liquid
Vaps Gripe Water/Liquid
Vaps Pain Balm
Vaps Ringworm/Ointment
Vasaka/Liquid
Vasaka Throat Tablets
Vaps Balamrit/Liquid
Vasaksar/Liquid
Vegecort/Tablets/Ointment
Veganin/Tablets
Vegetable Laxative/Tablets
Veritol/Liquid
Vermicide/Tablets
Viacal/Liquid/Drops
Vi - Andro/Capsules
Vibegan with Lecithin and Glycero - Phosphatase/Liquid
Vibegan with Diastase/Syrup
Vibinut Liquid (UNIQUE CHEMICALS)
Vibiton/Liquid
Vicarin/Liquid
Vicks Formula 44 Cough Drops Vicks Inhaler
Vicks Medicated Cough Drops
Vicks Vaporub
Vidaylin/Syrup
Vidaylin/Drops
Vidaylin - M - Syrup
Vidrops/Liquid
Vi - Estandro/Capsules
Vi - Estrin/Capsules
Vigorini/Ointment
Vigoroll Special/Pill/Jelly
Vigotab/Tablets
Vicco Tonic (VICCO LAB)
Viliron/Liquid
Vililiv Coniversal Medicament's
Vi - Magna/Capsules/Drops/Syrup
Vima - Tone/Liquid
Vimgram/Tablets
Vimisules/Capsules
Vimix/Drops/Tablets/Syrup (VIMX)
Vimolas Exemol/Skin Ointment
Vinkola - 12/Liquid
Vinkola with Vitamins/Liquid
Vino Asoka/Liquid
Vinoberrys Compound/Red with Vitamins/Liquid
Vino Cod with Cheosote/Gualacol/
Page 68/105
----- PAGE 69 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Liquid
Vinodex/Liquid
Vinola/Liquid
Vino - Lecethin/Liquid
Vino - Malts/Syrup
Vinotone Liquid
Vinotone with Asoka/Liquid
Vipex/Balm
Vipro - FE (GUFFIC)
Viprozin (LIVIN)
' Virpholin/Syrup
Vl - Syneral/Adult/Capsules/Liquid
Vl - Syneral Vitamin/Drops
Vitabiol/Elixer
Vitabs/Tablets
Vitacal - D (CATALIO)
Vitacom - Lysins (STADMED)
Vitacom/Plain/Forte/Syrup
Vitadex/Liquid
Vitadiline with Lysine/Drops Vitadilin Liq.
Vita - Ex (BAIDYANATH)
Vitafer (VITABHOTIC)
Vitafex/Tablets
Vitahext/Liquid
Vital Essence/Tablets
Vitalsine/Syrup
Vitalact (SHREE KRISHNA)
Viatlyf Cap. (TIME LAB)
Vitalysin/Elixir/Drops
Vitalysine/Liquid
Vitamalt/Liquid
Vitamina/Liquid
Vitamindon A and E/Syrup
Viataminets Forte/Tablets
Vitamiron Drops
Vitaminised Sanatogen/Powder
Vitamulsion/Syrup
Vita Orange/Syrup
Viatpan Tablets
Vitaped Paediatric/Drops
Vitapepsin/Liquid
Vitaphosmin/Liquid
Vitaphor/Liquid
Vitaplus/Capsules
Vitazyme/Liquid
Vitazyme Drops (EAST INDIA)
Vitcofol (FDC)
Viterra/Capsules
Vitmol Compound/Elixir
Vitoferen/Liquid
Vitol/Drops/Syrup
Page 69/105
----- PAGE 70 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Vitomalt/Liquid
Viton '99'/Syrup
Vitop/Syrup
Vitrona/Liquid
Vomectil/Tablets
Vomilak/Tablets
Vomiteb/Tablets/Syrup
Vysex/Drops
Vyzylac (UNICHEM)
"W"
Waterbury's Compound/Liuqid
Waterbury's Vit Compound/Liquid
Waxolve/Ear Drops
Wellcome Lanoline Toilet/Tubes
Wellcome Seltzer Tabs.
Whipfx/Liquid
Wiltax Ringworm Ointment
Winheparb - 12/Plain/Liquid
Wino Brona/Liquid
Winocarnis/Liquid
Winofit Ginseng (WOEKHARD)
Winofit/Elixir
Winominos/Liquid
Worm Tabs.
Wymin/Capsules
"X"
XXX Tablets
Xymex/Liquid
Xymex Liquid (MEDEEY)
"Y"
Yeastmin/Liquid
Yura/Liquid
"Z"
Zambuk Herbal Ointment
Zandu Balm
Zefs/Tablets
Zenter Cap. (NOEL)
Zentolive/Oil
Zestol/Liquid
Zevit Cap. (ESKAYEF)
Zinoovit (APEX)
Zivinal (SIDMAK)
Zuplex/Syrup
Zuvitab/Tablets
Zuvimalt/Liquid
Zyme - Bio/Liquid
Zymomalt/Syrup
Zymotone/Liquid/Tablets
Zynora (HIGUCHI)
Note - Cost of dressing materials like bandages, Cotton, guages, and such other items may be allowed for
reibmursement when the patient received treatment as an indoor patient and these are not supplied by the Hospital free
Page 70/105
----- PAGE 71 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
of cost.
(G.O. No. 41416 (26) - H; dated the 22nd December, 1978.)
No. 26888 - H.
Government Of Orissa
Health and Family Planning Department
Resolution
The 23rd November. 1977
Subject - Reimbursement of the cost of Ayurvedic and Homoeopathic Medicines under O.S. (M.A.) Rules.
Treatment under Indian Systems of medicines and Homoeopathy has already been recognised by the Government of
India and some of the State Governments and treatment under these systems has also been brought within the purview
of the O.S. (M.A.) Rules. The question of according recognition to the above systems of medicines in so far as medical
attendance and treatment of State Government servants and members of their families under provisions of O.S. (M.A.)
Rules are concerned was under the consideration of Government for some time past.
2. After careful consideration, the Governor has been pleased to extend the scope as detailed hereunder :
(a)
The Ayurvedic Hospital, G.A.M., Puri, Ayurvedic Hospital, New Capital, Ayurvedic Hospital, Balangir, Homoeopathic
Hospital attached to the Homoeopathic Medical College, New Capital and the Cooperative Homoeopathic Medical
College Hospital, Berhampur are declared as the recognised medical institution for the purpose of treatment and
reimbursement of the cost of medicines to the Government servants and the members of their families.
(b)
The Superintendent or Deputy Superintendents and Senior Kavirajs of those Hospitals mentioned at (a) above are
declared as the Authorised Medical Attendants. The cost of medicines shall be reimbursed either on the prescription of
those A.M. As. or on the prescription of any other Medical Officer of the aforesaid institutions duly countersigned by the
Superintendent/Deputy Superintendent of the said institutions. Essentiality certificates duly signed alongwith the printed
Cash Memos., should be furnished to the concerned authorities for the purpose of reimbursement.
(c)
The list of Ayurvedic and Homoeopathic Medicines admissible for reimbursement are attached as in Annexures 'A' and
'B'.
(d)
This list of Ayurvedic Pharmacies as approved under this Scheme is attached as in Annexure *C'.
3. This will take effect from the date of the issue of the order.
Annexure - A
List of medicines to be reimbursed
Arishata and Asava
1. Amrutarista
2. Abhayarista
3. Ashokarista
4. Arabindasava
5. Ashwagandharista
6. Ahiphenasava
7. Palarista
8. Pidangarista (sava)
9. Chandanasava
10. Drakshyarista (sava)
11. Dasamularista (Kasturi)
12. Jirakdyarista
13. Kutajarista
14. Khadirarista
15. Kumaryasava
16.
karpurasava
Page 71/105
----- PAGE 72 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
17.
Lauhasava
18.
Lodhasava
19.
Mustakarista
20.
Parpatarista
21.
Punanavarista
22.
Parthadyarista
23.
Patarangasava
24.
Pippalyasava
25.
Rohitakarista
26.
Saribdyasava (Rista/salsa)
27.
Sarasw'atarista
28.
Ushirasava
29.
Kanakasava
Arka
1. Ajamodarka
2. Jamani darka
3. Karpurarista
4. Mahasankha Dravak
5. Podina Arka
Abaleha and Paka
1. Amabats Gajendra Singha Modaka
2. Amalaki Khanda
3. Ardhaka Khanda
4. Aswagandharista
5. Br. Pasabaleha
6. Byaghri Haritaki
7. Br. Haridrakhanda
8. Br. Methimodak
9. Br. Teerakadi Modak
10. Bhuktapaka Modak
11. Br. Lavangadi Modak
12. Chayaban Pras
13. Gudapippali
14. Haridakhanda
15. Hrudayabirochanaleha
16. Haratakikhanda
17. Kushababaleha
18. Kutajabaleha
Page 72/105
----- PAGE 73 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
19. Maha Rasona Pinda
20. Narikelakhanda
21. Pipalikhanda
22. Sarbajwarahara Leha
23. Siva Gutika
24. Suranabaleha
25. Saubhagya Sunthikhanda
26. Sasanka Kuran Modak
27. Silajatu Rasayana
28. Topachini Modak
29. Kasa Kusmanda Khanda
Churna
1. Abipatti Kara Churna
2. Ashwagandha Churna
3. B Swanara Churna
4. Chitrakadi Churna
5. Chandanadi Churna
6. Dasam Sanskar Churna
7. Eladi Churna
8. Gangadhar Churna
9. Gomutre Haritaki Churna
10. Hingwastaka Churna
11. Jatiphaladi Churna
12. kshyadhasagar Churna
13. Kruminasini Churna
14. Nimbandi Churna
15. Navayasa Chruna
16. Narasingha Churna
17. Pathadi Churna
18. Palasa Vihar Chruna
19. Parisyadi Churna
20. Pancha Sakar Chruna
21. Pushyanaga Churna
22. Sudarsan Churna
23. Sitopaladi Churna
24. Srungyadi Churna
25. Swadishta Virechana Churna
26. Triphala Churna
27. Hingwadi Churna
Guggula
1. Abhaya Guggula
2. Gokshuraj Guggula
3. Jogaraja Guggula
4. Kanchanara Guggula
5. Kaishore Guggula
6. Moha Jogaraja Guggula
7. Panchamruta Loha Guiggula
8. Singhanada Guggula
9. Trayo Dashanga Guggula
10. Triphala Guggula
11. Vatari Guggula
Page 73/105
----- PAGE 74 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Ghruta
1. Amruta Prasa Ghruta
2. Ashoka Ghruta
3. Aswagandha Ghruta
4. Amtruat Bhallataka Ghruta
5. Brahmi Ghruta
6. Chhagaladya Ghruta
7. Kumar kalpadruma Ghruta
8. Panchagabya Ghruta
9. Panchatikakta Ghruta
10. Phala Ghruta
11. Panchatikta Ghruta Guggula
12. Rasunadi Ghruta
13. Satpala Ghruta
14. Triphala Ghruta
15. Tiktaka Ghruta
Taila
1. Bala Taila
2. Bisamarichayadi Taila
3. Bisha Tinduka Taila
4. Bhrungraj Taila (Brt.)
5. Bataraj Taila
6. Byaghri Taila
7. Chalmogara Taila
8. Chitrakadi Taila
9. Chandanadi Taila
10. Gandha Taila
11. Guduchyadi Taila
12. Jatyadi Taila
13. Kanaka Taila
14. Kasiadi Taila
15. Kustharakshyasa Taila
16. Kubja Prasaruni Taila
17. Kshibaia Taila
18. Kandar Pasara Taila
19. lakshadi Taila
20. Laghu Bishagarva Taila
21. Lavange Taila
22. Manjisthadi Taila
23. Madhujasthyadi Taila
24. Mohamas Taila
25. Maha Lakshadi Taila
26. Maha Bishagarva Taila
27. Maha Saindhabadi Taila
28. Maha Narayan Taila
29. Maha Dasamula Taila
30.
Narayan Taila (Madhyama)
31.
Nirgundi Taila
32.
Page 74/105
----- PAGE 75 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Nilagiri Taila
33.
Panchaguna Taila
34.
Pinda Taila
35.
Pipplyadi Taila
36.
Pancharka Taila
37.
Suska Muladi Taila
38.
Shadabindu Taila
39.
Saindhabadi Taila
40.
Somaraji Taila
41.
Sambhakadi Taila
42.
Sri Gopala Taila
43.
Sri Bishnu Taila
44.
Batari Taila
Lavan/kshara
1. Arka Lavan
2. Apamaranga Kshara
3. Abhaya Lavan
4. Bhaskar Lavan
5. Bajra Kshara
6. Kadali Kshara
7. Narikela Lavan
8. Palasa Kshara
9. Yava kshara
Bati/gutika
1. Agnitundi Bati
2. Arogya Bardhani Gutika
3. Amrutasara Bati
4. Bata Gajankusha
5. Balananda Bati
6. Bala Puspasuga
7. Bhubaneswar Bati
8. Bata Bidhwansini
9. Bimal Barty
10. Brt. Bata Gajendra Singha Bati
11. Chandraprava Bati
12. Chitrakedi Bati
13. Eladi Gutika
14. Gandhaka Bati
15. Gorachanadi Bati
Page 75/105
----- PAGE 76 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
16. Hinguleswar
17. Ichhavedi
18. Jakrut Sula Binasini Bati
19. Kankayana Gutika
20. Khadiradi Bati (Mukharaj)
21. Khardi Bati (kasa)
22. Kapha Ketu
23. Karpurdi Bati
24. Kasha Kuthara
25. Laxmibilash
26. Labangadi Bati
27. Maha Tarunarka
28. Maha Shrungaravara
29. Maha Laxmibilasa (with Gold)
30. Pranada Gutika
31. Raja Prabaurtini Bati
32. Rasunadi Bati
33. Rama Bana Bati
34. Siva Gutika (Laghu)
35. Sankha Bati (Maha)
36. Sulaharana Joga
37. Sulabajrini Bati
38. Surana Bati (Brt.)
39. Saubhagya Bati (Jwara)
40. Sanjibani Bati
41. Silajatu Bati
42. Saralavedi
43. Swarna Blananda Bati
44. Tamradi Gutika
45.
Chandrakala Bati
46.
Dugdha Bati (Sotha)
Rasa/Rasayana
1. Agnikumar Rasa
2. Amla Pittantake Rasa
3. Ananda Vairaba Rasa
4. Abbra Rasayana
5. Bata Kulantaka Rasa
6. Bata Rantantaka Rasa
7. Bari Shoshana Rasa
8. Brahmi Rasayana
9. Brt. Bangeswara Rasa
10. Brt. Puma Chandra Rasa
11. Brt. Bidyadharabhra
12. Brt. Chandradaya Makaradhawaja
13. Basanta Kushimakar Rasa (Gold)
14. Brt. Bata Chintamani Rasa
15. Brt. kasturi Bhairaba Rasa
16. Brt. Garva Chintamani Rasa
17. Chatrubhuja Rasa (without Gold)
Page 76/105
----- PAGE 77 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
18. Chaturmukha Rasa
19. Chaturbhuja Rasa (with Gold)
20. Chintamani Chaturmukha Rasa (Gold)
21. Chandra Mukuta Rasa
22. Jogendra Rasa (Gold)
23. Karpura Rasa
24. Krumi Mudgara Rasa
25. Kalyana Sundara Rasa
26. Kasturi Bhariraba Rasa
27. Kumar Kalyana Rasa
28. Kumudakar Rasa
29. Kamadhenu Rasa
30. Lokanatha Rasa
31. Laghu Puspasuga
32. Lila Bilash
33. Malla Sindura Rasa
34. Mrutyunjaya Rasa
35. Makardhwaja - Rasayana
36. Makaradhwaja (Siddha)
37. Makaradhwaja (Sadgunalabi)
38. Nrupati Ballava Rasa
39. Nagarjuna Rasa
40. Nityananda Rasa
41. Pradar Sarbaciga Sundar Rasa
42. Pabanari Rasa
43. Rasa Sindura
44. Rasa Manikya
45. Rasaraja Rasa (Gold)
46. Swarna Banga
47.
Shri Nrupati Ballava Rasa
48.
Shrungarabhra Rasa
49.
Shria Shula Bajra Rasa
50.
Swasa Kuthara Rasa
51.
Sidha Praneswara Rasa
52.
Suchitra Varana Rasa
53.
Suta Sekhara Rasa
54.
Sidha Makaradhwaja
55.
Subarna Puspasuga
56.
Slipadasi Rasa
57.
Sisu Kastur
Page 77/105
----- PAGE 78 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
58.
Somanatha Rasa
59.
Tribhuban Kirti Rasa
60.
Tarakeswar Rasa
61.
Gandhaka Rasayana
Parpati
1. Bala Parpati
2. Bijaya Parpati
3. Lauha Parpati
4. Panchmtuta Parpati
5. Rasa Parpati
6. Sweta Parpati
7. Swarna Parpati
8. Tamra Parpati
Lauha
1. Amlapittanka Lauha
2. Bidangadi Lauha
3. Baranadi Lauha
4. Chandardi Lauha
5. Dhatri Lauha
6. Gaganadi Lauha
7. Guduchyadi Lauha
8. Nabayasa Lauha
9. Pippalyadi Lauha
10. Putapaka Bisama Jwarantaka Lauha
11. Pradarantaka Lauha
12. Rakta Pittantaka Lauha
13. Rohitaka Lauha
14. Saptamruta Lauha
15. Sarbajwarahara Lauha
16. Silajaywadi Lauha
Mandura
1. Mandura Bataka
2. Navayasa Mandura
3. Purnarva Mandura
4. Panchamruta Lauha Mandura
5. Satabari Mandura
Bhasma
1. Abhraka Bhasma
2. Banga Bhasma
3. Godanti Bhasma
4. Harital Bhasma
5. Kapardaka Bhasma
6. Karpura Silajatu Bhasma
7. Lauha Bhasma
8. Mandura Bhasma
9. Mayurapuchha Bhasma
10. Muktasukti Bhasma
Page 78/105
----- PAGE 79 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
11. Naga Bhasma
12. Prabala Bhasma
13. Raupya Bhasma
14. Sangna Bhasma
15. Srunga Bhasma
16. Seesaka Bhasma
17. Swarna Makashika Bhasma
18. Tankana Bhasma
19. Tamra Bhasma
Pisti
1. Akik Pisti
2. Rabala Pisti
3. Trunakantamani Pisti
4. Zaharmohura Pisti
Kwath
1. Ardha Bilwadi Kashaya
2. Astabarga Kashaya
3. Balajirakadi Kashaya
4. Basa Gandachyudi Kwath
5. Bidarjadi Kwath
6. Dashamula Kwath
7. Dashamula Katutraya Kashaya
8. Drakshadi Kwath
9. Manjsuhadi Kwath
10. Mustakadi Kashaya
11. Nimbadi Kwath
12. Panchamula Kwath
13. katoladi Kwath
14. Pato maladi Kwath
15. Panchatikta Kwath
16. Panchabalakadi Kwath
17. Pathadi Kwath
18. Rasnadi Kashaya
19. Sadanga Kwath
20. Suptasara Kashaya
21. Maha Rasnadi Kashaya
Annexure - B
Sl. No.
Name of the Medicines
Mother Tinchures
Potency
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
1.
Aesculus Hip
Q
1M
10M
50M
Page 79/105
----- PAGE 80 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
CM
2.
Alfalfa
Q
...
...
...
...
3.
Aloe
...
1M
10M
50M
CM
4.
Alumina
...
...
...
...
...
5.
Amygdalus Persi
Q
1M
10M
50M
CM
6.
Amyl. Nitrosum
Q
...
...
...
...
7.
Anacardium
...
1M
10M
50M
CM
8.
Anemobsis Californicsa
...
Q
...
...
...
9.
Page 80/105
----- PAGE 81 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Antimonium Crudum
...
1M
10M
50M
CM
10.
Antimonium Tart
...
1M
10M
50M
CM
11.
Apis Mallifica
Q
1M
10M
50M
CM
12.
Apocynum Cnnabinum...
Q
...
...
...
...
13.
Argentum Nit
...
1M
10M
50M
CM
14.
Arnica
...
1M
10M
50M
CM
15.
Arsenicum Alb
...
1M
10M
50M
CM
16.
Anrum Metallicum
...
Page 81/105
----- PAGE 82 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
1M
10M
50M
CM
17.
Avena Sativa
Q
...
...
...
...
18.
Bacilinum
...
...
...
...
...
19.
Baptisic
Q
...
...
...
...
20.
Belladonna
...
1M
10M
50M
CM
21.
Beilis perennis
...
...
...
...
Ointment
22.
Blatta Orientails
Q
...
...
...
...
23.
Bryonia
Q
1 M
10M
Page 82/105
----- PAGE 83 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
50M
CM
24.
Badiga
...
1M
10M
50M
CMOintment
25.
Calcarea Carbanica
...
1 M
10M
50M
CM
26.
Calcarea Fluonica
...
1 M
10M
50M
CM
27.
Calcarea Phos
...
1M
10M
50M
CM
28.
Calendula Officinalis
Q
...
...
...
Ointment
29.
Calotropis
Q
...
...
...
...
30.
Camphors
Q
...
...
...
...
Page 83/105
----- PAGE 84 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
31.
Cantharis
...
1M
10M
50M
CMOintment
32.
Castanea V.
Q
...
...
...
...
33.
Causticum
...
1M
10M
50M
CM
34.
Ceanothus
Q
...
...
...
...
35.
Chenopdium Majus
Q
...
...
...
...
36.
Chenopdium Anthelmi
Q
...
...
...
Oil
37.
Chelone
Q
...
...
...
...
38.
Chinimum Sulph
Page 84/105
----- PAGE 85 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
...
1M
10M
50M
CM
39.
Chionanthus
Q
...
...
...
...
40.
Chryasarobin
Q
...
...
...
...
41.
Cinchona Officinalis
...
1M
10M
50M
CM
42.
Cineraria Matitina Succus
...
...
...
...
...
43.
Cinnamonum
Oi
...
...
...
...
44.
Colchicum
Q
1M
10M
50M
CM
45.
Collinsonia
Q
1M
Page 85/105
----- PAGE 86 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
10M
50M
CMOintment
46.
Colocynthis
...
1M
10M
50M
CM
47.
Condurango
Q
...
...
...
...
48.
Conium
...
1M
10M
50M
CM
49.
Diphtherinum
...
1M
10M
50M
CM
50.
Dulcamora
...
1M
10M
50M
CM
51.
Echinacea
Q
...
...
...
...
52.
Epigea Rep
Q
...
...
...
Page 86/105
----- PAGE 87 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
...
53.
Equisetum
Q
...
...
...
...
54.
Erechthites
Q
...
...
...
...
55.
Eriodictyon
Q
...
...
...
...
56.
Eryngium Aqua
Q
...
...
...
...
57.
Eucalyptus Glo
Q
...
...
...
...
58.
Eupatorium Arom
Q
...
...
...
...
59.
Eupatorium Pert
...
1M
10M
50M
CM
60.
Page 87/105
----- PAGE 88 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Eupharisa
Q
...
...
...
...
61.
Fabiana Imbri
Q
...
...
...
...
62.
Ferrum Met
...
1M
10M
50M
CM
63.
F. Phos
...
1M
10M
50M
CM
64.
Fucus Vsiculosm
Q
...
...
...
...
65.
Gelsenium
...
1M
10M
50M
CM
66.
Geraniun M
Q
...
...
...
...
67.
Golondrina
Q
Page 88/105
----- PAGE 89 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
...
...
...
...
68.
Gassypium
Q
...
...
...
...
69.
Graphites
...
1M
10M
50M
CMOintment
70.
Guaacum
Q
...
...
...
...
71.
Hamcte is V.
Q
...
...
...
...
72.
Hopar Suplh.
...
1M
10M
50M
CM
73.
Hoang Nan
Q
...
...
...
...
74.
Hydrastis
Q
...
...
Page 89/105
----- PAGE 90 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
...
...
75.
Hydrocotyle
Q
...
...
...
Ointment
76.
Hyoscyamus
Q
1M
10M
50M
CM
77.
Hypericum
Q
...
...
...
Ointment
78.
Ichthyolum
...
...
...
...
Ointment
79.
Ignatia
...
1M
10M
50M
CM
80.
Ipecacuanha
...
1M
10M
50M
CM
81.
Iris Versicolar
...
1M
10M
50M
CM
Page 90/105
----- PAGE 91 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
82.
Jonosia Asoca
Q
...
...
...
...
83.
Juniperus Communis
Q
...
...
...
...
84.
Kali Carb
...
1M
10M
50M
CM
85.
Kalipermanganicum
Q
...
...
...
...
86.
Kaliphos
...
1M
10M
50M
CM
87.
Kalisilicatum
...
1M
10M
50M
CM
88.
Kreosotum
Q
...
...
...
...
89.
Lac-Caninum
Page 91/105
----- PAGE 92 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
...
1M
10M
50M
CM
90.
Lac-Defloratum
...
1M
10M
50M
CM
91.
Lachesis
...
1M
10M
50M
CM
92.
Lactuca Virosa
Q
...
...
...
...
93.
Ledum
Q
1M
10M
50M
CM
94.
Lilium Tig
...
1M
10M
50M
CM
95.
Lunulus-Humulus
Q
...
...
...
...
96.
Lycopodium
...
1M
Page 92/105
----- PAGE 93 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
10M
50M
CM
97.
Magnesia Muriatica
Q
...
...
...
...
98.
Magnesia Phosphorica
...
1M
10M
50M
CM
99.
Malandrinum
...
1M
10M
50M
CM
100.
Medorrhinum
...
1M
10M
50M
CM
101.
Molilotus
Q
...
...
...
...
102.
Mentha Piperita
Q
...
...
...
...
103.
Milleforlium
Q
...
...
...
Page 93/105
----- PAGE 94 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
...
104.
Momordica Balsamina
Q
...
...
...
...
105.
Mirica
Q
...
...
...
...
106.
Myristica Sebifera
Q
...
...
...
...
107.
Natrum Chloratum
Q
...
...
...
...
108.
Nitri Spiritus Dulcis
Q
...
...
...
...
109.
Nitro Muriatic Acid
Q
...
...
...
...
110.
Nuphar Luteum
Q
...
...
...
...
111.
Page 94/105
----- PAGE 95 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Nux Moschats
Q
1M
10M
50M
CM
112.
Nux Vomica
Q
1M
10M
50M
CM
113.
Nyctanthes Arbortri
Q
...
...
...
...
114.
Cleum Jecoris Aselli
Q
...
...
...
Ointment
115.
Oleum Santali
Q
...
...
...
116.
Passiflora Incarnata
Q
...
...
...
...
117.
Petrolum
...
1M
10M
50M
CM
118.
Phosphoricum Acidum
...
1M
Page 95/105
----- PAGE 96 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
10M
50M
CM
119.
Phosphorus
...
1M
10M
50M
CM
120.
Phytolacca
...
1M
10M
50M
CM
121.
Pious Syivestris
Q
...
...
...
...
122.
Plantago Major
Q
...
...
...
...
123.
Plumbum Metalltcum
...
1M
10M
50M
CM
124.
Podophylum
...
1M
10M
50M
CM
125.
Polygonum Punctaium
...
...
...
...
Page 96/105
----- PAGE 97 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
...
126.
Propylamin Trimethylaminum
Q
...
...
...
...
127.
Psorinum
Q
1M
10M
50M
CM
128.
Pulsatilla
Q
1M
10M
50M
CM
129.
Pyrogenium
...
1M
10M
50M
CM
130.
Quercus Glandiumspi
Q
...
...
...
...
131.
Ranunculus Bulbosus
Q
...
...
...
...
132.
Rhamnus Californica
Q
...
...
...
...
133.
Page 97/105
----- PAGE 98 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Rhododendron
...
1M
10M
50M
CM
134.
Rhus Clabra
Q
...
...
...
...
135.
Rhustpxocpdemdrpm
Q
1M
10M
50M
CM
136.
Rocomiscp, Imos
Q
...
...
...
...
137.
Ritagravepnms
Q
1M
10M
50MOintment
CMLinient
138.
Saba, Serri, Ata
Q
...
...
...
...
139.
Sabina
Q
1M
10M
SOM
CM
140.
Salix Nigra
Q
Page 98/105
----- PAGE 99 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
...
...
...
...
141.
Banguinaria
...
1M
10M
50M
CM
142.
Santeninum
...
1X
3X
143.
Scroaparilla
...
1M
10M
50M
CM
144.
Scrophularia Nodosa ..
Q
...
...
...
...
145.
Secale Corutum
...
1M
10M
50M
CM
146.
Selenium
...
1M
10M
50M
CM
147.
Sepia
...
1M
10M
50M
CM
Page 99/105
----- PAGE 100 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
148.
Silicea
...
1M
10M
50M
CM
149.
Solidage Mirga
Q
...
...
...
...
150.
Spongia Tosta
...
1M
10M
50M
CM
151.
Stercul
Q
...
...
...
...
152.
Strontia
...
1M
10M
50M
CM
153.
Sulphur
...
1M
10M
50M
CMOintment
154.
Syptilinum
...
1M
10M
50M
CM
155.
Symphytum
Page 100/105
----- PAGE 101 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Q
...
...
...
...
156.
Syzygium Jambo
...
...
...
...
...
157.
Tellurium
...
1M
10M
50M
CM
158.
Thuja Occidentalis
Q
1M
10M
50MOintment
CMLinient
159.
Tribulus Terrestris
Q
...
...
...
...
160.
Trillium Pendulum
Q
...
...
...
...
161.
Trillicum Agropyron Ref.
Q
...
...
...
...
162.
Tuberculinum
...
1M
Page 101/105
----- PAGE 102 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
10M
50M
CM
163.
Turnera
Q
...
...
...
...
164.
Urtika Urons
Q
...
...
...
Ointment
165.
Mullein Cal
Oil
...
...
...
...
166.
Viscum Album
Q
...
...
...
...
167.
Yohimbinum
Q
...
...
...
...
168.
Zincum Mt.
...
1M
10M
50M
CM
169.
Qalc. Phos.
3X
6X
12X
30X
Page 102/105
----- PAGE 103 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
200X
170.
Calc. Flour
3X
6X
12X
30X
200X
171.
Calc. Sulph.
3X
6X
12X
30X
200X
172.
Fer. Phos.
3X
6X
12X
30X
200X
173.
Kali. Mur
3X
6X
12X
30X
200X
174.
Kali. Phos.
3X
6X
12X
30X
200X
175.
Kali. Sulph.
3X
6X
12X
30X
200X
176.
Mag. Phos.
3X
6X
12X
30X
200X
177.
Page 103/105
----- PAGE 104 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
Nat. Mur.
3X
6X
12X
30X
200X
178.
Nat. Phos.
3X
6X
12X
30X
200X
179.
Nat. Sulph.
3X
6X
12X
30X
200X
180.
Silicea
3X
6X
12X
30X
200X
Annexure - C
List of Ayurvedic Pharmacies to be approved under the Reimbursement Scheme
1. Utkal Ayurvedic Co - operative Pharmacy, Aska, Ganjam.
2. Sadhana Aousadhalaya (Dacca) (36 B.K.Paul Avenue, Calcutta - 5).
3. Baidyanath Ayurvedic Bhaban (P) Limited, Calcutta, Patna, Jhansi, Nagpur, Naini (Allhabad).
4. Dabur (Dr. S.K.Burman) Private Ltd., Calcutta and Faridabad.
5. Jhandu Pharmaceutical Works Ltd., Gokhale Road, South Bombay - 25.
6. National Ayurvedic Pharmacy, Kavisuryanagar, Ganjam.
7. Lokaseva Ayurved Pharmacy, South Gate, Puri.
8. All the State Ayurvedic Pharmacies in Orissa.
9. Any other Parmacies or individuals manufacturing medicines for the purpose of other patients notified by the
Government of Orissa.
1. Subject - Reimbursement of cost of treatment of Government servants and their families under the system of
Ayurvedic and Homoeopathic medicines outside the State.
The undersigned is directed to say that the medical facilities for reimbursement of cost of treatment of Government
servants and their families have been extended in Health Department Resolution No. 26888 - H., dated 23.11.1973
which is limited within the State. Now difficulties are being experienced by the Government servants and their families
who are stationed at or passing through other States to get the reimbursement of cost of their treatment under this
system.
2. To obviate such difficulty Government after careful consideration have been pleased to declare the Registered
Medical Practitioner of Ayurvedic and Homoeopathic medicines, whether in Government services or private, who will be
available near at hand at the place where the Government servants and the member of their families fall ill as Authorised
Medical Attendant for the purpose of reimbursement of cost of treatment under the Ayurvedic and Homoeopathic
medicines to the Government servants who are stationed at or passing through the other States.
Page 104/105
----- PAGE 105 -----
The Orissa Services (Medical Attendance) Rules, 1947
3. The cost of treatment under this system will be reimbursed to the Government servants on production of a certificate
in writing from the Authorised Medical Attendant on this behalf and necessary vouchers.
4. Reimbursement of the actual expenses includes the entire cost of the medical treatment such as consultation fees of
the doctors charges for pathological, X - Ray examination, etc. Hospital charges if admitted, Ambulance charges, special
Nursing charges, etc.
5. This order will be given effect from the date of issue.
6. This order issues with the concurrence of the F.D. vide their U.O.R.No 108 C.S.S.I., dated 29.1.1981.
(Health Department G.O. No. 8779 - H., dated 11.3.1981)
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 105/105