
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Orissa Homoeopathic Regulations, 1972
The Orissa Homoeopathic Regulations, 1972
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/50782858/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Odisha - Act
The Orissa Homoeopathic Regulations, 1972
ODISHA
India
The Orissa Homoeopathic Regulations, 1972
Rule THE-ORISSA-HOMOEOPATHIC-REGULATIONS-1972 of 1972
Published on 23 September 1947
Commenced on 23 September 1947
[This is the version of this document from 23 September 1947.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Orissa Homoeopathic Regulations, 1972
Published vide Notification No. 230-B.H.O., dated, 22.1.1972, Orissa Gazette Part-7/4.2.1972
Notification No. 230-B.H.O., dated, 22.1.1972. - The following regulations made under Clause (k) of Sub-section (1) of
Section 53 read with Section 34 (8) of the Orissa Homoeopathic Act, 1956 (Orissa Act 8 of 1957) having been previously
sanctioned by the State Government are hereby published in the Gazette as required under Sub-section (3) of the said
section.
Regulations Under Section 53(1) (K)
1.
A candidate in order to be admitted to examination must produce a certificate from the Head of a recognised institution
for having engaged in Homoeopathic studies for two years after joining and has attended at least 75 per cent lectures in
theoretical and practical subjects separately.
Page 1/15
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Orissa Homoeopathic Regulations, 1972
2.
The Principal of the institution is competent to condone 15 per cent of lectures. The President of the Faculty may
condone another 5 per cent of shortage of lectures on the recommendations of the Principal.
3.
(a)
A student for [intermediate or]
[Inserted vide Orissa Gazette Part-VII/8.8.1975.]
either part of the Final D.H.M.S. Examination who fails to pass the examination may be exempted from further
examination in that subject or subjects he has passed.
(b)
[* * *]
[Omitted vide Orissa Gazette Part-VII/8.8.1975.]
Duration of answering question papers
4.
Each paper carrying 100 marks shall have 3 hours' duration.
5.
Appointment of examiner.
- It shall be a condition of appointment that an examiner shall not during his term of appointment coach any candidate
who is preparing for the examination for the term of which he is appointed as an examiner.
6.
No examiner shall enter into communication with any candidate or any matter in connection with the examination. Any
examinee approaching an examiner directly or indirectly in connection with his examination should be reported to the
Faculty. On receipt of such report the Faculty may take actions as deemed proper.
[If an examiner fails to report such an occurrence, action, as deemed fit, maybe taken against him.]
[Inserted vide Orissa Gazette Part-VII/8.8.1975.]
7.
The Examination Sub-Committee may supervise all the arrangements at the centre for the examination deemed
necessary.
8.
In the written portion of the examinations there shall be one examiner in each paper. He shall set question paper on the
subject as well as examine and mark all the answer papers on that subject, if separate question setters not appointed by
the Examination Sub-Committee.
9.
If an examiner is for any reason not available to conduct an examination, the President shall appoint another examiner
as locum tenens to replace the substantive examiner. Similarly the President is empowered to appoint another examiner
in case of emergency in order to award marks on answer books. The locum tenens shall vacate the appointment, if any,
when the substantive examiner again becomes available and if the substantive examiner does not become available the
'locum tenens' shall vacate the appointment on the date on which the substantive examiner would have vacated it.
10.
An examiner shall in setting a paper and in conducting the oral and practical examination be guided as to the scope of
the subject of the examinations by the syllabus provided by the Faculty.
11.
The question paper shall be delivered by the question setter in person to the President or sent to him registered post
insured for Rs. 100 in a sealed double, cover on or before the date, prescribed by the Examination Sub-Committee.
Question setters-must seal any packet containing draft question, using seat which can be identified and enclose them in
a cloth lined envelop. No copy of the question set shall be retained by the question setter for which he shall have to give
an undertaking in the prescribed Form No. 6. The question papers after they are printed should be kept in custody of the
President till they are sent out to the Presiding Officer of the Examination centre concerned. After getting the question
papers printed the President shall forward them in a double sealed cover by registered post or through person at the
proper time to the Presiding Officer of the Examination centre.
12.
Page 2/15
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Orissa Homoeopathic Regulations, 1972
The President shall be responsible for moderating question papers set by each question setter. He shall be responsible
for correction of proofs before final printing.
13.
(a)
In setting questions the question setters should be guided by the regulations and syllabus. Questions should got be
frequently repeated in successive examinations.
(b)
In setting questions, examiners should ensure that the questions should be clear, unambiguous and embrace all the
prescribed subjects. The question should so set as they could be answered within the prescribed time-limit.
(c)
Question papers shall be set in English or in Oriya. The candidates are required to answer the questions in the language
set.
14.
Copyright, if any, in examination papers prepared for faculty shall be vested in the Faculty.
15.
No question paper shall be divided into more than two sections.
16.
The marks assigned to each question should be indicated in the question paper, clearly and specifically.
17.
The oral and practical examinations in a subject shall be jointly conducted by the external examiner and the Lecturer [* *
*]
[Omitted vide Orissa Gazette Part-VII/8.8.1972.]
in the College. The number of marks gained by each candidate shall be determined by mutual consultations. The
examination should be aimed at intelligent test of practical knowledge in the subject and its practical applicability.
17A.
[
[Omitted vide Orissa Gazette Part-VII/8.8.1972.]
In case of refusal by a lecturer teaching a subject to be the internal examiner without any valid grounds, such refusal
shall be deemed to be gross misconduct and such latches to be reported to the Government management of the
institution for necessary action.]
18.
The Examination Sub-Committee shall ordinarily appoint the Principal of the institution to be Presiding Officer of the
Examination centre and such other staff as may be necessary for the smooth conduct of the examinations. Immediately
after the conclusion of the examinations it shall be the duty of the Presiding Officer to ensure that the answer papers are
put in secure covers, sealed with his private seal, and forwarded by registered post insured for Rs. 200 each to the
examiners concerned. The Principal shall also ensure strict secrecy about the examination papers.
19.
Rolls of candidates appearing in examinations and the dates by which the papers have to be submitted to the Faculty
will be intimated by the Secretary to the examiners who are required to keep the results of the examinations and the
marks assigned to candidates strictly secret.
20.
On receipt of answer books, the first duty of the examiners shall be to see that the number of candidates on the answer
book correspond with the number of candidates on the roll. A list of absentees, if any, will be enclosed with the answer
books. In case of any discrepancy the Secretary shall be forthwith informed of the same.
21.
It is essential that total marks even if zero assigned to each answer are entered in the left-hand margin of the answer
book against each answer. It is in all cases necessary to write the total marks on the outside of the answer books in
right-hand top corner and to enter the same marks on the roll.
22.
An examiner shall, on or before the date fixed in that regard by the Examination Sub-Committee forward to the
Secretary the result of examination or examinations in every subject in which he has been an examiner together with the
Page 3/15
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Orissa Homoeopathic Regulations, 1972
nature of answers given by the examinees in their respective subject. Such report in case of practical examination
should specify defects in approach towards the subject and attitude of the students.
23.
As soon as possible after tabulation of the marks by the Secretary, they shall be considered by the Examination
Sub-Committee who will place the results before the Faculty for consideration and adoption.
24.
[* * *]
[Omitted vide Orissa Gazette Part-VII/8.8.1975 and subsequent clauses consecutively re-numbered Orissa Gazette
Part-VII/8.8.1972.]
.
25.
A candidate for either part of the final examination, who passes in all the subjects of the first attempt and secures
seventy-five per cent of the minimum marks in any subject or subjects shall be declared to have passed with Honours in
that subject or subjects.
26.
After the results are recommended by the Sub-Committee and approved by the Faculty, the Secretary shall publish the
same in Orissa Gazette as the list of successful candidates. The publication will be deemed to be an authentic proof of
passing the examination.
27.
The Sub-Committee shall have full power in case of reasonable suspicion to scrutinise and revalue the answer books.
The decision of the Examination Sub-Committee duly approved by the Faculty will be final. The Secretary will preserve
the paper for a year, after which the papers shall be destroyed unless otherwise directed or necessary.
28.
On receipt of Rs.2 towards the mark-sheet fee the Secretary will Issue the mark-list of the examination to the candidate.
29.
(a)
A candidate can submit one application through the Principal of the institution within one month of the declaration of
results alongwith a fee of Rs. 10 for each subject to conform as to whether his answer paper of that particular subject or
subjects have been properly examined and reasonably marked or not.
The Secretary or receipt of such application shall convene a meeting of the Examination Sub-Committee for verification,
re-valuation and re-totalling of marks of the particular answer paper of the candidate. If during verification the candidate
will be found to have passed, the matter is referred to the President to call emergency meeting of the Faculty to declare
the result of the said candidate.
(b)
On verification of the answer papers, if it will be found that the candidate has passed, his verification fee shall be
refunded to him.
30.
Candidates eligible to appear at the examination to be conducted by the Faculty should apply through their respective
Principals in the prescribed form.
Instruction to the Presiding Officer at the examination
31.
After ringing the warning bell five minutes before the time fixed forgiving out the question papers the Presiding Officer
will call the roll numbers of the candidates according to the list given to him by the Secretary and will note on the list the
absence of any candidate.
32.
He should initial all blank answer papers before distribution and emphasise that candidates must write their roll
numbers, the name of the subject, name of the class on the prescribed place of the answer book.
32A.
The sealed cover containing the question papers should be opened precisely at the hours fixed for the commencement
of examination.
33.
Page 4/15
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Orissa Homoeopathic Regulations, 1972
The Presiding Officer should satisfy himself specially that all the rolls have been supplied with question papers.
34.
On termination of the examination the number of answer books issued to the examiners are to be checked with the roll
numbers.
35.
The answer books are to be despatched to the examiner. They should either be handed over to the examiner in person
or sent to him in double covers by registered post insured for Rs. 200 in the examiner's address furnished by the
Secretary.
36.
The office staff or the head of the institutions at which the examination is held may assist in the despatching and posting
of the answer books.
37.
The President office must ensure that the covers containing the answer papers are properly sealed.
Duties of Invigilators
38.
Each Invigilator is expected to supervise about [25]
[Substituted vide Orissa Gazette Part-VII/8.8.1975.]
candidates.
39.
The Invigilator should ensure that no candidate copies from another candidate or makes use of notes or has in his
possession any book or paper excepting those issued to him in the examination hall.
40.
An Invigilator must be on move all the time.
41.
each Invigilator is responsible for the safe delivery of the answer books of the candidates to the Presiding Officer.
42.
The Invigilator will ensure that the answer books of candidates are properly stitched together, that the answer books
contain the roll number, subject, etc., that the answer book delivered to the Presiding Officer are serially arranged, and
none of the candidate leave the room without delivering .his/her answer book even if no question is attempted.
43.
No Invigilator should leave the examination hall without the permission of the Presiding Officer and must reach half an
hour before time on the first day and at least fifteen minutes before time on subsequent days. The Presiding Officer may
cancel the appointment of any Invigilator who arrives in the hall after the examination has commenced.
44.
Invigilators shall act under the orders of the Presiding Officer-
Duties of clerk
45.
A day before the examination, he is to see that the seats in the examination hall have been properly arranged as per the
instruction of the Presiding Officer and numbered and all necessary articles of stationery for use in the examination have
been supplied.
46.
He will draw up under the orders of the Presiding Officer, plans showing seating arrangements of the candidates for
each' examination.
47.
Twenty minutes before the commencement of each examination he has to ensure that the hall is cleared, seats are in
order and proper ink and paper have been supplied at the table of each candidate. He has to ensure that the
examination hall clock indicates correct time and that drinking water provision has been made.
48.
He is to assist the Presiding Officer, in admittance of candidate into the hall and checking that each candidate is in his
proper seat and also to assist in taking roll call.
49.
Page 5/15
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Orissa Homoeopathic Regulations, 1972
He has to do all necessary clerical work after each examination. He is to assist in checking answer books and in sealing
and despatch of answer papers to the examiners.
50.
He has to keep account of blank answer books. .
Duties of Chaprasis
51.
They will get the hall clean and clean the table and put them in order and supply ink and paper at each table. This must
be done 15 minutes before each examination commences.
52.
They will attend to Daftaries work under the supervision of the clerk.
53.
They will bring necessary stationery articles from the office each day.
54.
They will supply drinking water under supervision of*the Invigilator.
55.
They will do all other works entrusted to them by he Invigilator.
56.
During the examination they will have to act as watchmen outside the hall.
Rules for the guidance and conduct of examiners
57.
Candidates suffering from illness or diseases which might render their presence-in any way prejudicial to the general
hygiene of others will not be allowed to enter the examination hall.
58.
The door of the examination hall shalt be opened on the first day half an hour before the examination takes place and
subsequent days a quarter of an hour before. The Presiding Officer may permit a candidate to appear in the examination
late ; provided the candidate is not more than fifteen minutes late. Except under special circumstances the Presiding
Officer shall not admit a candidate to the examination hall after fifteen minutes of the beginning of the examination
unless he is satisfied that the candidate was delayed due to causes beyond his control, in which case he may
provisionally admit the candidate thirty minutes from the commencement of examination. No candidate shall be admitted
to the examination hall after half an hour of the beginning of the examination. The provisional admission, if any, will be
subject to confirmation by the President of the State Homoeopathic Faculty. If such confirmation is not made the
candidate will be regarded as not to have appeared in the examination.
The presiding Officer is required to forward the Secretary, State Homoeopathic Faculty, a report indicating the causes of
such delay on the part of the candidate.
59.
Every candidate must, before entering the examination hall, leave outside all books, notes or papers except the admit
card which he must bring with him on each day of examination in order to allow him to enter in the examination hall.
Candidates must provide their own pen holder and pens.
60.
A seat with number corresponding to the roll number of the admit card will be allotted to each candidate.
61.
Candidates must take their seats at least five minutes before the appointed time.
62.
(a)
A candidate helping or attempting to help another candidate or obtaining or attempting to obtain unfair assistance at
examination shall, on the first occasion, on proof, if found guilty of such offence may be debarred from appearing for one
year on the Faculty's examination and shall, if found guilty of the same offence on a second occasion may be
permanently debarred from all subsequent examinations of the Faculty. The Presiding Officer will report the name of the
offender and the offences committed to the Faculty giving full details of the case with a copy of the written report of the
Invigilator or Observer, if any. The Faculty will communicate their decision to the Principal of the institution.
(b)
Page 6/15
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Orissa Homoeopathic Regulations, 1972
All communications between the candidates during examination are prohibited.
(c)
No candidate is permitted to have in his possession while in the examination hall any book, memorandum of pocket
book, note book or paper whatsoever (even if these papers are in no way connected with the subject under the
examination) except (i) the question paper, (ii) the Secretary's receipt, (iii) the book provided by the Board for writing out
the answer ; and (iv) blotting paper supplied. A candidate disregarding this rule is liable to the penalty mentioned in (a)
above.
63.
No candidate without the permission of the Presiding Officer shall leave his seat or the examination hall until one hour
has elapsed from the time of commencement of examination.
64.
Every candidate shall write on both sides of the answer book, leaving a quarter page margin. If a candidate renders the
indentification of his answer paper illegible or ambiguous or enters a false number or intentionally ' omits to enter his roll
number as required, his name shall be reported to the Faculty for such action as the Faculty may deem fit.
65.
Any candidate who makes in his answer books any objectionable or improper remark shall be reported to the Faculty for
such action as the Faculty may deem fit.
66.
No candidate will be allowed by the Presiding Officer to leave the examination hall until an hour has elapsed from the
time of commencement of the examination, nor until he has finally given up his answer book; provided that in case of
urgent necessity a candidate may, with the special permission of the Presiding Officer, temporarily leave the
examination hall, but during his stay outside he must be under the surveillance of a thoroughly trustworthy person to be
deputed for that purpose by the Presiding Officer.
67.
No candidate who has finally left the examination hall, will be allowed to re-enter during the hour of the same
examination.
68.
A candidate having completed his answer paper must handover it to the Invigilator or Presiding Officer before leaving
examination hall and must not leave it on his desk or elsewhere.
69.
A candidate wishing to ask a question will rise from his seat and remain standing until the Presiding Officer or his
representative or the Invigilator comes to him. Such candidate must not leave his place, nor he will call the attention of
the Presiding Officer by speaking or making any noise.
70.
[
[Substituted vide Orissa Gazette Part-VII/8-8-1975.]
Any lapse in the above conduct of any candidate, if any, detected or comes to the notice of the Presiding Officer of any
examination centre, either by report or otherwise, shall be enquired into by the Presiding Officer and he shall forward
within a fortnight the result of his enquiry with the original report or information, if any, alongwith the proceeding of the
enquiry, for such action by the faculty, as they shall deem fit.]
70A.
[
[Inserted vide Orissa Gazette Part-VII/8-8-1975.]
While proceeding against delinquent, adequate opportunity shall be given to him to submit his written explanation both
at the inquiry stage as also against the proposed punishment, if any.]
71.
Precisely five minutes before the time fixed for the commencement of examination a warning bell will ring as a signal for
all candidates to take their seats. After warning bell has been rung any outsider found loitering inside and around the hall
shall be cleared out.
Regulations Under Section 53 (1)
In accordance with the provisions laid down in Clause (8) of Section 34 of the Orissa Flomoeopathic Act, 1956, the
Page 7/15
----- PAGE 8 -----
The Orissa Homoeopathic Regulations, 1972
Orissa State Board of Homoeopathic Medicine with the previous approval of the State Government do hereby establish
the 'Medical Faculty of Homoeopathy'.
1. The functions of the Faculty are-
(a)
to impart Homoeopathic education
(b)
to carry out research and investigations in Homoeopathic medicine;
(c)
to compile, prescribe and approve books according to syllabus prescribed;
(d)
[to recommend syllabus and curriculum]
[Substituted vide Orissa Gazette Part-VII/5-4-1977.]
, and to inspect teaching Hospitals;
(e)
[to assist in conducting and in granting]
[Substituted vide Orissa Gazette Part-VII/5-4-1977.]
Diploma/Degree according to Section 48 of the Act ;
(f)
to take such other actions as are necessary to improve the standard of teaching and learning in Homoeopathy.
2. The Faculty shall consist of 11 (eleven) members-
(a)
the President of the Board-President;
(b)
(i)
the Principal of the Government Homoeopathic Medical College- ex officio Member;
(ii)
one of the Principals of other recognised Colleges of the State to be nominated by the State Government;
(c)
six members to be nominated for the first term by the State Government for a period of 5 years from amongst the
persons who are institutionally qualified and have undergone 4 years course in the minimum and having outstanding
professional knowledge in Homoeopathy and two other members from amongst the Registered Homoeopaths of the
State.
3. After the first term is completed the Council shall be constituted as follows :
(a)
President of the Orissa State Board of Homoeopathic Medicines ;
(b)
(i)
Principal of the Government Homoeopathic Medical College, ex -officio Member;
(ii)
one of the Principals of other recognised Homoeopathic Colleges or the State, ex officio Member;
(c)
two representatives elected out of the members of the State Board of Homoeopathy;
(d)
three institutionally qualified members who have undergone four years course to be elected by the registered
Homoeopathic Practitioners from amongst such Homoeopathic Practitioners ;
(e)
three distinguished Homoeopathic scholars nominated by the State Government either from Orissa or outside the State
of Orissa.
4. In case of vacancies caused by death, resignation, removal or otherwise, new members will be elected or nominated,
as the case may be, in their places for the unexpired term of office.
Any member at any time may resign office by a letter addressed to the President. Such resignation shall have the effect
Page 8/15
----- PAGE 9 -----
The Orissa Homoeopathic Regulations, 1972
from the date of which it is accepted by the Faculty. In case of any vacancy arising due to otherwise reasons the
vacancy may be filled up for the unexpired portion of the term of four years.
5. The term of the members of the Faculty will be for a period of five years.
The members however will continue to be in office till next Faculty is constituted.
6. The Faculty may remove from office any member of the Faculty who-
(a)
absents himself from three consecutive meetings of the Faculty without showing reasonable cause;
(b)
or whose name is removed from the register;
(c)
one who is of unsound mind;
(d)
or who becomes incapable to act or who is proved to act against the Faculty of the Homoeopathic Education or spread
of Homoeopathy.
7. The names of the President, and the members of the Faculty shall be notified in the Orissa Gazette.
8. The President shall ordinarily preside over all the meetings of the Faculty. In the absence of the President, members
will elect a Chairman for the meeting from among the members present to transact the business of the meeting.
9. The Registrar of the Board shall be the Secretary of the Faculty for all matters and he will be responsible for the day
to day work of the Faculty. [In the absence or leave of Registrar-cum-Secretary of the Faculty, the President shall be
competent to arrange substitute for carrying out the duties of the Registrar-cum-Secretary. As far as practicable the
President is to entrust work to the senior-most clerk of the Board available at the relevant time]
[Inserted vide Orissa Gazette Part-VII/8-8 1976.]
.
10. There shall be an Examination Sub-Committee consisting of the following members :
(a)
President of the Faculty;
(b)
Principals;
(c)
Two members nominated by the Faculty.
11. Ordinarily the nominated members will hold office for one year but will be eligible for re-nomination.
12. There shall be an inspection Sub-Committee consisting of not 'less, than two members including the President to
inspect approved colleges and also those seeking approval as college or training institutions. They shall ordinarily hold
office for one year but will be eligible for re-nomination.
13. Meetings of the Faculty. - The meetings of the Faculty shall ordinarily be held once before the examination and
another just after completion of the examination. Fourteen days' notice of every meeting specifying date, time and place
at which the meeting is to be held and the business to be transacted thereat, should be given by the Secretary to every
member.
14. the President may call a special meeting of the Faculty whenever he considers the same to be necessary.
15. The President shall call special meeting of the Faculty upon a requisition signed by four or more members.
16. The President may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, adjourn a meeting at any time to any future day or to any
hour of the same day.'
17. Voting at meeting. - Subjects which are not unanimously decided in a meeting shall be decided by a majority of
votes. In cases of equality of votes the Presiding authority shall have a second or casting vote.
18. Quorum. - At least four members shall form a quorum at a meeting of the Faculty. In adjourned meeting the
members present will form the quorum.
19. Minutes. - Minutes of the proceedings at every meeting shall be recorded in a book provided specially for the
purpose and shall be signed by the Presiding authority. The attendance of the members present shall be taken in the
register. The book shall be opened for inspection of the members.
20. A copy of the minutes of the proceedings of every meeting of the Faculty shall within seven days from the date of the
meeting, be forwarded to the President of the Board and to the Government.
Page 9/15
----- PAGE 10 -----
The Orissa Homoeopathic Regulations, 1972
21. Government will have the power to cancel any resolution for good and sufficient reason or may direct the facility to
amend the resolution within a specified period.
22. Common seal. - The [Board]
[Substituted vide Orissa Gazette Part-VII/5-7-1974.]
shall have a common seal which shall be in the custody of the President. The seal of the Faculty shall be affixed to the
Diploma/Degree of the Faculty.
23. Examination Sub-Committee. - The function of the Examination Sub-Committee shall include-
(a)
[recommending appointment of examiners]
[Substituted vide Orissa Gazette Part-VII/5-7-1974.]
, both external and internal and question setters;
(b)
making all arrangements in connection with the examinations to the Faculty regarding examination results;
(c)
scrutinising of mark-sheets and furnishing of recommendations to the Faculty regarding examination results;
(d)
disposal of all applications regarding holding of examinations or grant of exemptions and all other matters regarding
examinations.
24. Inspection Sub-Committee. - The functions of the Sub-Committee shall include the following :
(a)
Inspection for the approval of the educational institution and teaching hospitals;
(b)
Inspection of institutions and hospitals seeking approval as training institutions for purpose of grant of recognition;
(c)
Submission to the Council as to the extent to which the conditions have been fulfilled in respect of such institutions and
hospitals and furnishing of recommendations for recognition of such institutions;
(d)
Recommendation, if any, for their improvement;
(e)
Any other work specially entrusted by the Faculty.
25. [(a) Examiners should be from amongst those who are qualified to be appointed as teachers on the subject in a
recognised College of Homoeopathic Medicine or have teaching experience in such a college on the relevant subject.]
[Substituted vide Orissa Gazette Part-VII/8-8-1975.]
(b)
Question-setters should be from amongst those who are qualified teachers or recognised Homoeopathic Colleges.
26. The [Board]
[Substituted vide Orissa Gazette Part-VII/5-7-1974.]
examination shall ordinarily be held at Bhubaneswar. For good and sufficient reasons examinations can also be held at
other places.
27. The [Board]
[Substituted vide Orissa Gazette Part-VII/5-7-1974.]
shall have the power to grant the Diploma/ Degree in Homoeopathic Medicine and Surgery to any person who passes
successfully the final examination held at the end of fourth year and after successful completion of house-manship for
six months.
28. The D.H.M.S. Examination will be divided into 3 parts -
(a)
Preliminary science subject, where considered necessary;
(b)
Intermediate D.H.M.S.;
(c)
Final D.H.M.S. Part I, Part II Preliminary examination shall embrace-
Page 10/15
----- PAGE 11 -----
The Orissa Homoeopathic Regulations, 1972
(i)
Physics (one Theoretical paper and one Oral and Practical)
(i)
Anatomy (two Theoretical, one Practical and Oral);
(ii)
Physiology (two Theoretical, one Practical and Oral);
(iii)
Organon (two Theoretical and Oral);
(iv)
Materia Medica (two Theoretical and Oral);
(v)
Homoeopathic Pharmacy (one Theoretical and one Oral and Practical).
(ii)
Chemistry (one Theoretical and one Oral and Practical);
(iii)
Biology (one Theoretical and one Oral and Practical). Intermediate D. H. M. S. Examination shall embrace-
Final D.H.M.S. Examination or Final Part I to be held after the completion of 3rd year, and shall embrace-
(i)
General Pathology, Bacteriology and Parasitology (one Theoretical, one Oral and Practical);
(ii)
Hygiene, Preventive and Social and Medicine and Family Planning (one Theoretical paper, one Oral);
(iii)
Medical Jurisprudence including Toxicology one Theoretical, one Oral examination).
Final D. H. M.'S. or Final Part II to be held after completion of the 4th year shall embrace-
(i)
Practice of Medicine with Homoeopathic Therapeutics (two Theoretical, and one Oral and Practical);
(ii)
Surgery including Opthamology E.N.T. with Homoeopathic Therapeutics (two Theoretical and one Oral and Practical);
(iii)
Midwifery and Gynaecology with Homoeopathic Therapeutics (two Theoretical and one Oral and Practical);
(iv)
Organon of Medicine and Philosophy (two Theoretical and one Oral);
(v)
Homoeopathic Materia Medica and Repertory (two Theoretical and one Oral).
29. The minimum pass marks in every subject will be 40 per cent in the Theoretical and 40 per cent in Oral and Practical
and 45 per cent in aggregate of the Theory and Practical papers taken together.
30. The candidates who have passed P. U. or P. P. with Physics, Chemistry and Biology are exempted from appearing
in the Preliminary Examination.
31. The examination shall be written, Oral and Practical of every subject.
32. The examination shall be held ordinarily in November and May of each year. The date fixed shall be notified
sufficiently in advance by the Secretary.
33. Failure to pass in any examination will not debar a candidate from appearing at any subsequent examination on the
submission of a new application and on payment of fresh fee. The student will be allowed provisional promotion to the
next higher class, Provided he has not failed in more than 50 per cent of the subjects of that class and has not received
below 25 per cent mark in the aggregate in all subjects (both Practical and Theoretical papers).
34. [The student provisionally promoted has to pass in the subjects he had failed, in the two successive examinations
next to his provisional promotion failing which his name will be struck off.
Further that a student who has not passed in all subjects in the previous examinations, shall not be entitled to sit for
Final Part II examination.]
[Substituted vide Orissa Gazette Part-VII/8-8-1975.]
35. In case of extreme hardship, Faculty on the recommendation of the Examination Sub-Committee may consider
Page 11/15
----- PAGE 12 -----
The Orissa Homoeopathic Regulations, 1972
allowing grace marks not exceeding 20 per cent of the total marks.
36. The fees payable in advance to the Secretary of the Faculty according to the date fixed by him will be at the
following rates :
Rs.
(a)
Preliminary
[25]
[Substituted vide Orissa Gazette Part-VII/8-8-1975.]
(b)
Intermediate D. H. M. S.
[35]
[Substituted vide Orissa Gazette Part-VII/8-8-1975.]
(c)
Final Part I
[45]
[Substituted vide Orissa Gazette Part-VII/8-8-1975.]
(d)
Final Part II
[55]
[Substituted vide Orissa Gazette Part-VII/8-8-1975.]
(e)
One subject
[16]
[Substituted vide Orissa Gazette Part-VII/8-8-1975.]
37. Fees once paid shall not be refunded or held in reserve for a future examination except in case of illness of a
candidate ; provided an application for the refund is made so as to reach the office of the Board at least 4 days before
the date of commencement of the examination. Such application should be supported by a Medical Certificate.
38. The written, oral, practical examinations will be held as per the decision of Examination Sub-Committee and the
date, place and time will be duly notified by the Secretary.
39. Oral and practical examination will be held together. The examiner of the Theoretical paper will generally take oral
and practical examination alongwith the internal examiners unless otherwise decided by the Faculty.
40. The remuneration to the examiners shall be as following which can be altered from time to time by the Faculty with
the prior approval of Government:
(a)
Fifty rupees for each question paper set;
(b)
Two rupees for each written answer paper examined and marked subject to the minimum of Rs. 50;
(c)
Rs. 1.50 paise for the oral and practical examination of each candidate in each subject, subject to the minimum of Rs.
25. This will apply both to the internal and external examiners;
(d)
Each Invigilator, Rs. 5 per day;
(e)
Each Chaprasi, [Rs. 1.50 Paise]
[Substituted vide Orissa Gazette Part-VII/8-8-1975.]
per day;
(f)
[ Presiding Officers, Rs. 7 per day;
[Inserted vide Orissa Gazette Part-VII/8-8-1975.]
(g)
Each clerk engaged, Rs. 3 per day.]
Page 12/15
----- PAGE 13 -----
The Orissa Homoeopathic Regulations, 1972
41. T. A. for journeys performed by the examiners, who are Government servants and come to conduct the Faculty
Examinations shall be paid to them in accordance with the T. A. Rules of the State Government. Nonofficial Examiners'
will get T. A. at the rates admissible to non-official members of Committee and conferences laid down under Finance
Department Resolution No. 6991-F., dated the 23rd September, 1947. Examiners who are retired Government servants
will get T. A. at the rates which they were drawing prior to their retirement.
Form No. 1 (S. H. F. U.)
The Preliminary Examination
To
The Secretary to the State Homoeopathic Faculty, Utkal.
(Through the Principal, Government Homoeopathic Medical College, Bhubaneswar)
I request permission to appear at the ensuing Preliminary Examination for the Licence of the State Homoeopathic
Faculty, Utkal.
The fee of Rs...........only is forwarded herewith.
Name in full (Block letters).......
Father's name..........
Race and religion.........
Homoeopathic Institution...........
Age on the first day of the month of the year of examination.....
General education examination in Arts or Science passed with date of passing.
Permanent address...........
Date of birth........
Date of application.........
Marks of identification.........
Signature of candidate..........
Note - Re-examination fee is-
(a)
Whole or more than one subject-Rs. 10
(b)
One subject-Rs. 7
Certificate
I certify that .....have fulfilled the requirement contemplated under the rules pertaining to the Preliminary Examination
and that I know nothing against his moral character.
The..........20........
Principal
This certificate has to be signed by the Principal of the Institute at which the candidate has studied.
Form No. 2 (S. H. F. U.)
1st.
Homoeopathic Examination
The Secretary to the State Homoeopathic Faculty, Utkal.
I request permission to appear at the ensuing 1st Homoeopathic Examination for Licence of the State Homoeopathic
Faculty, Utkal.
The fee of Rs..........(......... ) only is forwarded herewith.
Name in full (Block letters) ......
Father's name...........
Race and religion...........
Homoeopathic Institute .........
Date of passing the Preliminary Examination (or any equivalent
Examination, state name of Examination)............
Permanent address...........
Date of application.........
Signature of candidate..........
Page 13/15
----- PAGE 14 -----
The Orissa Homoeopathic Regulations, 1972
Note-Re-examination fee is.........
(a)
Whole or more than one subject                                      Rs..........
(b)
One subject                                                                        Rs .........
Certificate
I certify that ......... has fulfilled the requirements contemplated under the rules pertaining to the 1st Homoeopathic
Examination and that I know nothing against his/her moral character. I believe the above account to be true.
The...........20......
Principal
This certificate has to be signed by the Principal of the Institute at which the candidate has studied.
Form No. 3 (S. H. F. U.)
The Final Homoeopathic Examination
The Secretary to the State Homoeopathic Faculty, Utkal.
I request permission to appear at the ensuing Final Homoeopathic Examination for the Licence of the State
Homoeopathic Faculty, Utkal.
The fee of Rs...........(..........) only is forwarded herewith.
Name in full (Block letters)  .....
Father's name...........
Race and religion...........
Homoeopathic Institute..........
Age on the first day of the month of the year of Examination......
Date of passing the 1st Homoeopathic Examination (or any equivalent examination, state name of the
examination)............
Permanent address...........
Date of birth........
Date of application.........
Marks of identification.........
Signature of candidate..........
Note - Re-examination fee is.........
(a)
Whole or more than one subject                                      Rs...........
(b)
One subject                                                                        Rs...........
Certificate
I certify that........has fulfilled the requirements contemplated under the rule pertaining to the Final Homoeopathic
Examination and that I know nothing against his/her moral character. I believe the above account to be true.
The ....20..............
Principal
This certificate has to be signed by the Principal of the School at which the candidate has studied.
Form No. 4 (S. H. F. U.)
Examination for the Licence of the State Homoeopathic Faculty, Utkal
Results in Practical Examination Place of Examination.............
Date of Practical and Oral Examination...........
Signature of External Examiner..........
Signature of Tutorial.......
Subject..........
Serial No.
Roll No.
Written
100
Page 14/15
----- PAGE 15 -----
The Orissa Homoeopathic Regulations, 1972
Oral and Practical
100
Total
1
2
3
4
5
N. B. - Pass marks 40 per cent in written and 40 per cent in Practical and Oral and 50 per cent in aggreate.
Internal Examiner
External Examiner
Form No. 5 (S. H. F. U.)
Form of Licence for the Licentfateship of the State Homoeopathic Faculty, Utkal
Seal :
We the President and members of the State Homoeopathic Faculty, Utkal, have under the authority vested in us by the
statutes of the said Faculty admitted...........to be a Licentiate of the State Homoeopathic Faculty, Utkal, and have
granted him/her out licence under the said statutes to practise Homoeopathic System of Medicine (.............)
Surgery...........(..........) Supplemented by Modern Medical Science (Theoretical and Practical and Oral).
Obey the rules and regulations of the State Homoeopathic Faculty, Utkal relating to Licentiates.
Date of..........the day of........in the year Two thousand and..........
Signed on behalf of the members of the State Homoeopathic Faculty, Utkal.
President
State Homoeopathic Faculty,
Utkal
Secretary
Seal
Signature of the holder...........
Full name.............
Father's name............
Religion..........
Caste............
Village and Post Office...........
District.........
Date of birth.........
Marks of identification
Form No. 6 (S. H. F. U.)
(To be filled in by the question setter)
1. Name ..........
2. Designation and address.............
3. I am willing to set questions on the subject as desired by you in your letter No..........dated, and........
4. I hereby declare that I will not keep any copy of the question set by me..........
5. Signature
Form No. 7 (S. H. F. U.)
(To be filled in by the examiner)
1. Name...........
2. Designation and address.............
3. That I am willing to be an examiner and that none of my relations is appearing at the examination............
4. That I shall abide by the rules of Faculty and of examination regulations and that I am not taking any private coaching
of the candidates............
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 15/15