
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Orissa Opium Smoking Act, 1947
The Orissa Opium Smoking Act, 1947
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/129524118/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Odisha - Act
The Orissa Opium Smoking Act, 1947
ODISHA
India
The Orissa Opium Smoking Act, 1947
Act 16 of 1947
Published on 1 January 1947
Commenced on 1 January 1947
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 1947.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Orissa Opium Smoking Act, 1947
Orissa Act
No. 16 of 1947
For Statement of Objects and Reasons, see Orissa Gazette Extraordinary/26-3-1947 and for Proceedings in the
Assembly Proceedings of the Orissa Legislative Assembly-1647 Volume III.
An Act to provide for the control of the practice of opium smoking and to secure the ultimate prohibition of opium
smoking.
Whereas it is expedient to control the practice of opium smoking, to prevent the assembling of persons for the purpose
of such practice and to secure the ultimate prohibition of opium smoking;
It is hereby enacted as follows :
1.
Page 1/5
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Orissa Opium Smoking Act, 1947
Short title, extent and commencement.
(1)
This Act may be called the Orissa Opium Smoking Act, 1947.
(2)
It extends to the whole of the State of Orissa.
(3)
It shall come into force in the Nawapara Sub-division of the district of Sambalpur at once. In other areas of the State the
whole Act with the exception of Section 8 shall come into force on such date as the State Government may, by
notification, appoint in this behalf. At the expiration of one year after the said date-
(a)
Section 8 shall come into force;
(b)
Section 10 shall have effect as if the figure '8' were inserted after the figure '7';
(c)
Section 12 shall have effect as if the figure '8' were inserted after the figure '7'; and
(d)
Sub-sections (1) and (2) of Section 13 shall have effect as if the words "the smoking of opium is carried on in any place
or that" were inserted after the words "has reason to believe that".
2.
Repeal of enactment.
- From the date on which all or any of this Act come into force in any local area or areas, the enactment mentioned
against such area or areas in the Schedule to this Act shall cease, to be in force in such area or areas.
3.
Definitions.
- In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context-
(a)
"collector" includes any officer whom the State Government may, by notification, declare or appoint to be a Collector for
the purpose of this Act;
(b)
"opium" means chandu, madak and every preparation or admixture of opium which may be used for smoking and
includes dross and other residues remaining when opium has been smoked;
(c)
"place" includes a building, house, shop, booth, tent, vessel, raft, vehicle and enclosure, and any part thereof;
(d)
"prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this Act.
4.
Opium smoking assembly.
- An assembly of two of more persons is designated an 'opium smoking assembly' if the common object of the persons
composing that assembly is to smoke opium or to prepare opium for smoking purposes.
Explanation. - An assembly which was not an opium smoking assembly when it assembled may subsequently become
such an assembly.
5.
Member of opium smoking assembly.
- Whoever being aware of facts which render an assembly an opium smoking assembly intentionally joins that assembly,
or continues therein is said to be a member of that assembly.
6.
Presumption from the presence of opium and opium smoking apparatus.
- If in any place where two or more persons are assembled, there are found opium and any pipe or apparatus for the
smoking of opium or apparatus for the preparation of opium, a Court shall presume, unless and until the contrary is
proved, that such persons have assembled at such place for the purpose of smoking opium or of preparing opium for
smoking purposes.
Page 2/5
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Orissa Opium Smoking Act, 1947
7.
Penalty for being member of opium smoking assembly.
- Whoever is a member of an opium smoking assembly shall be punishable with imprisonment which may extend to one
year or with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees or with both.
8.
Penalty for smoking opium and for possessing opium, etc.
(1)
It shall be an offence for any person-
(a)
to possess or smoke opium; or
(b)
to possess any pipe or apparatus for the purpose of smoking opium or of preparing opium for smoking purposes.
(2)
Any person who commits an offence under Sub-section.(1) shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may
extend to one year or with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees or with both; and any person who abets such
offences shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three months or with fine which may
extend to five hundred rupees or with both.
9.
Penalty for opening, keeping or having charge of place used for opium smoking assembly.
- Whoever opens, keeps or uses any place, or permits any place to be opened, kept or used for the purposes of an
opium smoking assembly, or has the care or management of, or in any way assists in conducting the business of any
place used or kept for the purposes aforesaid shall be punishable with imprisonment which may extend to one year or
with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees or with both.
10.
Enhancement of punishment on second conviction.
- Whoever having been previously convicted of an offence under Section 7 or Section 9 is again convicted of an offence
under this Act shall be liable to be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one thousand rupees or
with both.
11.
Penalty when owner fails to give notice of use of place for opium smoking assembly.
- Whoever being the owner, occupier or in charge of any place and knowing or having reason to believe that such place
is being or is about to be used for the purpose of an opium smoking assembly, intentionally omits, either himself or
through his agent or manager, to give the earliest possible notice of such knowledge or belief to the nearest Magistrate
or to the officer-in-charge of the nearest police-station or to an Excise Officer shall be. punishable with fine which may
extend to five hundred rupees.
12.
Penalty in default of payment of fine.
- When fine is imposed under Section 7, 9 or 10, the convicting Magistrate shall direct the offender to be imprisoned in
default of payment of fine for a term which may extend to six months and such imprisonment shall be in excess of any
other imprisonment to which he may have been sentenced.
13.
Search warrants and power to search.
(1)
If a Magistrate of the first or second class upon information received and after such enquiry if any as he considers
necessary has reason to believe that any place is used for the purposes of an opium smoking, assembly or of keeping
opium, he may-
(a)
enter any such place by day or night with any persons whose assistance such officer may consider necessary;
(b)
search all parts of such place in which such officer has reason to believe that any opium or any apparatus for the
preparation of opium smoking is concealed and all or any person he may find in such place;
Page 3/5
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Orissa Opium Smoking Act, 1947
(c)
arrest any person found in such place whom he has reason to believe to be guilty of an offence under this Act;
(d)
seize all opium and apparatus for opium smoking or for preparation of opium which may be found in such place; or
(e)
give an authority by special warrant under his hand, when in his discretion he shall think fit, to any Excise or Police
Officer, not being below the tank of a Sub inspector, authorising him to do any of the acts specified in Clause (a), (b), (c)
or (d) of this subsection.
(2)
Whenever any Excise or Police Officer, not being below the rank of a Sub-Inspector, has reason to believe that any
place is used for the purposes of an opium smoking assembly or of keeping opium and that a search warrant cannot be
obtained without affording the offenders an opportunity of escape or of concealing evidence of the offence, he may after
recording the grounds of his belief do any of the acts specified in Clause (a), (b), (c) or (d) of Sub-section (1).
14.
Application of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898, to warrants and searches.
- The provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (V of 1898) shall apply to the execution of warrants issued and
searches made under Section 13.
15.
Report to be made in case of arrest or seizure.
- Whenever any officer makes any arrest or seizure under this Act, he shall within twenty-four hours next after such
arrest or seizure, make a full report of all particulars thereof to his immediate official superior; and every person arrested
and thing seized shall be forwarded without delay to the officer by whom the warrant was issued or to the nearest police
station.
16.
Bail and security.
- When any person arrested under this Act is prepared to furnish bail, he shall be released on bail or, at the discretion of
the officer making the arrest, on his own bond.
17.
Aid to Excise Officers.
- Every Revenue Officer, or Police officer, every village headman and every village watchman shall be bound to give
reasonable aid to any Excise Officer carrying out the provisions of this Act upon notice given and request made.
18.
Confiscation or destruction of opium and things seized on conviction.
- On the conviction of any person for an offence under this Act the Court may order that any opium or any instrument or
apparatus in respect of, or by means of which such offence has been committed or any receptacle, package or covering
in which such opium, instrument or apparatus was found and any other contents of such receptacle, package or
covering shall be confiscated or destroyed.
19.
Confiscation or destruction of opium and things seized.
- Any opium or other things liable to confiscation under the provisions of the Opium Act, 1878 (I of 1878) or any other
law for the time being in force relating to opium, or any apparatus for preparation of opium or for opium smoking seized
in accordance with the provisions of this Act shall be confiscated or destroyed.
20.
[x x x].
21.
Cognizance of offences.
- No Magistrate shall take cognizance of an offence punishable under this Act except on the complaint or report of the
Collector or an Excise Officer or a Police Officer not being below the rank of a Sub-Inspector.
22.
Bar of certain suits.
- No suit shall lie in any Civil Court against the Government or any servant of the Government for any act in good faith
Page 4/5
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Orissa Opium Smoking Act, 1947
done or ordered to be done in pursuance of this Act.
23.
Limitation of suits and prosecutions.
- No Civil Court shall try any suit against the Government or any servant of the Government in respect of anything done
or alleged to have been done in pursuance of this Act and no Criminal Court shall take cognizance of any offence under
this Act against any person unless the suit or prosecution, as the case may be, is instituted within six months from the
date of the act complained of :
Provided that the State Government may sanction the prosecution of any person for an offence under this Act even after
the expiry of the said period of six months.
24.
Tender of pardon to accused person turning approver.
(1)
Whenever two or more persons are prosecuted for an offence under this Act, the provisions relating to tender or pardon
contained in Section 306 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 shall apply, notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained in the said Code.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 5/5