
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Orissa Local Authorities Census Expenses Contribution Act, 1949
The Orissa Local Authorities Census Expenses Contribution Act,
1949
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/169481324/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Odisha - Act
The Orissa Local Authorities Census Expenses Contribution Act, 1949
ODISHA
India
The Orissa Local Authorities Census Expenses Contribution Act, 1949
Act 4 of 1949
Published on 1 January 1949
Commenced on 1 January 1949
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 1949.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Orissa Local Authorities Census Expenses Contribution Act, 1949
Orissa Act
No. 4 of 1949
Published vide Orissa Gazette Extraordinary 6.5.1949.
An Act to provide for contribution by Local authorities of a portion of the expenses to be incurred in connection with the
taking of census, and for certain other purposes.
Preamble. - Whereas it is expedient to provide for contribution by Local authorities of a portion of the expenses to be
incurred in connection with the taking of census and for certain other purposes it is hereby enacted as follows :
1.
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Orissa Local Authorities Census Expenses Contribution Act, 1949
Short title, extent and commencement.
(1)
This Act may be called the Orissa Local Authorities Census Expenses Contribution Act, 1949.
(2)
It extends to the whole of the Province of Orissa.
(3)
It shall come into force at once.
2.
Definitions.
- ln this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context-
(a)
"census" means census taken in accordance with the provisions of the Census Act, 1948 (XXXVII of 1948);
(b)
"prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this Act.
3.
Power in regard to expenses.
- Notwithstanding anything contained in any enactment in regard to the funds of any Local authority, the Provincial
Government may direct that such portion of any expenses, as may be prescribed, incurred for anything done in
accordance with the Census Act, 1948 (XXXVII of 1948) or the rules made thereunder may be charged to the funds of
any Local authority constituted for and on behalf of the area within which such expenses were incurred.
4.
Obligation of Local authority to give assistance.
- Every Local authority shall be bound to give such assistance in connection with a census as it may be called upon to
give by an order made under Section 6 of the Census Act, 1948 (XXXVII of 1948).
5.
Power to enforce orders.
- If the Provincial Government after receiving a report from the District Magistrate or the Superintendent of Census is
satisfied that a Local authority has made default in performing any duty imposed on it by or under this Act or the Census
Act, 1948 (XXXVII of 1948) or has failed to make payment of expenses or cost as required by or under Section 3 of this
Act or Section 16 of the Census Act, 1948 (XXXVII of 1948) the Provincial Government may make such orders and take
such steps as it may consider expedient for securing performance of such duties or the payment of such expenses or
costs, as the case may be.
6.
Power of Provincial Government to make rules.
(1)
That Provincial Government may make rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.
(2)
In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for all or any of the
following matters, namely:
(a)
the portion of the expenses incurred in connection with the taking of census which may be charged under this Act to the
Funds of any Local authority;
(b)
the manner in which such charged under this Act shall be computed and paid;
(c)
the manner in which and the extent to which any duty connected with census may be performed by a Local authority.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2