
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Orissa Identification of Prisoners Rules, 1950
The Orissa Identification of Prisoners Rules, 1950
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/50641103/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Odisha - Act
The Orissa Identification of Prisoners Rules, 1950
ODISHA
India
The Orissa Identification of Prisoners Rules, 1950
Rule THE-ORISSA-IDENTIFICATION-OF-PRISONERS-RULES-1950 of 1950
Published on 21 December 1950
Commenced on 21 December 1950
[This is the version of this document from 21 December 1950.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Orissa Identification of Prisoners Rules, 1950
Published vide Notification No. 20957-JIs, dated 21st December, 1950, Orissa Gazette Extraordinary Part 3/19.1.1951
Notification No. 20957-JIs, dated 21st December, 1950. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 8 of the
Identification of Prisoners Act, 1920 (XXXIII of 1920), the Governor of Orissa is pleased to make the following rules for
the purpose of carrying into effect the provisions of the said Act, namely :
1.
Short title.
(1)
These rules may be called the Orissa Identification of Prisoners Rules, 1950.
(2)
They shall come into force at once.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Orissa Identification of Prisoners Rules, 1950
2.
Definitions.
- In these rules unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context-
(a)
"Act" means the Identification of Prisoners Act, 1920;
(b)
words and expressions used in these rules shall have the same meaning as assigned to them in the Act.
3.
Taking of photographs or measurements.
(a)
Every person if so required shall allow his photograph or measurements to be taken under Section 3 or 4 under the
direction of a Police Officer.
(b)
Photographs of persons required under Section 3 shall only be taken by order of an officer not being below the rank of
Superintendent of Police or of a Gazetted Officer-in-charge during his absence.
Note. - "Police Officer" means an Officer-in-charge of a police station, a Police Officer making an investigation under
Chapter XIV of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898, or any other Police Officer not being below the rank of a
Sub-Inspector.
4.
Places at which measurements and photographs may be taken.
(1)
Measurements and photographs may be taken-
(a)
in jails when the person whose photograph or measurement is to be taken is in the jail;
(b)
at a police-station or at any other place at which the Police Officer may direct the taking of photograph or measurements
if the person whose photograph or measurement is to be taken is in police custody;
(c)
at Magistrate's Court when the person is in Magistrate's custody;
(2)
If the person whose photograph or measurements are to be taken has been released from jail before his measurements
or photograph has been taken or is not in police custody, he shall on receipt of an order in writing from the
Officer-in-charge of a police-station, attend at such place and time as may be specified in the order and shall allow his
measurements or photograph to be taken.
(3)
In no case shall the photograph and measurements be taken in view of the public.
5.
The nature of measurements that may be taken.
- Measurements shall be taken in the following manner :
(i)
Finger impressions - Finger impressions shall be taken by applying printer's ink to the palmer surface of the fingers and
thumbs above the first joint and then applying the surfaces so inked to a paper form, prepared so as to show the
impression of each finger or thumb in the space provided for it ;
(ii)
Foot-print Impressions - Shall ordinarily be taken by applying printer's ink to the sole of the foot and then applying the
inked surface to a sheet of paper and/or by tracing the outline of the foot, with or without shoes or boots, on a sheet of
paper or glass. Foot-print impressions may also be taken, on soft earth for the purpose of making a plaster of paris
mould of the impression ;
(iii)
Height - Measurement of height shall be obtained by making the person to be measured stand erect, bare-footed and
bare-headed, and recording his actual height. Measurement of the whole or any part of the body may be taken.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Orissa Identification of Prisoners Rules, 1950
6.
(a)
The photographs may be taken full face and profile, head, bust or full length.
(b)
As many copies of finger impressions as are required in accordance with the department rules and as many copies of
foot-print impressions as may be necessary in the opinion of the Police Officer taking them, may be taken.
7.
The dress to be worn by a person when being photographed shall be his ordinary everyday attire and not the jail dress,
provided that a professional impersonator may also be photographed in such customs as he had adopted for the
purpose of such impersonation or when the Police Officer under whose direction photograph is taken directs otherwise,
in such other dress. Convicts shall not be allowed to change their appearance when photographs are taken.
Note. - For the purpose of this rule ordinary attire means the dress which the person whose photograph is being taken
was accustomed to wear before his conviction or the dress which he was admitted into the jail.
8.
(a)
Photographs with negatives and finger and foot-print impressions taken under Section 3 shall be preserved in the Finger
Print and Photo Bureau of the Criminal Investigation Department until destroyed in accordance with the departmental
rules.
(b)
Spare copies of photographs may be supplied to any Superintendent of Police or his subordinates within whose
jurisdiction the person committed or is likely to commit an offence.
(c)
Subject to the provisions of Section 7 of the Act photograph taken under Section 5 shall be preserved in the Criminal
Investigation Department or in the office of the Superintendent of Police of the district in which photograph is taken, such
photographs may be destroyed at any time by the Assistant to the Deputy Inspector-General of Police, C.I.D. or the
Superintendent of Police, as the case may be.
9.
The Assistant to the Deputy Inspector-General of Police, C.I.D. may, in his discretion, order reproduction of photographs
taken under these rules in the Criminal Intelligence Gazette. All photozinco blocks prepared in connection with such
publication shall be retained in the Photo Bureau of the Criminal Investigation Department.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3