
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Orissa Rules for the Preparation and Publication of State Text-Books for Primary Schoo...
The Orissa Rules for the Preparation and Publication of State
Text-Books for Primary Schools, 1963
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/190515837/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Odisha - Act
The Orissa Rules for the Preparation and Publication of State Text-Books for Primary Schools, 1963
ODISHA
India
The Orissa Rules for the Preparation and Publication of State Text-Books for Primary Schools, 1963
Rule
THE-ORISSA-RULES-FOR-THE-PREPARATION-AND-PUBLICATION-OF-STATE-TEXT-BOOKS-FOR-PRIMARY-SC
HOOLS-1963 of 1963
Published on 22 August 1963
Commenced on 22 August 1963
[This is the version of this document from 22 August 1963.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Orissa Rules for the Preparation and Publication of State Text-Books for Primary Schools, 1963
Published vide Notification Orissa Gazette Extraordinary No. 538, dated 22.8.1963
1.
Short title.
- These rules may be called the Orissa Rules for Preparation and Publication of State Text-Books for Primary Schools,
1963.
2.
Page 1/11
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Orissa Rules for the Preparation and Publication of State Text-Books for Primary Schoo...
Definitions.
- ln these rules, unless the context otherwise requires-
(a)
"Board" means the Board of Primary Education, Orissa;
(b)
"Convener" means the Convener of the Working Committee or of the Scrutiny Committee, as the case may be;
(c)
"Secretary" means Secretary of the Press, Preparation and Publication Committee constituted under the Board of
Primary Education, Orissa.
3.
Formation of a Working Committee.
- Government shall appoint a Working Committee consisting of the following seven members in order to assist in the
preparation and publication of text-books-
(1)
The Director of Public Instruction, Orissa Cuttack
...
Chairman
(2)
The Principal of the R.N.Training College, Cuttack
...
Member
(3)
Superintendent, Government Press, Cuttack, Orissa
...
Member
(4)
Officer-in-charge of the Text-Books Press, Bhubaneswar
...
Member
(5)
and (6) Two persons to be appointed by Government on the
recommendation of the Secretary
...
Members
(7)
The Secretary
...
Convener
Quorum-Three members out of seven shall form a quorum for the transactions of business of the Working Committee.
4.
In the absence of the Chairman the members present shall elect one of them to preside over a meeting of the Working
committee.
5.
Constitution of Scrutiny Committee.
- On the recommendation of the Working Committee Government shall appoint a Scrutiny Committee for scrutinising the
manuscripts. The Scrutiny Committee shall consist of five members who will be experts, each of them representing at
least one of the five subjects, namely, Oriya, Arithmetic, English, Social Studies and General Science, of the primary
syllabus. Three members shall form the quorum. The Secretary shall be the convener. At each meeting of this Scrutiny
Committee the members present shall choose the President. The Scrutiny Committee may co-opt, if necessary, to more
than one subject expert for each subject to assist them while scrutinising the manuscripts on a particular subject. No
person who has submitted a manuscript in any subject shall be so co-opted. Post facto sanction of Government to the
Page 2/11
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Orissa Rules for the Preparation and Publication of State Text-Books for Primary Schoo...
co-option of subject experts from outside shall be taken the Scrutiny Committee shall hold office for a period of two
years and a fresh Committee shall be appointed at the end of every two years.
6.
The duties and functions of the Working Committee.
- The Working Committee shall prepare the manuscript on each subject with the help of the writer, the compiler, if any,
and the artist and submit the completed copy to the Press, Preparation and Publication Committee for consideration.
7.
The Press, Preparation and Publication Committee shall consider and recommend the size of the book, number of
pages, quality of paper, kind of printing and number of copies to be printed in respect of each book and submit the
selected manuscripts with their recommendations to Government in the Education Department for approval and issue of
print orders. The recommendations of the Working Committee shall be placed before the Board in its next meeting for
information.
8.
The names of the writers, of the members of the Working Committee or of the members of the Scrutiny Committee shall
not appear on the Text-Book. The books shall mention the Government of Orissa, Department of Education, as the
publisher and the name of the press in which the book is printed.
9.
Calling for manuscripts for the text-books
- (i) At the time appropriate for calling for manuscripts for the text-books the convener shall prepare an advertisement in
consultation with the Working Committee, calling for manuscripts from writers. The advertisement duly approved by
Government shall be published in the Orissa Gazette and also in three consecutive issues of all the recognised daily
newspapers of Orissa.
(ii)
The writers shall be allowed a period of three months for the submission of their manuscripts.
(iii)
The advertisement shall contain a notice to the writers to the effect that on their written application to the Secretary,
accompanied by a Treasury Challan for Rs. 10 (Rupees ten) only deposited in a Treasury or Sub-Treasury under the
head "Provincial (Orissa)-XXII-Education-E-General-Miscellaneous", the syllabus, the synopses, the prescribed forms,
the rules and other connected papers will be sent or given to them by the Secretary.
10.
On receipt of such an application the Secretary shall send to the applicant by Registered Post or give him all the papers
mentioned in Rule 9 above, one large envelope and one small envelope with particulars of Appendix-I superscribed
thereon.
11.
All such applications shall be entered in a register in the office of the Secretary and numbered serially as they are
received. The acknowledgment to be granted to the applicant shall bear the serial number of his application and will be
in the form prescribed in Appendix-II.
12.
If any particular writer so desires, he may either personally or through a messenger make over the application along with
the challan for Rs. 10 to the Secretary and receive the acknowledgement and the necessary papers.
13.
No member of the Press, Preparation and Publication Committee or of the Working Committee or of the Scrutiny
Committee (Rule 5) or of the staff connected with their work shall be entitled to submit any manuscript for approval as a
text-book. But if any such member gives a written undertaking to the Secretary to the effect that he will not claim any
award for his manuscript in case of its approval, such a manuscript shall be considered along with all other manuscripts
submitted for competition, but the membership of such a member shall by orders of Government, remain suspended for
the entire period from the date of submission of the manuscript till the final disposal of the matter.
14.
If any person, who has submitted a manuscript for the competition, is subsequently appointed as a member of the
Scrutiny Committee, he shall intimate the fact of the submission of the manuscript to the convener in a confidential letter
addressed to him by name immediately after he has received intimation of his appointment as member of the Scrutiny
Page 3/11
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Orissa Rules for the Preparation and Publication of State Text-Books for Primary Schoo...
Committee. Soon after the convener receives any such letter, he shall place the fact before the Working Committee who
shall take steps for appointment of a substitute in his place.
15.
The writer shall send the manuscript by Registered Post to the Secretary by name.
16.
As soon as the packet containing the manuscript is received, the Secretary shall enter in his Register giving it a serial
number without opening it, and he shall mention this serial number in the printed acknowledgement (Appendix-II) which
he shall grant to the writer or sender of the manuscript and retain its counter-foil in the office. The Secretary shall send
the aforesaid acknowledgement by Registered Post to the address furnished by the writer.
17.
The name, address, etc., of the sender of the manuscript shall also be mentioned in the aforesaid acknowledgement.
18.
The writer shall not mention anywhere in the manuscript his name, address or any such particulars or matters as would
disclose his identity, but he shall mention on the cover of the manuscript the symbolical name used by him in the
prescribed form (Appendix-III).
19.
The writer shall mention in the prescribed form (Appendix-III) his name, address, etc., and a symbolical name. Such a
symbolical name may be that of any flower, fruit or other object. After having filled up all the particulars in that prescribed
form, the writer shall put it inside the small envelope and then seal it. Thereafter he shall put it inside the larger envelope
and close it. On both these envelopes, the subject and the class for which the manuscript is meant as given in
Appendix-I shall have been printed. The writer shall fill up only the blank spaces under the headings and he shall not
write anything else on them. Thereafter the writer shall put the large envelope containing the small envelope and the
manuscript in a packet, seal it and send it to the Secretary by name. The covering for the packet will be supplied by the
writer himself.
20.
The Secretary shall keep the unopened packets in his personal custody under lock and key. No manuscript shall be
entertained after the last date fixed for receipt of manuscripts.
21.
Soon after the last date fixed for the submission of manuscripts is over, the number of manuscripts received should be
reported to Government through the Director of Public Instruction for information. The Working Committee shall meet
and open the packets in the manner prescribed in Rule 24. The conveyor shall give notice of at least seven days to the
members, for this meeting.
22.
(i)
At first, the members of the Working Committee present shall compare the number of the packets produced by the
convener with the entries made in the Register and check up the serial numbers. Then they will sign the Register in
token of the fact that all the manuscripts received and mentioned in his register are available for scrutiny.
(ii)
Thereafter the packets will be opened and the members present will mention on the back of each page of one of the two
manuscripts submitted, the serial number allotted to it and they will also put their signature and date on the last page of
that manuscript. Simultaneously they will also open the larger envelope and mention on the smaller envelope the serial
number allotted to the manuscript concerned and the symbolical name adopted by the writer. The small envelope shall,
however, remain unopened until the best manuscript has been selected by the Press, Preparation and Publication
Committee,
23.
A fee of Rs. 30 (Rupees thirty) only shall be paid as fee for submission of complete manuscript for a book and Rs. 15
(rupees fifteen) only for a part manuscript covering less than half a book. For half or more than half of the book Rs. 30
shall be payable. The authors, compilers or publishers while submitting manuscripts shall enclose a Treasury Challan
showing deposit of the above fee. The fees shall be credited in a Treasury or Sub-Treasury under the head "Provincial
(Orissa)-XXVI-Education-E-General -Miscellaneous". The manuscripts shall be submitted in duplicate.
24.
Page 4/11
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Orissa Rules for the Preparation and Publication of State Text-Books for Primary Schoo...
If a writer exercises or attempts to exercise any influence on any member of the Working Committee or of the Scrutiny
Committee or of the Press, Preparation and Publication Committee in order to get his manuscript approved or indulges
in canvassing for the same, the Working Committee, on receipt of satisfactory proof in support of such act or acts and
after giving a chance to the writer to explain, may direct that his manuscript shall not be taken into consideration.
25.
No part of the proceedings of the Working Committee or of the Scrutiny Committee shall be vitiated on account of the
absence of any member of such Committee provided that there has been a quorum.
26.
Allowance for attending meetings of the Committee.
- ln view of the arduous nature of the work involved, every member (except the convener) of the Working Committee or
of the Scrutiny Committee whether official or non-official shall receive an allowance of Rs. 10 for attending each sitting of
the Committee. The amount of Sitting fee payable to any member of the Working or Scrutiny Committee shall be subject
to a maximum of Rs. 500 in a financial year. The duration of each sitting should ordinarily be not less than three hours.
Members coming to attend the meetings from outside shall be paid travelling allowance (without any daily allowance),
according to the rules in vogue. The Secretary shall pay the allowance to the members present immediately after each
meeting is over from contingencies placed at his disposal. For drawal of travelling allowance, a travelling allowance bill
shall be submitted to the convener in accordance with the rules.
27.
Scrutiny of manuscripts.
- The convener shall call meetings of the Working Committee or of the Scrutiny Committee as and when necessary and
he shall give at least 7 days' written notice for the meeting. In case of urgency the convener may hold two sittings of the
Scrutiny Committee in a day with an interval of at least 3 hours. Emergent meetings may be called at short notice. No
previous notice will be issued for holding an adjourned meeting but members, who were not present in the meeting
which was adjourned, will be notified about the date and time of the adjourned meeting.
28.
After completing the scrutiny of the manuscripts, the Scrutiny Committee shall record their opinion on each manuscript in
the form prescribed for it (Appendix-IV). As soon as they come to the conclusion that a particular manuscript is the best
among those submitted, they will record their opinion in the form of a resolution in the Minute-Book stating clearly the
serial number of the selected manuscript and the symbolical name of the writer. The resolution shall be signed by all the
members present and handed over to the convener who shall send the resolution to the convener of the Working
Committee. The convener of the Working Committee shall place the resolution before a meeting of the Working
Committee, which shall consider the recommendations of the Scrutiny Committee and come to a decision. The Working
Committee shall also record its decision in the shape of a resolution in the Minute-Book. It shall be signed by all the
members present and made over to the convener who shall, thereafter, place it before the Press, Preparation and
Publication Committee for acceptance and onward recommendation to Government for approval.
29.
If scrutiny by the Scrutiny Committee discloses that none of the manuscripts received is acceptable, for reasons to be
recorded by them in the Prescribed Form (Appendix-IV), the Scrutiny Committee shall record such opinion in the shape
of a resolution and make it over to the convener. The Working Committee shall examine the matter and advise the
Secretary to take necessary steps for the preparation of a suitable manuscript in accordance with a scheme to be
approved by Government.
30.
After receipt of the report of the Working Committee final recommendation regarding payment of the award to the writer
of the best manuscript shall be made to Government by the Press Preparation and Publication Committee. On receipt of
Government sanction, the awards shall be paid to the writers concerned. The grant of such award shall be reported to
the Board of Primary Education in its next meeting.
31.
An amount not exceeding Rs. 10,000 subject to the deduction of the amount that has to be paid to the expert, if any
(Rule 34) shall be paid to the writer/writers of the best manuscript of a text book on each subject for the purchase of the
copyright.
32.
Page 5/11
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Orissa Rules for the Preparation and Publication of State Text-Books for Primary Schoo...
The writer of the best manuscripts shall transfer to the Government" of Orissa in the Education Department his copyright
over the manuscript by a dead of assignment. He shall also give an undertaking that he shall have no objection to. any
addition, alteration or omission being made which may be considered necessary by the Scrutiny Committee or the
Working Committee or both. The deed of assignment shall be made in the form given in Appendix-X.
33.
The Scrutiny Committee and the Working Committee shall have the right to make necessary additions, alterations and
omissions in any manuscript so assigned in order to satisfy the requirements of the syllabus.
34.
If it becomes necessary to make such additions, omissions or alterations in the selected manuscript, as would involve a
lot of time and labour, it will be open to the Working Committee to got such work done by an expert in the subject. In
such an event, the expert selected would be given remuneration for the work done which shall be sanctioned by
Government on the recommendation of the Press Preparation and Publication Committee.
35.
If the Scrutiny Committee and the Working Committee consider that two or more manuscripts are of equal merit, or any
manuscript contains some matter or outstanding merit, which is not found in others, it will be open to the Working
Committee to combine portions of each of such manuscripts with the help of an editor in order to produce the best
manuscript on the subject. In such an event, the Working Committee shall decide what proportionate payment out of the
full award should be made to the writers of the manuscripts concerned and to the editor; and after the decision of the
Working Committee on this subject is approved of by the Press, Preparation and Publication Committee, the matter shall
be reported to Government with a recommendation for sanction of proportionate awards. The decision of Government
shall be final and binding.
36.
It shall be open to the Working Committee to decide on the recommendation of the Scrutiny Committee, that a particular
manuscript, which has not conformed to these rules, need not be taken into consideration.
37.
The writers may also submit manuscripts for a part of a text-book or even for a few lessons on suitable topics from the
syllabus for any class in any subject for which manuscripts are invited. Such part manuscripts will be considered in the
same manner as the manuscripts for complete text-books and will, if selected, be eligible for such proportionate award
as will be fixed in the manner prescribed in Rule 35 above.
38.
Instructions to writers of text-books-Writers of text-books are required to observe these rules and abide by the following,
instructions:
(a)
Each manuscript should be written in ink neatly and legibly one side of the paper. In preparing the duplicate copy carbon
paper should not be used.
(b)
The paper to be used for the manuscript should not be of less weightage than ten pounds per ream of foolscap size.
(c)
Each page of the manuscript should be 13" x 8".
(d)
A margin of about two inches in width should be left on the side of the paper used for writing.
(e)
The manuscript should be properly stitched on the left side.
(f)
Each Chapter should have a heading and the pages should be numbered at the right hand top corner of each page.
(g)
Each manuscript should have a thick cover on it.
39.
At the places where pictures, diagrams, charts, maps etc., are necessary, the writer shall draw a square and mention
details of such pictures, etc. inside it. Actual pictures, diagrams etc. may also be given. If the presence of the writer of
the selected manuscript is considered necessary by the artist or the designer for assisting in the drawing up of the
Page 6/11
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Orissa Rules for the Preparation and Publication of State Text-Books for Primary Schoo...
pictures, etc. the writer shall attend the office of the Press, Preparation and Publication Committee or the Press at his
own cost for the purpose of rendering such assistance in accordance with the request of the convener.
40.
No writer shall use in his manuscript any copyright material of any other author without the written permission of the
author if he is alive or of his legal heirs if he is dead. If a writer has used such Copyright material, he shall mention the
fact in the prescribed form (Appendix-III) and enclose with it the written permission in original regarding the copyright.
41.
There shall be no preface, recommendation or opinion of any body attached to the manuscript.
42.
(i)
Every manuscript shall be prepared in accordance with the requirements of the syllabus, the synopsis and these rules.
(ii)
The lessons shall be properly graded and shall be such as can expand the pupils' knowledge arid vision. The lessons
shall contain no such matter as is likely to offend any religious, linguistic political or communal feelings. As far as
practicable, the lessons shall aim, among other things, at creating a scientific and technological bias in the minds of the
pupils.
(iii)
The lessons shall be appropriate to the standard for which the manuscript is intended.
(iv)
The language of the book shall be appropriate to the class and shall be simple, clear and free from mistakes both
grammatical and factual.
(v)
Each book shall be properly illustrated so as to be attractive to the pupil of the relevant age.
43.
Suitable exercises shall be appended to lessons at proper places. The exercises shall be so framed as would encourage
independent study by the students and would also awaken their power of imagination and the spirit of exploration.
44.
Each writer shall submit two copies of the manuscript for each book on a particular subject intended for a particular
class.
45.
As the mention of the writer's name on the packet as sender may disclose his identity, each writer is advised to use a
code name for the sender of the packet containing the manuscript.
46.
Further instructions, if any, to the writers regarding the manner in which the manuscript shall be prepared or submitted
for consideration may be issued as a result of direction of the Government of Orissa or the Government of India or the
Board of Primary Eduction, Orissa from time to time.
47.
The writers may not enter into correspondence with the office of the Committee or visit it personally or through
representatives asking for information regarding the progress of the scrutiny of their manuscript, result, etc.
48.
The list of books finally selected along with the names of their writers shall be notified in the Orissa Gazette and local
papers.
49.
The decision of Government as to the interpretation of these rules shall be final.
50.
In any case not provided for in these rules the matter shall be referred to Government for their decision.
Appendix-I
[See Rule 10]
A. Matter to be printed on the smaller envelope
1. Subject
2. Class
Page 7/11
----- PAGE 8 -----
The Orissa Rules for the Preparation and Publication of State Text-Books for Primary Schoo...
(The entries below are to be made in the office of the Working Committee and not by the writer)
3. Serial number of the manuscript
4. The symbolical name used by the writer on his manuscript
B. Matter to be printed on the larger envelope
1. The symbolical name used by the writer on his manuscript
2. Subject
3. Class
(The entries below are to be made in the office of the Working Committee and not by the writer)
4. Serial number of the manuscript
5. The date when the manuscript has been received and entered in the Register
Appendix-II
[See Rule 11 ]
Acknowledgement
Acknowledgement
No................
No................
Office of the Press, Preparation and Publication Committee,
Cuttack-2.
Office of the Press, Preparation and Publication Committee,
Cuttack-2.
Received from ...................... of .............
P.O.............. District.................. the following:
Received from ...................... of .............
P.O.............. District.................. the following:
(1) A chalan for Rs. 10 (Rupees ten) only bearing
No. ..... dated ........of Treasury/ Sub-Treasury for supplying
syllabus, etc. His application for them is numbered
................ in my Register.
(1) A chalan for Rs. 10 (Rupees ten) only bearing No. .....
dated ........of Treasury/ Sub-Treasury for supplying syllabus,
etc. His application for them is numbered ................ in my
Register.
(2) A sealed packet said to contain a manuscript in
duplicate on (Subject)................ for class ..............
to which has been allotted serial number.............. in my
Register.
(2) A sealed packet said to contain a manuscript in
duplicate on (Subject)................ for class ..............
to which has been allotted serial number.............. in my
Register.
Date.............
Date.............
SecretaryPress, Preparation andPublication
Committee
SecretaryPress, Preparation andPublication
Committee
Appendix-III
[See Rule 18]
(This form should be put inside the smaller envelope by the writer)
Application form to be used while submitting the manuscript
To
Page 8/11
----- PAGE 9 -----
The Orissa Rules for the Preparation and Publication of State Text-Books for Primary Schoo...
The Secretary
Press, Preparation and Publication Committee,
Board of Education, Orissa, Cuttack-2
I send herewith two copies of my manuscript as per details given below for selection as a text-book. I have read the
Rules Regulating the Preparation and Publication of State Text-Books, 1963 and I undertake to abide by them.
I further declare that I have not used any copyright material in my manuscript or where such copyright material has been
used wholly or in part, I have obtained from the concerned author or publisher or their legal heirs necessary permission,
which is enclosed herewith in original.
Yours faithfullyWriter
Date.........
1. Name given by the Writer to the manuscript
2. Subject
3. Class
4. The symbolical name used on the manuscript
5. Number of pages in the manuscript
6. Name of the writer or of the compiler
7. Enclose copy of the acknowledgment obtained from the Secretary
8. Name of the sender his full address
Village
Post
District
Appendix-IV
[See Rule 28]
Confidential
Report on the scrutiny of the manuscript
Subject
Class
Please record your answer to each question on the space below it citing examples with reference to the page number in
support of your opinion.
Q. 1. (a) The serial number of the manuscript
(b)
The symbolical name of the writer
(c)
Number of pages in the manuscript
(d)
Name given by the writer to the manuscript
Q. 2. (a) Has the manuscript been submitted according to the rules ?
(b)
Has it been written according to the rules ?
(c)
Does it conform to the requirements of the syllabus and of the synopsis ?
Q. 3. (a) Does it contain sufficient material for creating a scientific and technical bias ?
(b)
Is there a variety of suitable topics ?
Q. 4. Does it contain matter which shall promote national integration ?
Q. 5. Are the language, the lessons and/or exercises properly graded ?
Q. 6. Are the language, style of writing and the presentation of subject-matter suitable for the class for which the book is
intended ?
Q. 7. Is the book free from-
(a)
Factual mistakes ?
Page 9/11
----- PAGE 10 -----
The Orissa Rules for the Preparation and Publication of State Text-Books for Primary Schoo...
(b)
Grammatical mistakes ?
(c)
Spelling and punctuation errors ?
Q. 8. (a) Does the manuscript contain a sufficient number of pictures, charts, diagrams, etc., or indications regarding
their preparation? (b) Are the pictures and illustrations suitable and attractive to the children of the age-group for whom
they are intended ?
Q. 9. Is it free from such matters as would encourage casteism, communalism or hatred towards any religion ?
Q.10. Is the manuscript entitled to receive a reward either wholly or partly? If so, give reasons in support of your opinion.
In case you recommend part payment, mention the portions selected and the amount of award recommended.
Q. 11. What addition, alteration or omission, if any, do you suggest in the manuscript you consider entitled to the reward
? Please give details.
Q. 12. The position in order of merit which the Scrutiny Committee assigns to this manuscript.
Q. 13. Signature of the members of the Scrutiny Committee
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
Date................
Report of the Working Committee
1. Recommendation
2. Signature of the members with date
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
Date.............
Appendix-V
Deed of assignment
[See Rule 32]
This deed of assignment is made on the..............day of..............between (hereinafter called the 'author', which
expression unless repugnant to the subject or context shall include his heirs, representatives and assigns) of the one
part ; and the Governor of Orissa (hereinafter called the assigness which expression unless repugnant to the subject or
context shall include his successors, representatives and assigns) of the other part;
Whereas the author under the provisions of the Rules for the Preparation and Publication of State Text-Books, 1963
framed under Government of Orissa, Education Department Resolution No. 19471-E., dated the 20th August, 1963,
submitted the manuscript the work entitled................to the Press, Preparation and Publication Committee;
And whereas an award of Rupees................... has been paid to the author (the receipt of which the author hereby
acknowledges);
And whereas the author has agreed to assign his copyright in the said work to the State Government of Orissa and the
assignee has agreed to purchase the some on the terms and conditions herein stated;
And whereas the author is the compiler and absolute owner of the copyright in the manuscript entitled...........
Now these presents witness and the parties hereby agree as follows:
1. The author warrants that the said work entitled...............is an original work and that he is the owner of the copyright
therein and that he has not granted any interest in the copy-right by licence or otherwise to any person or firm
whatsoever to print or publish the same and that the said work has not been published.
2. That in consideration of the award of Rupees.............the author hereby assigns and transfers all his rights, title and
interest in the said manuscript of the work entitled as............and in the unencumbered copyright thereof thereby
Page 10/11
----- PAGE 11 -----
The Orissa Rules for the Preparation and Publication of State Text-Books for Primary Schoo...
conferring on the assignee the sale and absolute right and privilege of printing all the said manuscript of the work and all
future impressions of the said work and to appropriate all the profits, benefits and advantages arising on accruing in
respect of the use, publication or sale of the said work.
3. The assignee shall also have the right to add, alter, abridge or revise the manuscript of the said work or any part
thereof.
In witness whereof the parties hereto have signed this deed on the dates respectively mentioned below their signatures.
Signature of the author
In the presence of -
Witnesses-
1.2.
Signature of the..................acting inthe
premises and on behalf the Governor.
Witnesses-
1.2.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 11/11