
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Orissa Workmen's Compensation (Occupational Diseases) Rules, 1964
The Orissa Workmen's Compensation (Occupational Diseases) Rules,
1964
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/25971899/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Odisha - Act
The Orissa Workmen's Compensation (Occupational Diseases) Rules, 1964
ODISHA
India
The Orissa Workmen's Compensation (Occupational Diseases) Rules, 1964
Rule THE-ORISSA-WORKMEN-S-COMPENSATION-OCCUPATIONAL-DISEASES-RULES-1964 of 1964
Published on 1 January 1964
Commenced on 1 January 1964
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 1964.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Orissa Workmen's Compensation (Occupational Diseases) Rules, 1964
Published vide Notification No. 4740-VS 46/63 lab.-D/18-1964, Orissa Gazette, Part 3, Page 1093/3.1.1964
No. 4740-VS 46/63 lab.-D/18-1964. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Clauses (p), (q) and (r) of Sub-section (2) of
Section 32 of the Workmen's Compensation Act, 8 of 1923, the Government of Orissa are pleased to make the following
rules, the same having been previously published as required by Sub-section (1), Section 34 of the said Act.
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
This Rule may be called the Orissa Workmen's Compensation (Occupational Diseases) Rules, 1964.
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Orissa Workmen's Compensation (Occupational Diseases) Rules, 1964
2.
Application.
- These rules shall apply to all workmen employed in any employment mentioned in Part C of the Schedule III of the Act.
3.
Definitions.
- In these rules unless the context otherwise requires-
(a)
"Act" means the Workmen's Compensation Act, 8 of 1923;
(b)
"asbestosis" means -
(i)
a pulmonary fibrosis which manifests itself radiologically as a ground glass appearance of the pulmonary field, of
striations or raicular formations more, or less marked, particularly diffuse, at the bases or diffuse stippling or reticulation
over extensive areas of both lung fields, whether or not accompanied by signs of pulmonary tuberculosis, and
(ii)
clinically, by the presence of asbestos bodies in the sputum, accompanied by trachee-bronclitis and emphysema;
(c)
"Bagassosis" means a disease which-
(i)
manifests itself as an acute allergic response due to sensitilation of the individual to bagasse dust, and
(ii)
radiologically, consists of increase in the vascular shadows and increase in haziness and reticulation all over the lungs
and increase in the hilar densities and some mottling and acute phases patchy shadows resembling bronchopneumonia
may be seen;
(d)
"Medical Board" means the Pneumoconiosis Medical Board constituted by the State Government under Rule 4 or any
Medical Board recognised by the State Government for the purpose of these rules;
(e)
"Pneumoconiosis" means silicosis or coalminers pneumoconoisis or asbestosis or begassosis or any of those
accompanied by pulmonary tuberculosis.
4.
Constitution of Pneumoconiosis Medical Board.
(1)
The State Government shall constitute a Pneumoconiosis Medical Board for the conduct of medical examinations,
submission of medical reports and the grant of medical certificates in pursuance of these rules :
Provided that with respect to workmen employed in mines, the State Government may recognise any Medical Board for
the purpose of these rules.
(2)
The Board constituted or recognised under Sub-rule (1) shall consist of three qualified medical practitioners of whom
one shall be a radiologist.
5.
Medical conditions under which Pneumoconius may be considered to be an occupational disease.
(1)
The diagnosis of pneumoconiosis shall be carried out with all the necessary technical guarantees. Proof of the degree of
development of the pathological or anatomical changes in the respiratory and cardiac system shall be furnished by the
radiographic record and other laboratory records, which shall be accompanied by the report of a full clinical examination,
including a report of the industrial history of the person concerned the record of all occupations in which he has been
employed, the nature of the harmful dusts to which he was exposed and the duration of such exposure.
(2)
For entitlement to compensation, silicosis and coalminer's pneumoconiosis shall fulfil the following radiological and
clinical conditions-
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Orissa Workmen's Compensation (Occupational Diseases) Rules, 1964
(a)
the radiological examination of the workmen must reveal-
(i)
the appearance of generalised micronodular or nodular fibrosis covering a considerable part of both lung fields whether
accompanied or not by signs of pulmonary tuberculosis, or not by signs of pulmonary tuberculosis, or not by signs of
pulmonary tuberculosis, or
(ii)
in addition to a marked accentuation of the pattern of both lungs, the appearance of one or several pseudotumoral
fibrotic formation whether accompanied or not by signs or pulmonary tuberculosis, or
(iii)
the appearance of both of these types of fibrotic lesions at once whether accompanied or not by signs of pulmonary
tuberculosis;
(b)
serial radiological pictures taken over a period during periodical medical examination shall, as far as possible be
considered in making definite diagonosis in case where doubt exists;
(c)
radiological interpretation shall be based on the standard interpretation classification laid down by the International
Labour Organisation (Geneva Classification);
(d)
the clinical examination of the workman concerned must reveal a decrease or deterioration of the respiratory function or
cardiac function or a deterioration of the state of general health, caused by the pathological process specified above.
6.
Evaluation of disablement.
(1)
The evaluation of disablement shall be made by reference to the physical (anatomical, physiological and functional) and
mental capacity for the exercise of the necessary functions of a normally occupied life which would be expected in a
healthy person of the same age and sex. For such assessment, recognised cardio-respiratory function tests shall be
used to assess the degree of cardio-respiratory function impatient.
(2)
It shall be determined whether the disablement is temporary or permanent and also the percentage loss of function as it
pertains to the loss of working capacity for receiving compensation.
(3)
Assessment of disablement shall be proportionate to the loss of earning capacity, total disablement being taken to be
100 percent loss of earning capacity.
Explanation. - For the purpose of this rule "permanent disablement" shall mean such disablement as it certified to be
permanent by the Medical Board.
7.
Certification of cases.
(1)
The claims for compensation of any workman contracting a disease specified in Part C of Schedule III of the Act shall be
supported by a certificate issued by a qualified medical practitioner :
Provided that when the contracting of such disease has resulted in permanent disablement such claim shall be
supported by a certificate issued by the Medical Board.
(2)
The certificate issued by a qualified medical practitioner shall contain, the following particulars :
(a)
............is suffering from pneumoioniosis/pneumoconiosis with plumonary tuberculosis and his condition is reasonably
attributable to his employment in..............
(b)
...........is fit for.......... (here certify as to his fitness for work specifying where necessary the kind of employment for which
he is fit).
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Orissa Workmen's Compensation (Occupational Diseases) Rules, 1964
(c)
the general physical and mental capacity of....... is imparted by phemlois/pheumoconiosis with plumonary tuberculosis to
the extent of.......... percent.
(d)
This certificate is issued for a period of............years.
(3)
The certificate issued by the Medical Board shall contain the particulars specified in Clauses (a), (b) and (c) of Sub-rule
(2) and also the following :
'It is certified that the disability of................ is permanent.'
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4