
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Orissa Statistics and Economics Service Rules, 1979
The Orissa Statistics and Economics Service Rules, 1979
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/87003909/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Odisha - Act
The Orissa Statistics and Economics Service Rules, 1979
ODISHA
India
The Orissa Statistics and Economics Service Rules, 1979
Rule THE-ORISSA-STATISTICS-AND-ECONOMICS-SERVICE-RULES-1979 of 1979
Published on 18 June 1979
Commenced on 18 June 1979
[This is the version of this document from 18 June 1979.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Orissa Statistics and Economics Service Rules, 1979
Published vide Notification No. 10339/P./18.6.1979
Notification No. 10339/P., dated 18th June, 1979. - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to Article 309 of
the Constitution of India, the Governor of Orissa is pleased to make the following rules for the regulation of recruitment
to the Orissa Statistics and Economics Service and of conditions of service of persons appointed thereto, namely :
Chapter-I General
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Orissa Statistics and Economics Service Rules, 1979.
(2)
Page 1/20
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Orissa Statistics and Economics Service Rules, 1979
They shall come into force on the date of the publication in the official Gazette.
2.
In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires -
(a)
[ "Directorate" means the "Directorate of Economics and statistics;]
[Substituted vide Orissa Gazette Extraordinary No. 1614/1989.]
(b)
"Commission" means the Orissa Public Service Commission;
(c)
"Departmental Examination" means the Departmental Examination referred to in Rule 22;
(d)
"Government" means the Government of Orissa in the Planning and to-ordination Department;
(e)
"Schedule" means a Schedule appended to these rules;
(f)
"Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes" means such Castes and Tribes as may be so specified by the President
under Articles 341 and 342 of the Constitution of India, respectively;
(g)
"Service" means the Orissa Statistics and Economics Service; and
(h)
"Year" means a calendar year.
Chapter-II Cadre
3.
Composition of the Cadre.
(1)
The Orissa Statistics and Economics Service shall comprise-
(a)
the Orissa Statistics and Economics Service, Class I;
(b)
the Orissa Statistics and Economics Service, Class II;
(2)
[ The Orissa Statistics and Economics Service Class-I shall include the posts of Joint Director Level-I, Joint Director
Level-II, Principal. Statistical Training Institute and Deputy Director in the Directorate of Economics and Statistics and
such other post or posts as Government may from time to time specify in this behalf.
(3)
The Orissa Statistics and Economics Service Class-II shall include the posts of Assistant Director, District Statistical
Officer and Additional District Statistical Officer under the Directorate of Economics and Statistics, post or posts in
respective ranks in other departments, posts of Assistant Director and Research Officer of the Planning and
Co-ordination Department of Government of Orissa which existed prior to the 29th January, 1979, the date on which the
Planning and Coordination Department was reorganised and formed part of the then Evaluation Call of the said
Department and such other post or posts as Government may from time to time specify in this behalf.]
[Substituted vide Orissa Gazette Extraordinary No. 1614/1989.]
(4)
The cadre of the service shall consist of such numbers of permanent and temporary posts as Government may by order
determine.
Explanation. - It shall be competent for the Government to determine from time to time in respect of each branch of the
service, the number of permanent and temporary posts to be included in that branch.
4.
Initial constitution of the Cadre/Cadre authority.
(1)
Government may, after the commencement of these rules, by order specify the posts created primarily for Statistical and
Page 2/20
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Orissa Statistics and Economics Service Rules, 1979
Economic analysis work in any Department of Government to be included in any branch of the service whereupon the
incumbents of such posts will be members of the service in that branch :
Provided that no such order shall be made unless the Commission have been consulted in each case.
(2)
The Planning and Co-ordination Department shall be the cadre authority and shall be competent to delegate such
functions in favour of such authorities as may be specified in that behalf.
5.
Departmental Promotion Committee.
- [(1) There shall be constituted a Departmental Promotion Committee for selection of Officers for promotion to Class-II
and Class-I posts in the Orissa Statistics and Economics Service.
(2)
The Departmental Promotion Committee shall consists of; -
(a)
Additional Development Commissioner and Secretary to
Government. P. and C. Department.
Chairman
(b)
Special Secretary/Additional Secretary to Government P. and C.
Department.
Member
(c)
Director, Economics and Statistics, Orissa.
Member
(d)
Joint Secretary/Deputy Secretary to Government in P. and C.
Department incharge of Gazetted establishment of the Directorate
of Economics and Statistics.
Member-Secretary
(3)
The Committee so constituted shall meet as and when required for selection of officers for promotion to the respective
class and posts.]
[Substituted vide Orissa Gazette Extraordinary No. 1614/1989.]
Chapter-III Recruitment to Orissa Statistics and Economics Service, Class I
6.
Methods of recruitment.
- [(1) Recruitment to the posts of Joint Director Level-I shall ordinarily be made by promotion from amongst the officers
holding the posts of Joint Director Level-II. Recruitment to post of Joint Director Level-II shall ordinarily be made by
promotion from amongst the officers holding the posts of Deputy Director who have completed at least four years of
service as such on the 1st day of August of the year in which the vacancy arises.
(2)
Recruitment to all other posts in the Orissa Statistics and Economics Service Class-I shall ordinarily be made by
promotion from amongst the officers holding the posts of Assistant Director, District Statistical Officer or other equivalent
posts who have completed at least four years of service on the first day of August of the year in which the vacancy
arises.]
[Substituted vide Orissa Gazette Extraordinary No. 1614/1989.]
Explanation. - The expression "equivalent posts" refers to posts carrying equivalent scales of pay.
7.
Appointment to the posts of Joint/Deputy Director.
- [(1) On a vacancy arising in the posts of Joint Director Level-I, Joint Director Level-II, Principal, Statistical Training
Institute, Deputy Director or any equivalent post, names of eligible persons to be taken into consideration for promotion
to such posts in accordance with Rule 6, shall be 3 times the number of vacancies, in the list of such persons arranged
Page 3/20
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Orissa Statistics and Economics Service Rules, 1979
in order of seniority. The seniority list of officers alongwith the select list of Departmental Promotion Committee shall be
forwarded to the Commission alongwith service records and C. C. Rolls for recommendation by the Commission of
names of officers for filling up the vacancy or vacancies as the case may be.
(2)
The Commission shall consider the list alongwith documents received from the Government and recommend to
Government a list of candidates as they consider suitable for appointment to the post or posts, the list being arranged in
order of merit as would be determined by the Commission.
(3)
The selection of officers for promotion shall be based on merit and suitability in all respects with due regard to seniority.]
[Substituted vide Orissa Gazette Extraordinary No. 1614/1989.]
Provided that the Commission shall be competent to interview such candidates in respect of whom they may have any
doubt :
Provided further that the Commission shall be competent to assign to a person who in their opinion is of exceptional
merit, a higher place in the list than of officers senior to him.
(4)
The final list for selection of officers to be appointed shall be made by the Government after considering the
recommendations made by the Commission.
(5)
The list prepared by the Government in pursuance of Sub-rule (4) shall remain in force ordinarily for one year from the
date of its preparation by Government:
Provided that the Commission shall be consulted by Government to extend the validity of the list beyond one year if they
consider so necessary for the exigencies of public service :
Provided that the Government may at any time in consultation with the Commission for a grave lapse in the conduct or
deterioration in the standard of performance of the duties of any person included in the list remove the name of such
person from the list.
(6)
[ * * *]
[Deleted vide Orissa Gazette Extraordinary No. 1614/1989.]
8.
[
[Deleted vide Orissa Gazette Extraordinary No. 1614/1989.]
* * *]
9.
Conditions of eligibility.
(1)
In order to be eligible to compete at the examination, a candidate must satisfy the following conditions, namely:
(a)
he must be a citizen of India or a displaced person from the former East Pakistan who has migrated to India on or after
the first January, 1964 or a repatriate from Burma/Ceylone who has migrated to India on or after the 1st June, 1963/1st
November, 1964, or a subject of Nepal, Bhutan or Sikkim;
Note. - The eligibility of persons other than citizens of India shall cease on such date as Government may by order
appoint in that behalf.
(b)
he should be able t.o speak, read and write Oriya and have-
(i)
passed the M.E. School Examination conducted by the Board of Secondary Education or equivalent examination or any
higher examination conducted by the competent authority with Oriya as a language subject or
(ii)
had Oriya as medium or examination in non-language subject at the Matriculation or equivalent examination which they
have passed (to be specified by the Headmaster of the concerned High School recognised by the Board of Secondary
Education); or
Page 4/20
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Orissa Statistics and Economics Service Rules, 1979
(iii)
passed in Oriya as a language, subject in the final examination of Class VII or above (to be certified by the Headmaster
or Principal of the concerned Secondary School recognised by the Board of Secondary Education or by any other
competent authority);
(iv)
passed the test in Oriya of M. E. Standard conducted by any District Inspector of Schools in the State of Orissa;
(c)
he is under forty years and over twenty one years of age on the first day of August of the year in which applications are
invited:
Provided that the maximum age-limit may be relaxed in respect of the candidate belonging to the Scheduled Castes and
Scheduled Tribes and to such other categories to such extent as Government may by general or special order specify
from time to time;
(d)
he must have-
(i)
at least a second class Master's Degree in statistics or any of the following subjects with statistics as a special paper
from any University or Institution recognized by Government : Economics, Applied Economics, Mathematics; and
(ii)
such other general or special qualification, training or experience in any subject having a bearing on the processing and
analysis of statistical data and economic intelligence as Government may specify.
Note. - The candidates who possess Master's Degree in the subjects other than statistics and subjects mentioned in
Clause (d) (i) above are required to prove that they had Statistics as one of the papers in their Master's Degree.
(e)
he must be of good character and shall submit to Commission along with his application certificates of good character
from-
(i)
the Principal or a professor of the institution in which he last studied; and
(ii)
two respectable persons (not being relations) who are well acquainted with him in private life and are unconnected with
his College or University career;
Note. - The candidates shall furnish with their applications copies of certificates of their academic qualifications
beginning with and including the high school certificates or equivalent examination and of good character and mark
sheet of their Master's Degree examination, The copies must be attested by a Gazetted officer. The candidates shall
have to produce the original of the certificates at the time of viva-voce test failing which they shall be disqualified. The
candidates shall also furnish with their application such other papers or documents as the Commission may require;
(f)
a candidate must be of sound health, good physique and active habits and free from organic defects, physical as well as
mental infirmity and shall be required to appear before the State Medical Board before appointment.
(2)
A person already in service of Government shall be eligible to compete in the examination subject to that he is being
within the prescribed age-limits and being otherwise eligible and subject further that his application should reach the
Commission being received through proper channel within such time as may be determined by the Commission :
Provided that the Commission may entertain advance copies of applications on the condition that original copies are
forwarded or "no objection" certificates are received from the competent authority within such time as may be fixed by
the Commission.
10.
Disqualifications.
(1)
A candidate shall be disqualified by the Commission for admission to the examination, if-
(a)
there is an attempt on his behalf to obtain support for his candidature, or
Page 5/20
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Orissa Statistics and Economics Service Rules, 1979
(b)
he has not; paid, except where Government by order have reduced or waived it, a non-refundable application fee of
Rupees five (Rupee one and paise twenty-five only if the candidate belongs to any of the Scheduled Castes or Tribes),
or
(c)
he has not paid, except where Government by order have reduced or waived it, a non-refundable examination fee of
Rupees fifty (Rupees twelve and paise fifty only if the candidate belongs to any of the Scheduled Castes or Tribes) on
receipt of intimation from the Commission about his eligibility to appear at the examination.
Note. - The fee referred to in Clauses (b) and (c) above shall be deposited in a Government Treasury or Sub-Treasury
under such Head of Account as may indicated in the advertisement inviting applications for the examination or in the
intimation referred to in Clause (c) above, as the case may be. The Treasury challan in respect of the application fee
shall be enclosed to the application of the candidate and that in respect of the examination fee shall be furnished to the
Secretary, to the Commission by such date as the Commission may determine.
(2)
The decision of the Commission as the eligibility or otherwise of a candidate for admission to the examination shall be
final and no candidate to whom a certificate of admission has not been issued by the Commission shall be admitted to
the examination.
(3)
No person who-
(a)
has more than one wife living, or
(b)
being a woman candidate, has already married a person who has one or more than one wife living at the time of such
marriage.
shall be eligible for appointment to the service :
Provided that the Government may, if satisfied that there are special reasons for doing so, exempt any person from the
operation of this sub-rule such exemption is permissible under law.
11.
Admissible to the examination.
(1)
A candidate found eligible by the Commission to appear at the written examination shall receive from the Secretary to
the Commission a certificate of admission for the said examination along with an intimation as to the date and place of
the examination and the time-table thereof.
(2)
The certificate of admission shall be produced by the candidate before securing admission in the examination hall.
12.
Forwarding of the list by the Commission.
(1)
The Commission shall forward to Government a list arranged in order of merit of those candidates who have qualified by
such minimum standard of suitability as the Commission may fix including the candidates belonging to the Scheduled
Castes and the Scheduled Tribes who satisfy the said minimum standard.
(2)
If two of more candidates obtain equal marks the order of merit shall be determined in the written examination; should
the marks secured by them in the written examination be equal, the order of merit shall be determined in accordance
with the highest marks secured in any Master's Degree Examination.
(3)
The list referred to in Sub-rule (1) shall be published for general information in the manner the Commission consider
appropriate.
13.
Filling up vacancies.
(1)
Page 6/20
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Orissa Statistics and Economics Service Rules, 1979
Subject to the provisions of Sub-rules (2) to (4) candidates will, in the order in which their names appear in the list
referred to in Rule 12 (1), be considered for appointment to the service.
(2)
[ (a) For direct recruitment and promotion in respect of candidates belonging to the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled
Tribe, the procedure prescribed in Orissa Reservation of vacancies in Posts and Services (for Scheduled Castes and
Scheduled Tribes) Act, 1975 and the rules made thereunder shall be followed;
(b)
for direct recruitment to the service, Class-II for ex-servicemen, sportsmen and physically handicapped persons,
procedure as may be prescribed by the Government from time to time shall be followed.]
(3)
In filling up the vacancies so reserved, candidates who are members of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes
shall be considered for appointment in the order in which the names appear in the list referred to in Rule 12 irrespective
of their relative ranks as compared with other candidates.
(4)
If a sufficient number of candidates who are members of the Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes is not available for
filling up all the vacancies so reserved, the remaining vacancies shall be filled up by other candidates in the said list and
equivalent number of Additional vacancies shall be reserved for candidates belonging to the Scheduled Castes and the
Scheduled Tribes to be filled up on the results of the next examination;
Provided that if a sufficient number of suitable candidates belonging to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes is
not available as a result of the said next examination to fill all the reserved vacancies including the additional vacancies,
the additional vacancies or such of them as are not filled shall lapse.
14.
Penalty.
- A candidate who is or has been declared by the Commission guilty of impersonation or of submitting fabricated
document or documents which have been tampered with or of making statements which are incorrect or false or of using
or attempting to use unfair means in the examination or otherwise resorting to any other irregular or improper means for
obtaining admission to the examination or for attempting to obtain support in his favour by any means may in addition to
rendering himself liable to criminal prosecution, debarred either permanently or for a specified period-
(a)
by the Commission from admission to any examination or appearance at any interview held by the Commission for
selection of candidates; and
(b)
by the Government from employment under the Government.
15.
Inclusion in the list confer no right to appointment.
- The inclusion of a candidate's name in the list referred to in Rule 12 shall confer no right to appointment unless
Government are satisfied, after such enquiry, as may be considered necessary, that the candidate is suitable in all
respects for appointment to the service.
Chapter-IV Recruitment to Orissa Statistics and Economics Services, Class-II
16.
Methods of recruitment.
- Recruitment to the post in the cadre of the Orissa Statistics and Economics Services, Class II shall be made by
promotion in accordance with Rule 17 from amongst officers holding the post listed in the Second Schedule and such
other post as Government may from time to time specify in this behalf and by direct recruitment in accordance with Rule
8.
17.
[ Recruitment by promotion.
[Substituted vide Notification No. 17106/21.9.1982.]
(1)
The Government shall, as far as may be, fill up sixty-six and two third per cent of the vacancies in the Cadre arising after
the commencement of the Orissa Statistics and Economics Service (Amendment) Rules, 1982 by promotion in
Page 7/20
----- PAGE 8 -----
The Orissa Statistics and Economics Service Rules, 1979
accordance with Sub-rules (2) to (4) and shall be competent to determine the number of vacancies to be filled up in a
year by promotion and by direct recruitment.
(2)
No person who has not completed at least 5 years of service in the Bureau as listed in the Second Schedule on the first
day of August of the year in which the vacancy arises shall be eligible for consideration for promotion.
(3)
For vacancies to be filled up by promotion names of eligible persons to be forwarded to the Public Service Commission
shall be three times the number of vacancies. The names shall be arranged in the order of their seniority inter-se and
forwarded to the Commission along with their service records for the Commission's recommendation of a name or
names for filling up the vacancy or vacancies.]
[Substituted vide Orissa Gazette Extraordinary No. 1614/1989.]
18.
Direct recruitment to the Class II Service.
- [(1) Appointment by direct recruitment shall be made for the balance thirty-three and one-third percent of the vacancies
in the Cadre arising after the commencement of the Orissa Statistics and Economic Service (Amendment) Rules, 1982
during a year through a competitive examination held by the Commission in consolation with the Government :
Provided that the Commission may depending on the number of vacancies, decide to select candidate only through a
viva voce test in consultation with Government.]
[Substituted vide Notification No. 17106/21.9.1982.]
(2)
Such competitive examination shall be held at such intervals as the Commission may in consultation with the
Government from time to time and having regard to the likely number of vacancies in any year determine.
(3)
The said examination shall be conducted in the manner indicated in the Third Schedule.
(4)
The dates on and the place at which the examinations shall be held shall be fixed by the Commission.
(5)
The conditions of eligibility shall be the same as specified in Rule 9 except in so far as thereinafter mentioned, namely :
(a)
Clause (c) of Sub-rule (1) of Rule 9 shall not apply and the candidate must be under 28 years and over 21 years of age
on the first day of August of the year in which applications are invited; and
(b)
Sub-clause (ii) of Clause (d) of Sub-rule (1) of the said rule shall not apply.
(6)
The disqualification for admission to the examination shall be the same as specified in Rule 10.
(7)
The provisions of Rules 11 to 15 shall mutatis mutandis apply to the conduct of the examination, filling up or vacancies
and matters ancillary thereto.
Chapter-V Probation, confirmation and seniority
19.
Probation and probationers.
(1)
Persons recruited to the services shall be appointed to the service on probation.
(2)
Every Officer appointed by promotion shall be on probation for a period of one year and every officer appointed by direct
recruitment shall be on probation for a period of two years and in both cases the period of probation shall count from the
date he joins the post to which he is appointed :
Provided that Government may, it they so think fit extend the period of probation in any case or class of cases.
(3)
A probationer shall undergo such training as Government may from time to time determine.
(4)
Page 8/20
----- PAGE 9 -----
The Orissa Statistics and Economics Service Rules, 1979
If the Government are satisfied during the period of probation of an officer that his continuance in the service would not
be in public interest they may order the termination of the probation whereupon the period concerned shall, if recruited
through a competitive examination be deemed to have been reverted to the post from which he was promoted.
Explanation I. - The Government shall be the sole Judge of probationer's performance and its consistency with public
interest.
Explanation II. - In the absence of an order declaring the probation to have been satisfactorily completed, the probation
shall he deemed to have been extended till the date of the order or the date specified in the said order, as the case may
be.
20.
Confirmation.
- No officer appointed to the service shall be considered for confirmation unless he has completed the probation
satisfactorily, has passed the described departmental examination as set out in these rules and is considered by
Government to be fit for confirmation.
21.
Seniority.
(1)
The inter se seniority of officers appointed in any cadre of the service in any year shall be regulated in the following
manner, namely :
(a)
[ Officers appointed to the Service by promotion shall be ranked inter se in the order as would be finally decided by
Government under Rule 7 (4)]
[Substituted vide Orissa Gazette Extraordinary No. 1614/1989.]
;
(b)
Officer appointed to the service by direct recruitment shall be ranked inter se in the order in which their names are
arranged by the Commission; and
(c)
As between officers referred to in Clause (a) above on the one hand and those referred to in Clause (b) on the other, the
former shall in the year of recruitment be en block senior to the latter in that year.
(2)
The seniority of officer appointed to the service in pursuance of Rule 4 both as amongst themselves and vis-a-vis
officers under the administrative control of the Planning and Co-ordination Department at the commencement of these
rules shall be as may be determined by Government in consultation with the Commission.
Chapter-VI Departmental Examinations
22.
Object of the Examinational.
-  Government may hold a Departmental Examination for officers appointed to the service under Rules 17 and 18 and
the subjects of such examination, the syllabus therefore, the maximum marks for each subject, the minimum marks in
each subject is to be secured for the purpose of passing of the said examination shall be as set out hereinafter.
(2)
The failure to pass the Departmental Examination within a maximum of 4 chances available after the joining of officers in
service shall result in withholding their promotion and increment due after availing of the 4th chance :
Provided that if a departmental examination is held within six months of the joining of the officer-in-service and the
opportunity to sit in examination is not availed by him, it would not be counted as a chance :
Provided further that if the candidate passes the departmental examination in any subsequent chance he shall be
allowed the pay which he would ordinarily have drawn had he passed the said examination within the prescribed number
of chances but shall not be entitled to any amount on account of the increments withheld.
(3)
Notwithstanding anything in these rules, persons who have completed five years of service in any Branch of the service
on the date these rules come into force shall not be required to pass the departmental examination prescribed for that
Branch.
Page 9/20
----- PAGE 10 -----
The Orissa Statistics and Economics Service Rules, 1979
23.
Constitution of the Board.
- [(1) There shall be constituted a Board of Examiners (hereinafter referred to as the Board, consisting of-
(a)
The Secretary to Government, Planning and Co ordination Department;
(b)
Special Secretary or Additional Secretary in the Planning and Co-ordination Department to be nominated by
Government;
(c)
The Director, Directorate of Economics and Statistics;
(d)
Principal, Statistical Training Institute.
(2)
Government may also nominate two other persons having knowledge in Statistics and/or Economics as members of the
Board.
(3)
The Secretary to Government, Planning and Co-ordination Department shall act as the Chairman of the Board and shall
preside over its meeting.
(4)
The Principal, Statistical Training Institute under the Directorate of Economics and Statistics shall act as ex officio
Member-Secretary of the Board.]
[Substituted vide Orissa Gazette Extraordinary No. 1614/1989.]
24.
Conduct of Examination.
(1)
The examination shall be conducted by the Board and it shall be hold at such places as the Board may decide.
(2)
The examination shall be held twice every year at intervals of at least four months.
(3)
The date or dates of the examination shall be fixed by the President of the Board.
(4)
The Board shall notify in the Gazette the exact date, place and programme of the examination at least six weeks before
the date so fixed for the examination and the date by which applications for admission into the examination may be
received by the Board.
25.
Application by the probationer.
(1)
As soon as notification under Sub-rule (4) of Rule 24 is made, a probationer who is required to pass the examination
may submit an application in the form specified in Appendix I, as set out in these rules, addressed to the Secretary of
the Board so as to reach him not later than the date specified by him in the notification.
(2)
Any application received after the said date shall not be considered:
Provided that the Secretary may, for good and sufficient reasons to be recorded in writing, admit into the examinations a
probationer who failed to submit an application within the prescribed date.
(3)
The Secretary shall prepare a list of probationers who have been admitted into the examination and no one whose name
does not appear in the list shall be allowed to sit for the examination.
26.
Subjects of the Examination.
(1)
The examination which shall be in writing only, shall comprise of the following subjects, carrying maximum marks of 500
Page 10/20
----- PAGE 11 -----
The Orissa Statistics and Economics Service Rules, 1979
distributed in seven papers.
Paper
Subject
Maximum Marks
I
Applied Economics with application of Statistical Methodology
100
II
(a) Official Statistics
50
(b) Applied Statistics
50
III
Practicals
50
IV
Service Rules
50
V
Accounts
50
VI
Indian Constitution
50
VII
A dissertation on any Statistical or Economic problem
100
(2)
Papers I to III shall be of three hours duration whereas Papers IV to VI shall be of one hour duration. There is no such
time limit for dissertation.
(3)
A probationer shall answer the papers in English unless otherwise directed.
(4)
All the papers should be written legibly, in default of which a deduction to the extent of not more than five per cent as
decided by the Board of Examiners shall be made at the time of assessment of papers.
(5)
Credit will be given for orderly, effective and exact expression combined within due economy of words in all the subjects.
Credit will specially be given for neatness, method of approach to the problem and accuracy in calculations in practical
examination.
(6)
The syllabus for the subjects mentioned in Sub-rule (1) of Rule 26 above shall be as follows :
I. Applied economics with application of statistical methodology - Design for (a) descriptive study and (b) studies of
Casual hypothesis-practical problems arising in planning of a survey. Details of information to be collected-various
methods of collecting information-methods dealing with non-response. Pretest and pilot surveys.
Problems arising in the execution of a survey-Types of problems -Administrative organisation-listing and constructing a
schedule and a questionnair-selection, training and supervision of field organisation control of accuracy of field
work-Arrangement for follow-up in case of non-response.
Drafting of schedules. The essential information and the non-essential, statistical significance and economic significance
of data tabulated. Tabulation by economic categories and by geographical regions. The analysis of data.
Drafting of reports. National Income and State income estimation, Different sectors of National/State Income, Methods of
estimating National/State Income, inter-sectoral flows, problems of regional income estimates and Inter-Industry table.
Page 11/20
----- PAGE 12 -----
The Orissa Statistics and Economics Service Rules, 1979
Applications of input-output analysis.
Application of demand function. Statistical of analysis of demand with the help of time series and family budget data.
Agricultural prices -Reaction of supply and demand to chances in incomes and prices, the short and long period curves,
the demand curvey, the instability in agriculture, types of fluctuation, seasonal, annual and cyclical fluctuations.
II. This paper is divided into two parts, each part carrying a maximum mark of 50 :
(a)
Official Statistics. - Evaluation of the Statistical system in the Centre and States sources and nature of official statistics
on population, agriculture and animal husbandry, Industries, labour, commerce, trades, transport, price, education, local
bodies, housing, finance, planning and national and State income.
Censuses on human population, Cattle population, Agriculture, Industries.
Sample surveys of current Interest-National Sample Survey, Agricultural Surveys, Annual Survey of Industries, Sample
Census of Population, Debt and Investment Survey and such other surveys of importance at National and State levels.
(b)
Applied statistics. - Use of sampling methods in censuses and surveys-The requirements of a good sample, avoidance
of basis in selection methods of reducing the sampling error. Structure of various types of samples-Random sample,
stratification with uniform sampling fraction, multiple stratification, stratification with a variable sampling fraction,
systematic samples. Multistage sampling, balanced samples. Sub-sampling and repetitive surveys. Interpenetrating
sub-samples. Estimation of mean and population total in respect of these processes.
Use of random numbers, various methods of drawing probability, proportional to size samples.
Index numbers of prices and quantities. Different types of Index numbers, e.g., Index numbers of wholesale prices and
cost of living index numbers, Different types of tests.
The components of time series, trend fitting by moving averages and least square method, interpretation of economic
time series.
Life table, its construction and properties, derivation of annual and central rates of mortality. Rates and ratios of vital
statistics.
III. Practicals. - The candidates will be required to solve some statistical problems with the help of calculating machines.
IV. Service rules. - Questions shall be asked from the following books and they will aim at testing the knowledge on the
broad aspects of the rules-
1. The Orissa Service Code,
2. The Fundamental Rules and Supplementary Rules,
3. The Government Servants' Conduct Rules,
4. The Practice and Procedure Manual,
5. The Civil Service Regulation,
6. The Classification, Control and Appeal Rules.
V. Accounts. - The question shall be asked from the following books. The questions shall involve sample calculations to
test the knowledge of a probationer in the basic financial rules and his capacity to refer to these rules:
1. The Orissa Travelling Allowance Rules;
2. The Orissa Treasury Code;
3. The Orissa General Financial Rules;
4. The Orissa Budget Manual;
5. An Introduction to India Government Accounts and Audit (Chapters 1 to 4, 6 and 7).
VI. Indian Constitution. - Questions will be act on the broad aspects of the Constitution with special reference to the
following Articles, with a probationer shall be able to answer without detailed study.
Articles 37 to 51, Articles 107-117, Articles 194-207, Articles 266-283 and the Seventh Schedule of the Indian
Constitution.
VII. A dissertation on any statistical or economic problem. - (a) A probationer shall be required to submit a dissertation
not exceeding 50 pages on any statistical or economic problem.
(b)
The title and a brief synopsis of the dissertation should be submitted to the Secretary of the Board of Examiners for
approval within 6 months of joining for direct recruits and within six months of coming into force of these rules for
candidates already in service but are required to pass the Departmental Examination as provided under Rule 24 of the
Page 12/20
----- PAGE 13 -----
The Orissa Statistics and Economics Service Rules, 1979
Orissa Statistics and Economics Service Rules, 1979.
(c)
The approval of the Board of the subject of dissertation shall be communicated to the probationer within one month of
the date of submission of the title and synopsis.
(d)
The dissertation should be submitted to the Secretary of the Board of Examiners at least fifteen days before the date of
examination.
(e)
The dissertation will be required to be typed and submitted in duplicate.
27.
Appointment of officers to set question papers.
(1)
The Board of Examiners shall appoint suitable officers of the State or the Central Government of the Universities and
Research Organisations to set question papers and to examine the answer-books thereof.
(2)
No person who is appointed to set questions on any paper shall be appointed to set questions on any other paper.
(3)
Every question paper-setter shall send the question paper to the Secretary of the Board of Examiners by name in double
cover properly sealed so as to reach him on or before date fixed by the Secretary of the Board.
28.
Arrangements to conduct the examination.
- The President of the Board shall be responsible for making all arrangements of conducting the examination and shall
be competent to issue instructions for guidance of paper-setters, invigilators and examiners.
29.
Penalties.
(1)
If an examinee is found to be using or have used unfair means in the examinations the following penalties, may, without
prejudice to any other action that may, be taken against him by the Government, be imposed on him, namely :
(a)
Cancellation of result of examination in any paper or papers,
(b)
Debarring from appearing at the examination papers in same chance,
(c)
Debarring from appearing at the examination in subsequent chance not exceeding two successive chances other than
that specified in Clause (b) of Sub-rule (1).
(2)
The Secretary of the Board of Examiners by himself on behalf of the President of the Board shall be competent to inflict
penalties specified above.
(3)
Orders passed by Secretary, President or Board shall be final.
30.
Submission of answer books.
(1)
Each examiner shall submit the answer-books with mark sheets properly authenticated in double cover properly sealed
to the Secretary of the Board within a period of one month from the date on which the answer-books are received by
him.
(2)
The Secretary shall get the marks tabulated by an officer specially appointed by the President for this purpose.
31.
Passing the Examination by probationer.
- [(1) A probationer shall be deemed to have passed the examination in any subject if he secures at least 60 per cent of
Page 13/20
----- PAGE 14 -----
The Orissa Statistics and Economics Service Rules, 1979
the marks in the said subject.
(2)
A probationer may pass the examination in parts :
Provided that he shall not be deemed to have passed the examination unless he has passed in all the subjects
prescribed for the departmental examination.]
[Substituted vide Orissa Gazette Extraordinary No. 1614/1989.]
32.
Tabulation of marks and its publication of results by Secretary.
(1)
The Secretary of the Board shall place the tabulated marks before the Board for consideration.
(2)
With the approval of the Board, the Secretary of the Board shall publish the results ordinarily within two months from the
last date of the examination in the Gazette.
33.
Passing the Examination.
(1)
A probationer who has passed the examination shall be deemed to have passed it on the last day on which the
examination was held or if he has passed the examination by instalments, on the last day of the examination in which he
finally passed.
(2)
The name of probationers who have passed the examination shall be published by the Secretary of the Board in the
Gazette.
34.
Meeting of the Board.
- The Secretary of the Board with the approval of the President shall convene meetings of the Board from time to time
for transacting any business under these rules.
35.
Preservation of answer books, marks sheets and tabulation registers.
- All answer papers, mark-sheets and tabulation registers shall be preserved for a period of three calendar years
immediately following the year of the examination.
Chapter-VII Miscellaneous
36.
Relaxation.
- If the State Government are of opinion that it is necessary or expedient to do so they may, by order, for reasons to be
recorded in writing, and in consultation with the Commission, relax any of the provisions of these rules in respect of any
Branch or category of persons or posts
37.
Interpretation.
- If any question arises relating to the interpretation of these rules, it shall be referred to the Government for decision.
38.
Repeal and savings.
- All rules, orders and instructions hitherto in force pertaining to the subject-matter of any of the provisions of these rules
to the extent of their repugnancy are hereby repealed :
Provided that save as otherwise specified in these rules, any order made or action taken under the rules, orders and
instructions so repealed shall be deemed to have been made under these rules and shall continue to have force and
effect.
The First Schedule
[See Rule 8 (2)]
1. The competitive examination for filling up, by direct recruitment posts of Deputy Director and an equivalent posts in
the Orissa Statistics and Economics Service, Class I shall comprise of a written examination and a viva-voce test. The
written examination is comprised of 3 papers The subjects of examination and the maximum marks for each are
Page 14/20
----- PAGE 15 -----
The Orissa Statistics and Economics Service Rules, 1979
indicated below :
Subject
Maximum marks
(i)
An essay in English on a subject requiring knowledge of
current economic issues
50
(ii)
Any one of the following subjects(two papers in each
subject)-Statistics or, Economics or, Mathematics
300
2. The maximum marks in the written examination are thus 350. The viva-voce shall carry 150 Marks. The papers shall
be of Post Graduate standard except the Essay paper which shall be of Degree standard.
3. A candidate shall answer the papers in English unless otherwise directed. The papers shall be of 3 hours duration,
except the Essay paper which shall be of 1½ hour duration. There is no time-limit for the viva-voce test.
4. The provisions of Clauses 6 to 10 of Third Schedule shall mutatis mutandis apply to the examination. In addition, the
viva-voce test will be directed at a thorough assessment of the special qualification, training or experience as specified
in the advertisement.
5. The questions on Mathematics/Statistics/Economics shall relate to the subjects outlined under Clause 11 of the Third
Schedule.
The Second Schedule
[See Rule 16]
1. Statistical Investigator.
2. [ Field Controllor and Senior Economic Investigator of the erstwhile Evaluation Cell of the Planning and Co-ordination
Department which existed prior to the 29th January, 1979, the date on which the Planning and Co-ordination was
re-organised.]
[Substituted vide No. 17106/21.9.1982.]
3. Assistant District statistical officer
4. Field Supervisor
5. Supervisor
6. Assessment Inspector
7. Commercial Intelligence Investigator
8. Economic Investigator
9. Research Assistant
10. Machine Room Supervisor
The Third Schedule
[See Rule 18 (3)]
1. The competitive examination for filling up, by direct recruitment, posts of Assistant Director, District Statistical Officer
and equivalent posts in Orissa Statistics and Economics Service, Class II shall comprise of a written examination and a
viva-voce test. The examination shall comprise of 5 compulsory papers and 2 optional papers. The subjects of
Examination and the maximum marks for each are indicated below :
Subject
Maximum Marks
I.
Compulsory subjects (one paper in each subject)-
(i) General English which shall include an easy carrying 50
marks
100
(ii) General Knowledge
100
(iii) Mathematics
Page 15/20
----- PAGE 16 -----
The Orissa Statistics and Economics Service Rules, 1979
100
(iv) Statistics
100
(v) Economics
100
II.
Optional Subjects (two papers in each subject)-
(i) Mathematics, or
(ii) Statistics, or
300
(iii) Economics
2. The maximum marks for the written examination are, thus, 800. The viva-voce test shall carry 200 marks.
3. The compulsory papers shall be of degree standard except Mathematics which shall be of Intermediate Standard. The
Optional papers will be of Post-Graduate standard.
4. A candidate shall answer the papers in English unless otherwise directed.
5. All papers shall be of 3 hours duration. There is no time-limit for the viva-voce test.
6. The Commission shall summon for the viva-voce test all candidates who have appeared at the written test and have
secured the minimum qualifying marks to be prescribed by the Commission, at their discretion, in any, or all of the
subjects.
7. If a candidate's handwriting is not easily legible, deduction which may be to the extent of ten per cent of the marks
otherwise accruing to him may be made.
8. From the marks assigned to a candidate in each subject such deduction may be made as the Commission may
consider necessary in order to ensure that no credit is allowed for merely superficial knowledge.
9. Credit shall be given for orderly, effective and exact expressions combined with economy of words and
persuasiveness of argument.
10. The candidate will be interviewed by the Commission who will have before them a record of his career. The
Commission may, it they consider it necessary, secure the assistance of experts and the selection of experts will be at
their discretion. The candidate may be asked questions on any subject studied by him for the Bachelors or Masters
Degree examination as well as on matters of general interest. The object of the interview is to assess his suitability for
the service with particular reference to his intelligence and alertness of mind and the range of his outlook.
11. The question in the compulsory papers (except General English and General Knowledge) may relate to the following
subjects :
(i)
Mathematics. - The questions will be of Intermediate standard. The paper will cover the following topics :
Variation, surds and imaginary quantities, arithmetic, geometric and harmonic progressions, theory of quadratic
progressions theory of quadratic equations, permutations and combination binomial theorem for any index, exponental
and logerithemic functions, determinants.
Trigonometrical indentities, trigonometric equations, relation between sides and angles of a triangle, solutions of
triangles, inverse trigonometrical functions.
Functions, limits and continuity of functions, differentiation, successive differentiation, standard methods of integration,
integration of transdental and trigonometric functions, definite integrals. The straight lines, equations of the straight line
in different forms, intersection of two straight lines, perpendicular distance of a point from a straight line, homogeneous
equations of the second degree. The equation of a circle, tangents and normals to a circle, pair of tangents from a point
to a circle, parametric equation of a circle, equations of the parabola, ellipse, hyperbola and rectangular hyperbola
equation of their tangents and normals, parametric equations.
(ii)
Statistics. - The questions will be of B.A. (Pass) standard. The paper will cover the following topics :
Newtons and Lagranges formula for interpolation, inverse interpolation. Random variable, theorems of total and
compound probability, expectation, elementary ideas about probability in continue.
Frequency distribution, measures of central tendency and dispersion, skewness, kurtosia, moment-generating functions,
characteristic functions, curve fitting by method of moments and least squares, Binomial Poissen and Normal
Page 16/20
----- PAGE 17 -----
The Orissa Statistics and Economics Service Rules, 1979
distributions, correlation and regression, Beta, Gamma, x2, t, F, z, distributions their properties and uses, tests of
significance based on these distributions, analysis of variance Components of time series, trend fitting by moving
averages, and least square method, concept, of Indian Numbers, quantity and price indices, definition of rates and ratios
in vital statistics, simple random sampling, sampling and non-sampling errors, elementary ideas on complete
randomisation and randomised block designs.
(iii)
Economics. - The questions will be of B.A. (Pass) standard. The paper will cover the following topics :
Definition and scope of Economics, nature of economic laws, consumption, production, value and distribution, value of
money, quantity theory and its limitations, inflation and deflation, their causes and effects, how banks create credit,
investment policy of a bank, functions of Central banks, different methods of credit control, principles of
taxation-incidence of taxes, principles of public expenditure, kinds of public debts and methods of debt repayment.
Problems of population in India and population policy, Indian agriculture, cause of its low productivity, Land reform
measures in the Five-Year Plans, Indian's food problem, industrial policy of India since 1948, Reserve Bank of India and
its functions. Co-operative movement in India and co-operative farming, Planning in India-objectives and achievement of
the Five-year Plans.
12. The candidates will have to choose one optional subject out of the 3 indicated in the table under Clause 1 above.
Each subject shall comprise two papers and each paper shall carry 150 marks. The optional papers shall contain
questions on items specified below;
(i)
Mathematics Paper. - (i) Differential equations. - Ordinary differential equations with more than two variables, partial
differential Equations, Partial differential Equations of the second and higher orders.
Vector: Vector field in general, gradient divergence and curl, line surface and space integrals and related theorems.
Tensor: Vector, Bases, and orthogonal transformations, the definition of a tensor, the Algebra of tensors.
Real analysis. - Dedekind's Axiom, Sequence and limits, Continuity and Discontinuity, properties of continuous
functions, Heine Boral Theorem, mean value theorem, Reminders in Taylor's Service, Reimann Integration, Necessary
and sufficient conditions of intergrability, properties of definite integrals, Differentiation and integration of the definite
integrals, General principles of convergence, Absolute convergence, Uniform convergence, power meries, Abel's
Continuity theorem and its converse, Convergence of improper integrals, Differentiation and integration of Infinite
Integrals, Sets of Points, Measurable functions, the Lebesgne integral of a bounded function, Bounded covergence,
Comparison between Reimann and lobangue integrals the Lebeague Integral of an unbounded function, General
convergence theorem.
Advanced Calculus. - Partial differentiation, Application of partial differentiation, Stielties integral, Multiple integrals, Line
and surface Integrals, The Gamma function. Evaluation of definite integrals, Fourier series, Dirichiet's integral,
Convergence of Fouries.
Solid Geometry. - Area of plane sections of conicoids circuloid, sections, Umbilies, generating lines, Central point and
parametric distribution.
(ii)
Mathematics Paper II-Elementary complex Analysis. - Complex humbers, Their geometric representation, Definition of a
function of a complex variable, Bilinear and other simple transformations, Differentiation of functions of a complex
variable, Cauchy Riemann differential equations, Power series as analytic function, seroes and poles of functions,
Cauchy's theorem for simple contour, and functions which are analytic inside and on the contour Morera's theorem.
Cauchy's fundamental theorem, Liouville's theorem, Taylore series and Laurent's series, Fundamental theorem of
Algebra, Theory of residues, Application to definite Integrals.
Topolugy. - Sets, Closed and upon sets in Metric spaces, Homeouorphism and continuous mapping.
Modern Algebra. - Numbers and sets, Groups, Rings and Fields.
Differential Geometry. - Curves in space, Envelopes, Curvatures of surfaces, Asympto lines.
Statistics and attraction potential. - Forces in three dimension, Principles of virtual work in three dimensions, work
function of a body, positions of equilibrium of a system stable and unstable equilibrium of a system, stable and unstable
equilibrium, Poinsot's central axis, Null points, Null prances, Attraction and potential. The law of gravitation potential and
its physical interpretation, Equipotential surfaces and lines of forces ; Attraction of a road, a circular disc, and attraction
and potential at internal and external points of sphere, a spherical shell, and a long cylinder, mutual work of two
Page 17/20
----- PAGE 18 -----
The Orissa Statistics and Economics Service Rules, 1979
attracting systems, loss of potential energy of a gravitating system, Theorems 1a place, poisson and causs, tube of
force, Theorems on potential, calculation of distribution of matter when potential is given, potential of a body at a distant
point.
Dynamics. - Rigid dynamics, Morents and products of inertia, Momental ellipsoid, Momental ellipse, equimomental
systems, principal axes, 'D' Alemberts' Principle, General Equations of motion, Independence of translation and rotation,
Impulsive forces, General equations of motion of a body in three dimensions, principle of conservation of energy,
Generalised Co-ordinates, Lagrange's equations. Lagrange's equations for blows, small ocillations.
(iii)
Statistics Paper I-Probability. - Definition of probability. Random variables, Marginal joint and conditional probability
distribution. Discrete and continuous distributions. Characteristic functions ; Levey inversion theorem. First limit theorem.
Convergence in probability. Berncuill's theorem Techebycheff's inequality. Weak La. of large numbers, Repeatable,
experiments, Sample space. Frequency interpretation of probability, Central limit theorem, Khintehime's La of large
numbers. General idea of the second limit theorem, Probability in continum.
Numerical analysis and Difference equations. - Operators D.E. and relations between them, Interpolation. Equal and
unequal intervals. Formulas of Newton, Lagrange, Gause, Stirling and Bessel with remainder terms. Sub-tabulation.
Inverse Interpolation. Double Interpolation. Numerical differentiation and numerical integration. Accuracy of the
quadrature formulas, Nulers' formula of summation and quadrature. Lubbocks add Wool hourses formulas. Mechanical
caubature. Solution of numerical algebraic equations. Grceffe's root-squaring method (Real unequal roots). Newton
Raphson and Iteration methods, Solution of simultaneous linear equations. Zero differences. Compoud functions.
Descriptive Statistics. - Collection and classification of data, Diagrammatic representation continuous and discrete
values. Theory of attributes and their Association. Partial association. Manifold classification, Frequency , distributions,
Measures of location and dispersion, moments, cumulate, Measures of skewness and kurtosis.
Standard Distributions. - Binomial, Poission, Normal, Negative, Binomial, Rectangular Distributions, Cauchy's Beta and
Gamma distributions and their properties, correlation and Regression, simple, partial, multiple Curve fitting including
orthogonal Polynomials, Pearson distributions.
Large sample Theory. - Standard errors, and large sample tests, X2-tests of independence and tests of goodness of fit.
Sampling Distributions-Concept of sampling distribution of moan ; variance, correlation co-efficient, Regression
coefficient from normal distribution, Distributions of T.F., and X2 Fisher's Z-transformation, tests based upon the above
distributions and tests of homogeneity of variances and correlations, Distribution of order Statistics.
Multivariance analysis. -Multivariate distributions including Wisharat's and Hotelling's distributions and related tests,
Discriminant analysis and connonical correlations.
Estimation. - Point estimation, properties of estimators, consistency sufficiency, efficiency, methods of
estimation-properties of maximum likelihood estimators, interval estimation, confidence intervals and fiducial inference.
Tests of hypothesis. - Simple and composite hypothesis, Neyman Pearson theory, choice of critical regions based on
power properties, similar regions and their constructions using sufficient statistics for the case of one nuisance
parameter Elements of the several parameter case, likelihood Ratio test, Sequential test, procedures-Wald's Sequential
probability ratio test. OC and ASN functions, Sequential tests relating to the mean, standard deviation of a normal
distribution and for binomial proportion.
(iv)
Statistics Paper (II). - Design of Experiments-Kubear estimation and Markoff's theorem, analysis of variance and
covariance.
Principles of experimental designs. - Randomisation, replication and local control completely Randomised design,
Randamised block design, Latin squares, Gracco Latin square missing plot technique, cross over design.
Factorial experiments, analysis of 2" and 3" designs, confounding in factorial systems, Split plot designs. Balanced
incomplete block designs, partially balanced incomplete block designs and simple latric design.
Sample surveys. - Place of sampling in census and survey work, Concept of frame and sampling unit.
Sampling techniques. - Random sampling, stratified sampling choice of strata, multistage sampling, cluster sampling,
systematic sampling, double sampling variable sampling, fraction sampling with probability proportional to size,
multiphase sampling, inverse sampling.
Estimation procedures. - Estimates of population total and mean ; bias in estimates; standard error of estimates Ratio
regression and product estimates.
Page 18/20
----- PAGE 19 -----
The Orissa Statistics and Economics Service Rules, 1979
Optimum designs. - Cost and variance functions. Use of pilot surveys, optimum size and structure of sampling units.
Optimum allocation in stratified, multiphase and multisage designs Optimum replacement fraction in repetitive surveys.
Non-sampling errors and their control, theory of non-response, interpenetrating samples.
Design and Organisation at pilot and large scale sample surveys, operational procedures for drawing Samples, use of
random sampling numbers; various methods of drawing p.p.s. samples. Procedures for collection and tabulation of data.
Analysis of survey data and preparation of report. Index numbers and their uses, theory of index numbers, reversal
tests, index numbers of prices and quantities, wholesale price and cost of living indices, economic time series-its
analysis and interpretation, its components, method of trend determination, trend elimination and its effects, variate
difference methods, methods of determination of seasonality tests of randomness, correlogram and periodogram
analysis.
National and international statistical systems, United National Statistical agencies, functions of statistical offices in
Central Ministries and States, details of India statistics relating to population, vital statistics, Agriculture, Animal
Husbandry, Forestry, Fishery, Mining, Industry, Transport, Communication. Education, Health, Labour and Employment,
Prices, Public Finance, Money and Banking, National income and Planning.
The life table, its construction and properties, Make hem's and Gomperts curves, derivation of annual and central rates
of mortality national life tables, U.N. model life tables. Abridged life tables, stable population, stationary population, crude
fertility rates, specific fertility rates, gross and net reproduction rates, crude mortality rates, infant mortality rates,
mortality by cause of death, standardised rates, Population Projections-mathematical and component methods, logistics
curve fitting.
Theoretical basis of quality control in industry, tolerance limits, different kinds of control charts, group control charts,
acceptance sampling, single, double and sequential sampling plans, use of Dodge Roming and other tabler.
(v)
Economics Paper (I). - Scope and methodology ; Equilibrium analysis.
Theory of consumer's demand. Indifference curve analysis, Revealed preference approachal. Consumer's surplus.
Theory of production, factors of production, Production Functions, Laws of returns. Equilibrium of the firm and the
industry.
Pricing under various forms of market Organisation, pricing in a socialist economy Pricing in a mixed economy.
Theory of distribution, pricing of factors of production, theories of rent, wages, interest and profit, Macrodistribution
theory, share of wages in national income, profits and economic progress, inequalities in income distribution.
Theory of employment and output-the classical and neoclassical approaches, Keynesian theory of employment.
Post-Keynesian developments.
Economic fluctuations. Theories of business cycle, Piscal and momentary policies for control of Business cycles.
Welfare economics : scope of welfare economics; classical and neoclassical approaches; New welfare economics and
the compensation principles; optimum conditions; policy implication.
Concept of economic growth and its measurement. Theories of growth, Growth model.
(vi)
Economics Paper (II). - Indian Economic Problems.
Problems of growth of population in India and population policy Indian Agriculture : Causes of its low productivity ; Land
reform measures in the Five-Year Plan.
Organisation and defects of the Co-operative Movement in India Cooperative Farming.
India's Food Problem.
Reorganisation of Agricultural Credit.
Small-Scale and Cottage Industries Need for their development and their problems.
Trade Union Movement in India.
Composition and direction of India's Foreign Trade-Balance of payment-Export policy.
Reserve Bank of India-Its functions.
Planning in India-Objectives, achievements of the Five-Year Plans in India.
Rural reconstruction.
Special programmes for development of Backward areas.
Gross Domestic Products and State Income estimation Economic Indicators.
Appendix-I
Page 19/20
----- PAGE 20 -----
The Orissa Statistics and Economics Service Rules, 1979
[See Sub-rule (1) of Rule 25]
Form of application for admission into the Departmental Examination
From
Shri/Smt.......................................
(Name in full in block letters)
Designation.............................
Postal Address..........................
To
The Secretary,
Board of Examiners,
Bureau of Statistics and Economics,
Orissa Bhubaneswar.
Date :
Sir;
With reference to Board of Examiners Notification No ............. dated............ I request that I may be allowed to appear at
the departmental examination to be held in ................ (here specify month and year) in the following papers, namely :
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
*2. I have already passed in the papers, the details of which are specified below :
No. of the paper
Subject
Standard by which the candidate has passed the
examination
Notification No.
1
2
3
4
Yours faithfully
Signature in full
Designation and Official Address
* Delete if not necessary.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 20/20