
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Orissa State Lottery Rules, 1983
The Orissa State Lottery Rules, 1983
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/191269335/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Odisha - Act
The Orissa State Lottery Rules, 1983
ODISHA
India
The Orissa State Lottery Rules, 1983
Rule THE-ORISSA-STATE-LOTTERY-RULES-1983 of 1983
Published on 1 September 1983
Commenced on 1 September 1983
[This is the version of this document from 1 September 1983.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Orissa State Lottery Rules, 1983
Published vide Notification No. 32152-Inv.-39/83-F./1.9.1983
Notification No. 32152-Inv., 39/83-F., dated 1st September, 1983. - The following rules made by the Government of
Orissa for the conduct of the State Lottery Scheme by the Government under Sole Managing Agency System are
published for general information :
1.
Preliminary.
(1)
These rules may be called the Orissa State Lottery Rules, 1983.
(2)
They shall come into force with immediate effect.
Page 1/6
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Orissa State Lottery Rules, 1983
(3)
These rules supersede to Orissa State Lottery Rules, 1970.
2.
Scheme of the lottery.
- The Orissa State Lottery (hereinafter called the State Lottery) shall be run by the Government of Orissa in the Finance
Department (hereinafter called the Government) and shall be administered by [an officer not below the rank of a Deputy
Secretary to Government, Finance Department]
[Substituted vide Notification No. 40331-F./28.9.1984.]
as ex-officio Director of Orissa State Lottery (hereinafter called the Director) appointed by and subject to the control of
Government.
3.
The Scheme will be implemented under the general guidance of a Committee consisting of the following members :
(1)
Secretary, Industries Department
Member
(2)
Secretary, Irrigation and Power Department
Member
(3)
Secretary, Finance Department
Member
(4)
Additional Secretary, Finance Department
Convenor-Secretary of the Committee.
The Committee will be competent to make such changes in the Scheme and rules as may be found necessary from time
to time; provided that it shall obtain the approval of the Government for any major change involving financial
commitments.
4.
Printing and issue of lottery tickets.
(1)
The tickets for the State Lotteries shall be printed in a Government Press or at any Press of repute as may be approved
by Government. As a check against unauthorised printing and sale of tickets, the facsimile signature of Secretary to
Government, Finance Department, shall be impressed on the tickets.
(2)
Tickets for the State Lotteries shall be issued in the denomination of Rupee One and in such other denominations as the
Government may from time to time decide.
(3)
Tickets shall be issued in distinct and separate series and each such series shall be distinguished by a distinct
alphabetical notation such as A, B, C, AA, BB, CC and the like.
(4)
Each series shall consist of not more than 9,99,999 tickets and shall be numbered consecutively from 0,00,001.
(5)
The Government shall decide the number of series to be released for sale for each draw and the number of tickets in
each series.
5.
Number and amount of prizes and eligibility therefor.
(1)
The number and amount of prizes for each draw shall be determined and indicated on the reverse of each ticket issued
for sale.
(2)
All prizes are guaranteed by Government.
Page 2/6
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Orissa State Lottery Rules, 1983
(3)
[ A ticket can win only one prize and that is the highest prize drawn against it.]
[Substituted vide Notification No. 2093/13.1.1984.]
6.
Sale of tickets.
- The State Lottery tickets will be sold to the public through the Sole Managing Agent appointed by the Government.
Tickets issued to the Sole Managing Agent shall be treated as sold and stamped as 'prepaid'.
7.
Draw of the State Lotteries.
(1)
The date of the draw of the Lotteries shall be indicated on the tickets themselves.
(2)
The Government shall have the right to postpone the date of the draw. Due publicity of such postponement and also of
the revised date of draw shall however be given.
(3)
The draw shall be made by use of the 'Lottery Machines' specially designed for the purpose [or as prescribed in Sub-rule
(7) of this rule.]
[Inserted vide Notification No. 43273-F./18.11.1983.]
(4)
The time and place where the draw is to be held shall be given wide publicity. The draw shall be held in public and under
the supervision of a Committee of Judges specially nominated for the purpose. The Committee of Judges shall consist
of not less than three members [including a Chairman]
[Added vide Notification No. 43623/22.11.1983.]
out of which not less than two shall be state Officials nominated by the Director and one outsider nominated by the Sole
Managing Agent. In the event of the absence of the Chairman, the Committee of Judges present will select a Chairman
from among themselves.
(5)
At any time during the draw two Judges shall form the quorum.
(6)
A list duly authenticated by the Director, indicating the notations of the series released for sale and a list of numbers
issued in the series shall be made available to the panel of Judges.
(7)
(i)
There will be seven drums located in a conspicuous place by the side of the pandal where the Judges will be sitting. The
drums will bear the following identification labels :
I
II
III
IV
V
VI
VII
(Lakhs)
(Ten thousand)
(Thousands)
(Hundreds)
(Tens)
(Units)
(Notation)
The Judges of the Committee shall decide about the number of discs bearing digit numbers to be placed in Drum No. 1.
The next five Drums will contain ten discs bearing digits 0 to 9. The discs numbering 6 and 9 shall have further
Page 3/6
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Orissa State Lottery Rules, 1983
identification labels (Six) and (Nine). Each disc will be encased in a plastic pouch, so that the number of disc cannot be
seen. All the plastic pouches shall be identical. The Judges will satisfy themselves that all the discs encased in plastic
pouches are put in the Drums before the draw begins. The draw will commence with the ringing of a bell by one of the
Judges and all the Drums will be rotated for about one minute so that the plastic pouches containing the discs get well
shuffled. When the Judge rings the bell again, the drums will be halted. On the halting of the drums, one pouch from the
1st Drum will be picked up by a person called to pick up the pouches. The pouch shall be taken to the nearest Judge
sitting on the pandal who will open it and announce the digit in the disc and this will also be announced over the mike.
This number shall be simultaneously put in the Notice Board. This process shall be continued for all the six drums
serially in ascending order and the six digits taken from the Drums I, II, III, IV, V and VI will be arranged on the Notice
Board from left to right.
(ii)
In respect of prizes exceeding Rs. 1,000 for each series, the prize winning numbers shall be drawn in full for all the six
digits as in Sub-rule (i) above.
(iii)
[ In fact of prizes of Rs. 1,000 and below the prize winning numbers will not be drawn in full but a combination of last
digits (five, four, etc.) as may be necessary relating to the number of Prizes in each series looking to the number of
tickets in that series will be drawn separately. The method of drawing those prizes shall be indicated in the scheme
issued from time to time under Rule 12 of these rules.]
[Substituted vide Notification No.2093/13.1.1984.]
(iv)
The common prizes in respect of any draw for all the series, if there be any, will be drawn [either before or after the lucky
numbers of all series are drawn, as may be considered convenient]
[Substituted vide Notification No. 43273-F./18.11.1983.]
. The procedure for drawing the common prize will be as follows :
Two sets of discs showing the notations of all the series will be kept in Drum VII and the lucky series will be drawn
according to the procedure prescribed for drawing the lucky numbers. Thereafter the lucky number with the lucky series
will be drawn in the usual manner. The Ticket in the lucky series and with the lucky number will win the common prize.
(v)
The prize winning number shall be entered by each of the Judges of the panel present at the time of the draw in the
blank result Sheets supplied for the purpose, simultaneously as the series and numbers are announced over the mike
and indicated on the Notice Board. The result sheets thus entered by the Judges shall be handed over duly signed shall
form the basis for recording the results in the Register of Prize Winning Numbers.
(vi)
Wide publicity shall be given through national dailies of all India circulation to the list of prize winning numbers. The list
shall also be published in the Official Gazette and such publication shall constitute the official announcement of the
results for purposes of draw.
8.
Every prize amount shall be claimed by submitting a claim bill for the prize amount in Form O.S.L.-I together with the
prize winning ticket. Winners of prizes exceeding Rs. 1,000 shall claim the prize amounts from the Director of State
Lotteries only. Other prizes shall be arranged to be disbursed by the Sole Managing Agent.
9.
It is not necessary for the prize winner to present the claim in person, nor it is necessary to have any identification of the
prize winner. Payment will be made in the name of the person who signs the claim bill to which the prize winning ticket is
attached. The prize exceeding Rs. 1,000 shall be claimed through a Scheduled Bank having its office in Orissa. Prizes
of Rs. 1,000 and below shall be paid in cash or by money-order if so requested in writing after deducting the
money-order commission. A ticket which is torn or mutilated will not be considered as valid ticket for any prize.
10.
All winners of prizes shall claim the prize amounts within forty five days from the date of draw. No claim for a prize will
be entertained after expiry of the said period of forty-five days. Prize amounts not claimed within the aforesaid time-limit
as also the prize amounts in respect of claims rejected by the Director of State Lotteries shall lapse and amounts shall
automatically stand forefeited.
Page 4/6
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Orissa State Lottery Rules, 1983
11.
Notwithstanding anything stated in the foregoing rules it shall be lawful for Government to delegate, or permit delegation
of powers vested in it or any other authority under these rules to such officer for such purpose and subject to such
condition as it may specify by order in writing.
12.
[
[Substituted vide Notification No. 2093/13.10.1984.]
The Government reserves the right to alter or modify the terms and conditions governing the Orissa State Lottery
Scheme. The number of tickets in each series, series numbers, date of draw, details of prize structure, other terms and
conditions and the method of drawing prizes as may be prescribed in the scheme covering the number of draws
included in the Scheme shall be notified in the Official Gazette.]
13.
If any question arises as to the interpretation of these rules or any other matter not expressly provided for in these rules,
the matter shall be referred to the Government and the decision of the Government shall be final. In case of any dispute,
the decision of the Committee constituted in Rule 3 shall be final
14.
All correspondences from outside the State shall be made only in English.
15.
Circulation and sale of tickets are prohibited outside India and in places in India where lotteries are prohibited by law.
16.
Appointment of Agency.
- The Government may appoint a Sole Managing Agent to run on its behalf the State Lottery according to these rules
and subject to the overall control and supervision of the Government and Director. For the purpose of such Agency an
agreement specifying such terms and conditions as may be agreed to shall be executed between the Sole Managing
Agent and the Government.
17.
Accounting.
(1)
The receipts from the State Lottery Scheme shall be credited under the head "068-Miscellaneous General
Services-State Lotteries".
(2)
The expenditure on payment of prize money shall be debitable to "Demand No. 5-268-Miscellaneous General
Services-State Lotteries".
(3)
The expenditure on establishment for running the State Lotteries will be recorded under the head "Demand No.
5-265-Other Administrative Services-Other Expenditure".
(4)
The net proceeds of the State Lottery Scheme shall be utilised for any of the specific project/projects as may be decided
by Government from time to time.
18.
These rules shall constitute a binding contract between the Government and the Sole Managing Agent appointed
thereunder and the persons who purchase lottery tickets issued hereunder and such a contract shall in each case be
deemed to be made at Bhubaneswar, avid no legal proceedings pertaining to any matter connected with this Lottery
Scheme shall be instituted in any Court other than the appropriate Court within the jurisdiction of which disputes in
Bhubaneswar are settled.
Form O.S.L.-I
Claim bill for prize amount
Head of Services-"Demand No. 5-268-Miscellaneous General Services-State Lotteries -Payment of the Prize Amount".
Name and full address of the Prize winner.............
Father's name............
No. of Prize Winning ticket with No. of Series...........
Page 5/6
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Orissa State Lottery Rules, 1983
Rank of the Prize..........
Amount of Prize..........
Received this .................day of............20...........the sum of Rs ......................being the Prize Amount payable on the
Prize Winning ticket mentioned above and attached herewith.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 6/6