
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Orissa State Electricity Board Employees' Pension (including Old Age and Family Pensio...
The Orissa State Electricity Board Employees' Pension (including Old
Age and Family Pension) Regulations, 1992
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/77068677/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Odisha - Act
The Orissa State Electricity Board Employees' Pension (including Old Age and Family Pension) Regulations, 1992
ODISHA
India
The Orissa State Electricity Board Employees' Pension (including Old Age and Family Pension) Regulations, 1992
Rule
THE-ORISSA-STATE-ELECTRICITY-BOARD-EMPLOYEES-PENSION-INCLUDING-OLD-AGE-AND-FAMILY-PENSIO
N-REGULATIONS-1992 of 1992
Published on 1 January 1992
Commenced on 1 January 1992
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 1992.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Orissa State Electricity Board Employees' Pension (including Old Age and Family Pension) Regulations, 1992
Published vide Notification Orissa Gazette Extraordinary No. 923/1.7.1992-Notification No. 10320/28.3.1992
No. 10320 - The Orissa State Electricity Board Employees' Pension (including Old Age and Family Pension)
Regulations, 1992 made by the Orissa State Electricity Board under Section 79 (c) of the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948
and approved in its 317th meeting held on the 17th Match, 1992 vide Item No. 3.2 of the proceedings thereon, are
hereby published for general information.
In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 79 (c) of the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948, the Orissa State Electricity
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Orissa State Electricity Board Employees' Pension (including Old Age and Family Pensio...
Board, hereby makes the following regulations to regulate the grant of pensionary benefits including old age and family
pension to its employees.
1.
These regulations shall be called "The Orissa State Electricity Board Employees' Pension (including Old Age and Family
Pension) Regulations, 1992."
2.
Definitions.
(a)
"Board" means Orissa State Electricity Board constituted under Section 5 of the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948;
(b)
"Chairman" means Chairman of Orissa State Electricity Board;
(c)
"Permanent Employees" shall mean and include an employee who has either been confirmed in the service of the Board
or has held any post under the Board for a period of at least 3 years in the regular establishment;
(d)
"Regular Establishment" means an establishment under the Board other than work-charged establishment and units
employing Nominal Muster Roll, Casual Employees;
(e)
"Employees" means employees appointed by the Board to hold any post or service under regular establishment of the
Board but does not include-
(i)
Employees who have exercised their option of unwillingness to be covered by the pension scheme of the Board.
(ii)
Workmen engaged on the Nominal Muster Roll (N.M.R.).
(iii)
Casual Labourers.
(iv)
Employees paid from and out of contingencies.
(v)
Employees under contract service.
(vi)
Employees of Ex-Supply Company who have been absorbed in the service of Orissa State Electricity Board.
(vii)
Persons engaged as apprentices.
(viii)
Employees under the Work-Charged Establishments.
3.
The benefits under these regulations shall be available to all the regular employees of the Board with effect from
1.4.1990 :
Provided that the period of service rendered by such regular employees in the work-charged establishment shall count
towards pensionary benefits if such employees had been or are brought over to the regular establishment after
rendering a minimum period of five years of continuous service in the work-charged establishment :
Provided further that the following periods of service rendered by such employees shall not count towards the qualifying
service for pension-
(i)
The period of service rendered on Nominal Muster Roll (N.M.R.).
(ii)
The period of service rendered as Casual Labourers.
(iii)
The period of service rendered as contingency paid employees having received remuneration for such service from and
out of the contingent fund in any of the establishment under the Board.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Orissa State Electricity Board Employees' Pension (including Old Age and Family Pensio...
(iv)
The period of contract service.
(v)
The period of service rendered as apprentice.
4.
Entitlement.
(a)
All employees who become entitled to the pensionary benefits including the Old Age and Family Pension as may be
available under the Pension Scheme of the Orissa State Electricity Board, as framed under these regulations, shall
hereafter, cease to enjoy the benefit of Employees Provident Fund (E. P. F.) as envisaged under the provisions of
Employees Provident Fund and Misc. Provisions Act, 1952 or under the provisions of Orissa State Electricity Board
Employees' Provident Fund Rules, 1965, as the case may be :
Provided that the employees who are not covered by or under these regulations shall continue to be governed by the
provisions of the Orissa State Electricity Board Employees' Provident Fund Rules, 1965 and/or Employees' Provident
Fund and Misc. Provisions Act, 1952 and the schemes made thereunder, to the extent they applicable.
(b)
All employees of the Board covered by these regulations shall be liable to contribute to the Provident Fund as is
applicable to the State Government Employees under the Orissa Pension Rules, 1977.
5.
Subject to these regulations, the Orissa Pension Rules, 1971 as amended from time to time by the Government of
Orissa including all other orders, notifications, memoranda and resolutions issued by the State Government regulating
the Pensionary benefits from time to time shall mutatis and mutandis be the 'Pension Regulation' of the Orissa State
Electricity Board.
6.
The Board reserves the right to amend these regulations as may be considered necessary or expedient from time to
time, and to issue appropriate orders and directions for the purpose of implementing the Pension Regulations.
7.
All words and phrases, which have not been specifically defined herein, shall carry the same meaning as are assigned
to them under the Orissa Pension Rules, 1977 as if the said rules have been framed by the Board.
8.
If any doubt arises as to the interpretation of any of these regulations, the matter shall be referred to the Chairman of the
Board whose decision thereon shall be final.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3