
----- PAGE 1 -----
Orissa Aided Educational Institutions (Appointment of Lectures Validation) Act, 1998
Orissa Aided Educational Institutions (Appointment of Lectures
Validation) Act, 1998
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/176194573/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Odisha - Act
Orissa Aided Educational Institutions (Appointment of Lectures Validation) Act, 1998
ODISHA
India
Orissa Aided Educational Institutions (Appointment of Lectures Validation) Act, 1998
Act 14 of 1998
Published on 10 October 1998
Commenced on 10 October 1998
[This is the version of this document from 10 October 1998.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Orissa Aided Educational Institutions (Appointment of Lectures Validation) Act, 1998
(Orissa Act
14 of 1998
)
Last Updated 10th December, 2019
Received the assent of the Governor on the 10th October 1998, first published in an extraordinary issue of the Orissa
Gazette, dated the 17th October 1998.
An act to validate the appointments of certain lecturers of aided colleges and junior colleges in the state.
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Orissa in the Forty-ninth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
Orissa Aided Educational Institutions (Appointment of Lectures Validation) Act, 1998
1.
Short Title.
- This Act may be called the Orissa Aided Educational Institutions (Appointment of Lecturers Validation) Act, 1998.
2.
Definitions.
- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"aided College" means an aided educational institution which is a College;
(b)
"aided Junior College" means an aided educational Institution which is a Junior College;
(c)
"Education Act" means the Orissa Education Act, 1969 (Orissa Act
15 of 1969
);
(d)
"Selection Board" means the Selection Board constituted under the Education Act;
(e)
words and expressions used but not defined in this Act shall have the same meaning as respectively assigned it them in
the Education Act or the rules framed thereunder,
3.
Validation of certain appointments.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in the Education Act or in the rules framed thereunder, the Lecturers of Aided
Colleges and aided Junior College who have been appointed on temporary basis against approved or admissible posts
by the concerned Governing Bodies during the period between the 1st January 1985 and the 31st December 1992 and
are continuing as such, having the requisite qualification prescribed to hold such post and are in pay roll of the
concerned College against the said approved or admissible post, as the case may be, shall be deemed to have been
validly and regularly appointed, and no such appointment shall be challenged in any Court of law merely on the ground
that such appointment was made otherwise than in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Education Act or the
rules framed thereunder:
Provided that the validation of the appointments as aforesaid shall not put persons already appointed regularly and
validly or persons who may be appointed on the basis of the recommendation made by the Selection Board prior to the
commencement of this Act, in a disadvantageous position in any manner whatsoever.
(2)
The Lecturers whose appointments are so validated shall be governed by the Orissa (Non-Government Colleges, Junior
Colleges and Higher Secondary Schools) Grant-in-aid Order, 1994 for the purpose of their entitlements, but they shall
be entitled to receive grant-in-aid towards their salary cost only as per the scale of pay admissible to a Non-Government
College Lecture from time to time, with effect from the date of commencement of the Act.
Explanation. - The expressions "admissible post" and "approved post" shall have the same meaning as respectively
assigned to them in the Order referred to in sub-section (2) of the section,
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2