
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Inter Country Adoption of Child by Foreign Parents Rules, 1998
The Inter Country Adoption of Child by Foreign Parents Rules, 1998
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/128878207/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Odisha - Act
The Inter Country Adoption of Child by Foreign Parents Rules, 1998
ODISHA
India
The Inter Country Adoption of Child by Foreign Parents Rules, 1998
Rule THE-INTER-COUNTRY-ADOPTION-OF-CHILD-BY-FOREIGN-PARENTS-RULES-1998 of 1998
Published on 8 January 1999
Commenced on 8 January 1999
[This is the version of this document from 8 January 1999.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Inter Country Adoption of Child by Foreign Parents Rules, 1998
Published vide Notification Orissa Gazette Extraordinary No. 2 dated 8.1.1999
Published under the Authority of the High Court of Judicature, Orissa
Rules for inter country adoption of child by foreign parents framed by the High Court of Orissa, Cuttack.
The 21st December, 1998.
1.
The rule may be called as "The Inter Country Adoption" of Child by Foreign Parents Rules, 1998
2.
These rules shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Orissa Gazette.
3.
A foreigner desirous of being appointed as guardian of the person of the minor and praying for leave to remove the
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Inter Country Adoption of Child by Foreign Parents Rules, 1998
minor to a foreign country, shall.-
(i)
make an application for the purpose in the prescribed form to the appropriate authority under the Guardian and Wards
Act, 1890; and
(ii)
annex two copies of passport size photographs of the minor duly attested by the person having custody of the minor at
the time of application;
Provided that every application from a foreigner desirous of adopting a child must be sponsored by a social or child
welfare agency recognised or licensed by the Government of the country in which the foreigner is resident or by any
such agency recognised/licensed by the State/Union Government.
4.
(i)
If the Court is satisfied that there is ground for proceeding on the application it shall fix date of hearing of the application
and cause service of notice of the application on the Secretary, Indian Council of Social Welfare and Indian Council of
Child Welfare or any of their branches as the case may be by registered post.
(ii)
If neither of them appears/co-operate, the Court shall issue notice to an independent Child Welfare Agency operating in
the State after duly recognised by the State/Union Government.
5.
Every person appointed as guardian of the person of a minor shall execute a bond with or without surety or sureties of
such sum as the Court may fix having regard to the welfare of the minor to ensure his production in the Court as and
when so required by the Court.
6.
The Court passing an order for appointment of a foreign guardian or the person of an Indian minor shall countersign the
Photograph of the minor and issue the same alongwith the certificate of guardianship to the guardian or joint guardians
as the case may be.
7.
While passing the order, the Court shall ensure the overall interest of the Child as envisaged under the Guardian and
Wards Act, 1890 and an attempt should be made to find Indian parent or parent of Indian origin for the children so that
they may retain their culture and heritage.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2