
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Orissa Pension to Indigent Sports Persons Rules, 2000
The Orissa Pension to Indigent Sports Persons Rules, 2000
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/143996744/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Odisha - Act
The Orissa Pension to Indigent Sports Persons Rules, 2000
ODISHA
India
The Orissa Pension to Indigent Sports Persons Rules, 2000
Rule THE-ORISSA-PENSION-TO-INDIGENT-SPORTS-PERSONS-RULES-2000 of 2000
Published on 4 May 2001
Commenced on 4 May 2001
[This is the version of this document from 4 May 2001.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Orissa Pension to Indigent Sports Persons Rules, 2000
Published vide Notification Orissa Gazette (Supplementary) No. 9 dated 4.5.2001
1.
Short title and commencement.
- (i) These Rules shall be called the Orissa Pension to Indigent Sports Pensions Rules, 2000.
(ii)
They shall come into force with effect from the 1st April 2000.
2.
Determination of the number of pensioners.
- The Department of Sports and Youth Services shall having regard to the availability of funds, determine the number of
pensioners under the scheme. The number of pensioners shall be 200 (two hundred) and shall not until increased in
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Orissa Pension to Indigent Sports Persons Rules, 2000
consultation with the Finance Department be exceeded in any year in future. Every year 10% may be added until
maximum number 200 is reached.
3.
Procedure for selection of pensioners.
(1)
Immediately on the commencement of these rules, the Department of Sports and Youth Services shall proceed to select
pensioner in accordance with Sub-rules (2) to (5) as under.
(2)
There shall be a Selection Committee under the Chairmanship of the Minister-in-Charge. The Secretary, Sports and
Youth Services Department and another person having outstanding achievement in sports and games as player
nominated by the Minister shall be the member. The Director, Sports and Youth Services shall be Member-Secretary.
(3)
The Committee shall consider the cases of sports persons who have in the past been provided with some financial
assistance by Government or by Orissa Council of Sports and prepare list of sports persons eligible to the pension in
accordance with Rule 4. The Committee shall also be competent to include in the list of names of sports persons who
have not received any assistance in past but who are eligible to get pension. The list shall not however exceeds at any
time, the maximum number of pensioners determined in pursuance of Rule 2.
(4)
The Committee may in its opinion, it is necessary to authorise the Director, Sports and Youth Services to invite
application for pension from the indigent sports persons on the following disciplines including indigent martial arts
(Annexure I) through an advertisement in local dailies. The particulars to be furnished by each applicant shall be as may
be prescribed by the Sports Person Pension Committee.
(5)
The selection list prepared by the Committee shall be submitted to Government and shall be final after receipt of their
approval. Government may alter or modify the list submitted to them and such alternations and modifications shall be
incorporated in the list.
4.
Conditions of eligibility.
- (A) A sports person in order to be eligible to the pension should :
(i)
At least sixty years of age if a male and at least fifty years age if female, provided that the age limit in either case may be
relaxed by a maximum period of 10 years if the sports persons has been suddenly incapacited by an injury or a physical
handicap or suffering from a serious ailment resulting premature withdrawal from activate life.
(ii)
Not having income from whatever sources exceeding rupees twelve thousand per annum.
(iii)
Not having a son, or a daughter or a wife (a husband in case of a female sports person) whose annual income is rupees
twelve thousand per annum.
(iv)
Not have been convicted of any criminal offence provided that the Government may, having regard to the circumstances
of each case, waive this disability, if in their judgement the conviction was based on grounds other than moral turpitude.
(v)
Have made significant contribution to the recognised sports and games including martial arts and Akhadas those are the
traditional. Physical culture of the State of Orissa. In case of sports events, the applicant should have represented the
State at least twice in Senior level or junior level and in case of Martial Arts Akhadas, the applicant should have
participated at least 5 times either in State level or district level provided that it shall be competent for the committee to
consider case of eminent contributors to the States traditional physical culture based on skilled sportsmanship.
(B)
The Director, Sports and Youth Services shall be competent to cause necessary enquiries to ascertain the eligibility of
an sports person in terms of Clause (ii) to (v) of Sub-rule (1) above.
5.
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Orissa Pension to Indigent Sports Persons Rules, 2000
[ Quantum of pension.
[Substituted vide O.G. No. 32 dated 11.8.2006.]
- The pension of each pensioner is Rs.1,000 (Rupees one thousand) per month.]
(A)
The State Government may sanction pension to surviving spouse of the deceased indigent sports person (Paika Akhada
and other Akhada Persons) at the same rate of pension as was being paid to the deceased sports person/Paika Akhada
persons in special circumstances like object penury of the surviving widow/widower of the deceased pensioners.
The secretary of the Department or an officer nominated by him shall be competent to cause necessary enquiry to
ascertain the special circumstances of object penury for grant of special pension to the surviving spouse.
6.
Sanction of pension.
(1)
On receipt of the approval of Government in pursuance of Sub-rule (5) of the Rule 3, the Secretary of the Department
shall sanction the pension.
(2)
The Secretary of the Department shall maintain a list of persons in whose favour pension has been sanctioned in a
Registered in Form P.I.A-A.
(3)
Each sanction shall be recorded in the Register and a copy of the sanction order shall be sent to the Accounts Officer of
the Directorate. The sanction order shall be in Form P.I.A-B.
(4)
The Drawing Disbursing Officer of the Directorate of Sports and Youth services shall, on receipt of the sanction Register
in the Register of payment in Form P.I.A-C.
(5)
The pension will be payable with effect from the date mentioned in the sanction order, it shall become due for payment
only on expiry of the month to which it relates.
7.
Procedure to be followed by the Directorate of Sports and Y.S.
(1)
The pension shall be paid without any authority from the A.G., Orissa, Bhubaneswar by the D.D.O. by remittance to the
pensioner by money order or by demand draft every month. The money order commission or commission of demand
draft, if any, being borne by the Government.
(2)
The Director, Sports and Youth Services, Orissa shall prepare an identity card for the pensioner which should contain
the following information:
Block/Town/Municipality/N.A.C.
Grama Panchayat/Ward No.
(i)
Name of pensioner
?.
(ii)
Father's Name
?.
(iii)
Full Address (Via P.O., District and Pincode)
?.
(iv)
Age of the pension holder on the date of sanction
?.
(v)
Number allotted to the Pensioner
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Orissa Pension to Indigent Sports Persons Rules, 2000
?.
Signature/Thumb Impressionof the Pensioner
Signature of the Director,Sports and Y.S., Orissa.
Note. - One passport size photograph duly defaced by the seal and signature of the Director, Sports and Y. S. shall be
affixed to the right hand corner of the Identity Card. Another passport size photograph duly attested by Director; Sports
and Y.S. is to be pasted in a Register against the number allotted to the pension holder. The Register shall contain all
the information of Identity Card.
(3)
No payment will be made for a month unless the money order or demand draft acknowledgement receipt has been
received in respect of the payment for the previous month and note to that effect be received in the Register maintained
for the purpose.
(4)
The D.D.O. shall check the Register atleast once in every month and sign the Register on token of verification. In case
any payment returned or undelivered due to change of address or otherwise, the cases shall remain suspended till the
pensioner informs in writing the change of address of the Director after necessary enquiries orders resumption of
payment.
8.
Cancellation of pension.
- The pension granted to the indigent sports person shall be cancelled -
(i)
On his death; or
(ii)
On the satisfaction of the Government that the information furnished to the Committee constituted in pursuance of
Sub-rule (2) of the Rule 3 was either erroneous or incomplete; or
(iii)
On the determination of the Government that the pensioner has indulged in activities prejudicial to public interest or
public order or
(iv)
On his ceasing to have the disabilities referred to in Clauses (ii) and (iii) of Rule 4.
9.
The expenditure shall be debitable to Demand No. 15-2235-Social Security and Welfare-State Plan-Sector
State-60-Other Social Security and Welfare Programmes-102-Pension under Social Security
Schemes-3800200-Pension to Indigent Sportsmen, The Director, Sports and Youth Services or any Gazette Officer or
Directorate authorised by him will be Drawing and Disbursing Officer and the Secretary of the Department shall be the
Controlling Officer.
10.
In the month of April each year, the pensioner shall furnish or the Director, Sports and Youth Services or Accounts
Officer, a life certificate in Form P.I.A-D signed by a Member of Parliament or State Legislature, any Gazetted Officer, a
Chairman of Municipality or Panchayat Samiti or Notified Area Council. Such a certificate, even if it is strictly not in Form
P.I.A-D will be accepted if its contents serve the purpose.
11.
This would take effect from the 1st April 2000. This supercedes all orders/resolutions issued earlier to this effect.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4