
----- PAGE 1 -----
Permanent and Continuous Lok Adalat with Conciliation and Counselling Centre Scheme, 2000
Permanent and Continuous Lok Adalat with Conciliation and
Counselling Centre Scheme, 2000
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/189465318/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Odisha - Act
Permanent and Continuous Lok Adalat with Conciliation and Counselling Centre Scheme, 2000
ODISHA
India
Permanent and Continuous Lok Adalat with Conciliation and Counselling Centre Scheme, 2000
Rule
PERMANENT-AND-CONTINUOUS-LOK-ADALAT-WITH-CONCILIATION-AND-COUNSELLING-CENTRE-SCHEME-20
00 of 2000
Published on 31 January 2001
Commenced on 31 January 2001
[This is the version of this document from 31 January 2001.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Permanent and Continuous Lok Adalat with Conciliation and Counselling Centre Scheme, 2000
Published vide Notification SRO No. 62/2001, Orissa Gazette Extraordinary No. 137 dated 31.1.2001
S.R.O. No. 62/26th January, 2001. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 7(1) of the Orissa State Legal
Services Authority Act, 1987. The Orissa State Legal Services Authority do hereby give effect to the enclosed scheme of
establishment of Permanent and Continuous Lok Adalat with Conciliation and Counselling Centre sponsored by National
Legal Service Authority, New Delhi (Central Authority) and approved by the Hon'ble Full Court.
Scheme For Establishment of Permanent and Continuous Lok Adalat as Well as Counselling and Conciliation Centres in
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Permanent and Continuous Lok Adalat with Conciliation and Counselling Centre Scheme, 2000
the Undivided 13 Districts of Orissa in the Court Premises of the Respective District Judges
1.
Short title and Commencement.
- (i) The Scheme may be called Permanent and Continuous Lok Adalat with Conciliation and Counselling Centre
Scheme, 2000.
(ii)
This shall come into force on such date as the Orissa Legal Service Authority/Orissa High Court by notification in the
Gazette Appoint.
2.
Definition.
(a)
"Permanent and Continuous Lok Adalat" - Means Lok Adalat established for continuously providing as additional forum
to the litigants for conciliatory settlement of their disputes and cases.
(b)
"Counselling and Conciliation Centres" - This is ancillary to permanent and continuous Lok Adalat whose endeavour
shall be to settle the disputes and cases amicably in presence of the parties before placing the same in the permanent
and continuous Lok Adalat.
(c)
"Permanent Lok Adalat Judge" - Registrar of the District Courts functioning as the Secretary of the District Legal
Services Authority or some other Judicial Officer as nominated by the Executive Chairman shall work as the permanent
Lok Adalat Judge.
(d)
"Members of Conciliation and Counselling Centre" - Two members of the District Legal Service Authority shall be
nominated by the Chairman of the said Authority to act as conciliators in the District Counselling and Conciliatory
Centres.
(e)
"Disputes and Cases" - Both pending cases as well as disputes at pre-litigation stage.
3.
Function.
(a)
In pre-litigation/disputes the grievance application of the party shall be registered as Legal Aid Application by the District
Authority, for which a register is to be maintained. After receipt of such application the District Authority shall examine
the bona fides and prospects of the claim. It feels just to proceed ahead it shall issue notice to the adversary for an
amicable settlement of the disputes. No sooner the adversary appears the dispute shall be referred to the conciliation
centre whose endeavour shall be to convince the parties to settle their differences through bilateral dialogues subject to
the supervision of the conciliators. In case the conciliators are successful in resolving the dispute the matter with
appropriate proposal shall be placed before the permanent Lok Adalat Judge for final disposal. In the event of such
disposal it shall amount to a decree in accordance with the provisions of Section 21 of the Legal Services Authorities
Act, 1987.
(b)
The preservation of such decrees till a Permanent Records Room is made available, the record after its disposal shall
be kept in the District Record Room.
(c)
As regards pending cases no sooner appearance is complete and the Court feels just and appropriate, shall refer the
case to the District Permanent and Continuous Lok Adalat. A register shall be maintained at the receiving point showing
the receipt of record of such cases. Then the Permanent and Continuous Lok Adalat shall make an attempt involving the
Counselling and Conciliation Centre for amicable settlement. In case the Conciliators succeed in their efforts they shall
remit the record to the permanent Lok Adalat for disposal in accordance with the settlement. After such disposal the
Judge Permanent Lok Adalat shall send the record to the Court who was in cession thereof for consignment to the
District Record Room.
4.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Permanent and Continuous Lok Adalat with Conciliation and Counselling Centre Scheme, 2000
Infrastructure.
(a)
The respective District Judges shall provide two rooms, one for the Counselling and Conciliation Centre and another for
the Permanent and Continuous Lok Adalat of the District.
(b)
The Jr. Clerk-cum-Typist posted at the disposal of the Taluk level Legal Aid functionaries within the judgeship shall be
the custodian of the records and in-charge of maintenance of all registers referred to above. The maintenance of the
registers and records shall be monitored by the Permanent and Continuous Lok Adalat Judge. The District Permanent
and Continuous Lok Adalat shall utilise the services of the District Court Nizarat to procure the attendance of the parties.
5.
Number of sittings of Permanent and Continuous Lok Adalat and Counselling and Conciliation Centre.
- The number of sitting shall be worked out by the permanent Lok Adalat Judge depending upon work load. For the
Present, Permanent and Continuous Lok Adalat sitting may be confined to once in a fortnight and so also Conciliation
and Counselling Centre.
6.
Term of office.
(a)
The Registrar, District Court shall continue to work as the Permanent and Continuous Lok Adalat Judge as long as he
holds the office of the Registrar and Functions as the Secretary of the District Legal Service Authority.
(b)
The Conciliators nominated by the Chairman of District Legal Service Authority shall continue for a term of 2 years and
shall be eligible for renomination subject to suitability.
7.
Remuneration.
(a)
Since the Registrar is working as Secretary of the District Legal Services Authority and getting honorarium as per rules,
there is no necessity to make further payment to him for his nomination as Permanent and Continuous Lok Adalat
Judge.
(b)
The conciliators are entitled to get allowance which shall be fixed per sitting basis by the State Authority.
8.
Progress Report.
- The District Legal Services Authority shall submit a progress report every month regarding the functioning and
achievements of Permanent and Continuous Lok Adalat and Counselling and Conciliation Centre to the State Authority.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3