
----- PAGE 1 -----
Orissa (Subordinate) Finance Service (Treasury Branch) Rules, 2001
Orissa (Subordinate) Finance Service (Treasury Branch) Rules, 2001
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/168148912/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Odisha - Act
Orissa (Subordinate) Finance Service (Treasury Branch) Rules, 2001
ODISHA
India
Orissa (Subordinate) Finance Service (Treasury Branch) Rules, 2001
Rule ORISSA-SUBORDINATE-FINANCE-SERVICE-TREASURY-BRANCH-RULES-2001 of 2001
Published on 10 April 2001
Commenced on 10 April 2001
[This is the version of this document from 10 April 2001.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Orissa (Subordinate) Finance Service (Treasury Branch) Rules, 2001
Published vide Notification No. 27009-TRE-2/2000.F, dated 10th April, 2001, Orissa Gazette Extraordinary No. 713
dated 28.4.2001
No. 27009-TRE-2/2000.F. - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso Article 309 of the Constitution of India,
the Governor of Orissa is pleased to make the following rules for regulating the method of recruitment and the conditions
of service of persons appointed to the Orissa Subordinate Finance Service (Treasury Branch), namely :
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Orissa (Subordinate) Finance Service (Treasury Branch) Rules, 2001.
(2)
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
Orissa (Subordinate) Finance Service (Treasury Branch) Rules, 2001
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Orissa Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
(1)
In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires-
(a)
"Appointing Authority" means the Director of Treasuries and Inspection, Orissa.
(b)
"Division" means division as in the Orissa Revenue Divisional Commissioner Act, 1957;
(c)
"Government" means the Government of Orissa;
(d)
"Scheduled Castes" shall have reference to the Scheduled Castes specified in the Constitution (Scheduled Castes)
Order, 1950 made under Article 341 of the Constitution of India;
(e)
"Scheduled Tribes" shall have reference to the Scheduled Tribes specified in the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order,
1950 made under Article 342 of the Constitution of India;
(f)
"Service" means the Orissa Subordinate Finance Service (Treasury Branch); and
(g)
"Year" means a calendar year.
(2)
All other words and expressions used but not defined in these rule, unless the context otherwise requires, shall have the
same meaning as respectively assigned to them in the Orissa Service Code.
3.
Composition of the Service.
- The service shall consist of permanent and temporary post of Accountants as may be determined by the Director of
Treasuries and Inspection, Orissa from time to time.
4.
Appointing Authority.
- The Director of Treasuries and Inspection, Orissa shall be the appointing authority of the persons appointed to the
posts in the service.
5.
Method of recruitment.
- The vacancies arising in a year in the cadre of Accountants shall be filled up by way of promotion from among the
eligible Senior Clerks of the Treasuries, Special Treasuries and Sub-Treasuries within a Division.
6.
Eligibility for Promotion to the Post of Accountant.
- No person shall be eligible for Promotion to the post of Accountant unless he has completed fifteen years of service in
the post of Junior Clerk and Senior Clerk taken together including four years in the post of Senior Clerk on the first day
of January of the year in which promotion is made and has passed the Final accounts examinations conducted by the
Madhusudan Institute of Accounts and Finance.
7.
Selection Board.
- There shall be constituted a Selection Board consisting of the following members to consider promotion to the grade of
Accountants.
(a)
Director of Treasuries and Inspection, Orissa
...
Chairman
(b)
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
Orissa (Subordinate) Finance Service (Treasury Branch) Rules, 2001
Additional Director of Treasuries and Inspection, Orissa
...
Member
(c)
Joint Secretary/Deputy Secretary, Finance Department dealing
with the Treasury Administration
...
Member
(d)
Deputy Director of Treasuries and Inspection, Orissa
...
Member-Secretary.
8.
Preparation of selection list.
- The Selection Board shall prepare the list of persons fit for promotion to the grade of Accountants equal to the number
of vacancies and the said list shall ordinarily remain valid for one year from the date of its approval by the appointing
authority.
9.
Selection Procedure.
- Provisions of the Orissa Reservation of Vacancies in Posts and Services (for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes)
Act, 1975 and rules made thereunder, Orissa Civil Service (Zone of Consideration for Promotion) Rules, 1988 and
Orissa Civil Services (Criteria for Promotion) Rules, 1992 and instructions issued in General Administration Department
Office Memorandum regarding Sealed Cover Procedure shall be followed by the Selection Board.
10.
Probation.
(1)
Every person, on his appointment to the service shall be on probation for a period of one year.
(2)
If performance, during probation is unsatisfactory, he/she may be reverted to the immediate lower grade.
(3)
The Probation Period shall not include the following :
(a)
extraordinary leave;
(b)
period of unauthorised absence; and
(c)
any other period for which the person concerned is held not be on actual duty.
11.
Confirmation in service.
- On successful completion of the probation, the members of the service may be confirmed against a substantive post.
12.
Seniority.
- The inter se seniority of members of the service shall be in the order in which their names appeared in the list prepared
by the Selection Board.
13.
Relaxation.
- When Government are of the opinion that it is necessary of expedient so to do it may, for reasons to be recorded in
writing, relax any of the provisions of these rules in respect of any class of category in the public interest.
14.
Interpretation.
- If any question arises relating to interpretation of these rules, it shall be referred to Government in Finance Department
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
Orissa (Subordinate) Finance Service (Treasury Branch) Rules, 2001
for decision.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4