
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Orissa Grama Panchayats (Minor Forest Produce Administration) Rules, 2002
The Orissa Grama Panchayats (Minor Forest Produce Administration)
Rules, 2002
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/12957248/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Odisha - Act
The Orissa Grama Panchayats (Minor Forest Produce Administration) Rules, 2002
ODISHA
India
The Orissa Grama Panchayats (Minor Forest Produce Administration) Rules, 2002
Rule THE-ORISSA-GRAMA-PANCHAYATS-MINOR-FOREST-PRODUCE-ADMINISTRATION-RULES-2002 of 2002
Published on 14 November 2002
Commenced on 14 November 2002
[This is the version of this document from 14 November 2002.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Orissa Grama Panchayats (Minor Forest Produce Administration) Rules, 2002
Published vide Notification S.R.O. No.934/2002, dated 14th November, 2002, Orissa Gazette Extraordinary No. 2091
dated 15.11.2002
Panchayati Raj (G.P.) Department
S.R.O. No.934/2002 dated 14th November, 2002 - Whereas the draft of certain rules which the State Government
propose to make in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (w) of Sub-section (1) of Section 44 read with Section
150 of the Orissa Grama Panchayats Act, 1964 (Orissa Act
1 of 1965
), was published as required by Sub-section (1) of Section 150 of the said Act in the extraordinary issue No. 1241, dated
Page 1/9
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Orissa Grama Panchayats (Minor Forest Produce Administration) Rules, 2002
the 9th August 2002 of the Orissa Gazette under the notification of Government of Orissa in the Panchayati Raj (Grama
Panchayat) Department NO.9570/G.P., dated the 6th July 2002 bearing S.R.O. No.701/2002 inviting objections and
suggestions from all persons likely to be affected thereby till the expiry of a period of thirty days from the date of
publication of the same in the Orissa Gazette;
And whereas objections and suggestions received during the period specified above have been duly considered by the
State Government.
Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (w) of Subsection (1) of Section 44 read with Section 150
of the said Act, the State Government do hereby make the following rules, namely :-
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Orissa Grama Panchayats (Minor Forest Produce Administration) Rules, 2002.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
(1)
In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires, -
(i)
"Act" means the Orissa Grama Panchayats Act, 1964;
(ii)
"Form" means a form appended to these rules;
(iii)
"Minor Forest Produce" means any or all of the Minor Forest Produces specified in the Schedule appended to these
rules;
(iv)
"Section" means Section of the Act; and
(v)
"Training year" means the seasonal year commencing from the first day of October and completing on the thirtieth day of
September of the following year.
(2)
All other words and expression used but not defined in these rules shall have the same meaning as have been
respectively assigned to them in the Act.
3.
Regulating procurement and trading of minor forest produce.
(1)
The Grama Panchayat shall have the power to regulate procurement and trading of minor forest produce whether
produced in Government lands and forest areas within the limits of the Grama or collected from Reserve Forests and
brought into the Grama.
(2)
In case of the forest areas where Vana Sanrakshyana Samiti has been formed the Grama Panchayats shall give priority
to such Samities and its members in the matter of collection and trading of minor forest produce.
4.
Registration of trades.
(1)
Any person intending to procure Minor Forest Produce from the primary gatherers or to trade in minor forest produce
within the limits of Grama during any trading year shall register himself as a trader in Minor Forest Produce in the Grama
Panchayat.
(2)
Any person intending to be registered as a trader in minor forest produce shall apply to the Grama Panchayat in Form
No.1. All such applications shall be placed before the Grama Panchayat immediately in its next meeting and with the
Page 2/9
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Orissa Grama Panchayats (Minor Forest Produce Administration) Rules, 2002
approval of the Grama Panchayat the Sarpanch shall register the applicant as a trader in minor forest produce for one
trading year ending next September and grant a Certificate of Registration in Form No. 2 to that effect.
(3)
The names of all the traders of minor forest produce registered under Sub-rule (2) each year shall be recorded in a
Permanent Register to be maintained in Form No. 3 in the Grama Panchayat.
(4)
At the time of filing of application under Sub-rule (2) the applicant shall deposit with the Grama Panchayats the required
registration fees for each item of Minor Forest Produce applied for.
(5)
No application for registration shall be entertained if the required fees has not been deposited under Sub-rule (4)
(6)
The fees for registration for every item of Minor Forest Produce shall be such as may be notified by Government from
time to time.
5.
Fixation of minimum price of the minor forest produce.
- (i) (a) In the month of September every year the Panchayat Samiti shall, by adopting a resolution to that affect., fix-up
the minimum price of procurement of different Minor Forest Produces payable to the primary gatherers during the next
trading year, which shall be applicable to all the Grama Panchayats within the Block;
Provided the Grama Panchayat shall be competent to modify the minimum price so fixed under this Sub-rule or Sub-rule
(3) by the Panchayat Samiti according to the local need by adopting a resolution to that effect.
(b)
The representatives of Divisional Forest Office, Tribal Development Cooperative Corporation, Orissa Forest
Development Corporation and Tribal Co-operative Marketing Development Federation of India Ltd., shall be invited to
the meetings convened under this sub-rule or under Sub-rule (3).
(2)
The minimum price fixed under sub-rule (1) or Sub-rule (3) shall be notified in the notice board of the Panchayat Samiti
and copies thereof shall be communicated to the Collector, Divisional Forest Officer. District Panchayat Officer,
Sub-Collector and all the Grama Panchayat within the Block.
(3)
If at any time or in any case it appears to the Collector that a Panchayat Samiti has failed to fix up the minimum price for
procurement of Minor Forest Produce under Sub-rule (1) the Collector shall convene a Special Meeting of the
Panchayat Samiti preferably in the month of October to fix-up the minimum price of procurement of Minor Forest
Produce.
(4)
On receipt of intimation under Sub-rule (2) regarding fixation of the minimum procurement price of the Minor Forest
Produce fixed under Sub-rule (1) or (3) the Grama Panchayat shall place the same before the Grama Sabha in its next
meeting for ratification.
6.
Furnishing of returns.
(1)
A trader registered under these rules shall furnish a monthly return of Minor Forest Produce to the Grama Panchayat
within fifteen days of the following month in Form No. 3.
(2)
Within one month of the closure of the trading year the dealer shall also file an annual return of the Minor Forest
Produce for the trading year in Form No. 3.
(3)
The Grama Panchayat shall communicate a copy of the annual return received under sub-rule (2) to the Forest Range
Officer concerned.
7.
Cancellation.
(1)
Page 3/9
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Orissa Grama Panchayats (Minor Forest Produce Administration) Rules, 2002
If at any time or in respect of any case it appears to the Sarpanch, that a trader, registered under these rules, has failed
to-
(i)
Pay the minimum price of procurement to the Primary gatherers fixed by the Grama Panchayat in Minor Forest Produce;
(ii)
register himself in the Grama Panchayat; or
(iii)
Comply with the conditions of registration; the Sarpanch shall issue a notice to such dealer or person, as the case may
be to show cause as to why the registration shall not be cancelled or action shall not be taken against him for such
illegal trading.
(2)
If such trader or person fails to show cause within seven days of receipt of the notice or show cause which is not
satisfactory, the Sarpanch shall conduct an inquiry and after giving the traders or the person an opportunity of being
heard, place his inquiry report before the Grama Panchayat in its next meeting together with the explanation, if any,
received from such trader or person for its decision.
(3)
On consideration of the inquiry report of the Sarpanch and the explanation of the trader if the Grama Panchyayat are
satisfied that circumstances specified in Sub-rule (1) exist in relation to such trader or person, the Grama Panchayat
shall resolve to cancel the registration of the dealer for the trading year and may also refuse to register him as trader for
the subsequent trading years;
Provided that if the person is engaged in the trading of minor forest produce without registering himself in Grama
Panchayat the Sarpanch or Secretary of the Grama Panchayat shall lodge necessary complaint before the Divisional
Forest Officer concerned for taking appropriate action against the person concerned for such illegal trade under the
appropriate provisions of law.
(4)
In pursuance of the decisions of the Grama Panchayat under Sub-rule (3), the Sarpanch/Secretary shall cancel the
registration of the trader and in case of the person carrying an illegal trade in Minor Forest Produce, the Sarpanch shall
forthwith lode the complaint with the concerned Divisional Forest Officer.
(5)
If after cancellation of the registration under Sub-rule (4) it appears to the Sarpanch/Secretary that the trader is still
continuing his trade in the Minor Forest Produce, the Sarpanch/Secretary shall report the matter to the Divisional Forest
Officer for taking action against the person under the appropriate provisions of law.
(6)
The item of Minor Forest Produce seized by the Divisional Forest Officer from the dealer or person shall be sold by
public auction and the sale proceeds thereof be deposited under the appropriate Head of Account as provided under the
Orissa Forest Act.
8.
Appeal.
- Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Grama Panchayat under these rules may prefer an appeal under Section
133 of the Act. The appeal shall be disposed of within thirty days from the date of admission of the appeal.
9.
Deemed traders.
(1)
Public Sector undertakings like the Orissa Forest Development Corporation, Tribal Development Co-operative
Corporation and Tribal Co-operative Marketing Development Federation of India Ltd., shall be deemed to have been
registered under these rules.
(2)
Notwithstanding the relaxation provided under Sub-rule (1), the provisions of rules 6, 7 and 3 shall apply to these public
sector undertakings.
10.
Issuance of instructions.
Page 4/9
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Orissa Grama Panchayats (Minor Forest Produce Administration) Rules, 2002
- The Government may from time to time, issue such instructions as occasion may require for,-
(a)
smooth implementation of these rules and
(b)
removal of any doubt or difficulties arising out of implementation of these rules.
Schedule
(See rule 2(i)(iii))
List Minor Forest Produces
1. Tamarind, de-seeded Tamarind, Tamarind seeds.
2. Mahua Flower
3. Hill Brooms
4. Thorn Broom (Jhadu or Ghoda Lanji)
5. Phula Jhadu
6. Broom Grass
7. Nux Vomica (Kochila Seeds)
8. Hardad
9. Bahada
10. Anla
11.
Soap Nut (Ritha Phala)
12.
Marking Nut (Bhalia)
13.
Cleaning Nut (Nirmala)
14.
Honey
15.
Siali Leaves
16.
Sabai Grass
17.
Mango Kernel
18.
Thatch Grass
19.
Simul Cotton
20.
Arrow Root (Palua)
21.
Dhatuki Flower
22.
Putrani
23.
Sikakai
24.
Jungal Jada or Gaba
25.
Palasa Seed
26.
Siali Seed
27.
Page 5/9
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Orissa Grama Panchayats (Minor Forest Produce Administration) Rules, 2002
Indra Jaba (Korai Seed)
28.
Gila (Seed and Coat)
29.
Benachera
30.
Bana Haladi
31.
Gaba
32.
Basil
33.
Bana Kalatha
34.
Makhena Seed (Kanta Padma)
35.
Tala Makhana Seed
36.
Baidanka Seeds
37.
Baghanakhi Seeds
38.
Kamala Gundi Fruit
39.
Landa Baguli
40.
Bela
41.
Chiraita (Bhui Neem)
42.
Khajuripata
43.
Riohini Fruit
44.
Bhurusunga Leaves
45.
Phenaphena Fruit
46.
Rasana Root
47.
Sidha Fruit
48.
Sethabari
49.
Kitha Lal
50.
Aundi Lal
51.
Khelua Lal
52.
Suam Lal
Page 6/9
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Orissa Grama Panchayats (Minor Forest Produce Administration) Rules, 2002
53.
Eksira Fruit
54.
Katha Chhatu (Mushroom)
55.
Mat Reed(Sapa Masina Grass)
56.
Anania Mula
57.
Antia Pata
58.
Nageswar Flower
59.
Mankad Kendu
60.
Atundi Fruit
61.
Mahula Seed
62.
Kusum Seed
63.
Karanja Seed
64.
Neem Seed
65.
Char Seed
66.
Chakunda Seed
67.
Babul Seed
68.
Baibirang Seed
Form No.1
[See rule 4(2)]
Application Form for registration of trading in Minor Forest Produce.
To
The Sarpanch..................Grama Panchayat
Sir,
I sri.............. Village/Post.........do hereby apply for registration as a dealer in Minor Forest Produce in Grama Panchayat.
Detail of Trade
1. Name of the business organisation with full address
2. Relationship of the applicant with the organisation-
3. Applicants name/Fathers name/Permanent Address :
4. The name of the Minor Forest Produce the dealer wants to deal:
5. Type of business;
Retail/Wholesale or both
6. Amount deposited for registration with registration with receipt number and date
7. Trading year for which registration is applied for
8. Name and address of the place where Minor Forest Produce to be stored
I hereby declare that............
1. I Shall abide the rules and regulations framed by Govt, for trading in Minor Forest Produce.
Page 7/9
----- PAGE 8 -----
The Orissa Grama Panchayats (Minor Forest Produce Administration) Rules, 2002
2. I Undertake that I shall not default in making payment the registration fees and other dues fixed by the Grama
Panchayat.
3. That facts stated above are true to the best of my knowledge and belief.
Yours faithfully,
Signature of the Applicant.
Received Rs (Rupees) only towards registration for vide receipt No dated..............
Secretary
Order
The application be placed in the next Grama Panchayat meeting for consideration.
Sarpanch
Grama Panchayat
Form No.2
[See rule 4(2)]
Certificate of registration for trading in Minor Forest Produce................Grama Panchayat.................
Sri...............Son of......
Village..........Post..........Dist......
Registered as a dealer in Minor Forest Produce.
1. Registration No.
2. Trading year for which the registration is granted.
3. Description of Minor Forest Produce to be dealt with by the dealer
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
{|
|-
| Secretary
| Sarapanch
|-
| ............Grama Panchayat
| ............Grama Panchayat
|}
N.B : Rules and regulations of registration noted backside:-
Renewal Report
Date of renew
Trading year for which renewal is granted
Signature of Secretary
Signature of Sarpanch
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
Conditions of Registration
1. Registered Minor Forest Produces shall be purchased only from the Primary gatherers as per the price fixed from
time to time.
2. While purchasing the Minor Forest Produce from the Primary gatherers the Registered dealer shall ensure proper
weight of the produces so purchased and the full cost thereof shall be paid to the primary gatherers on the spot.
3. The registered dealer shall submit a monthly return in the prescribed form to the concerned Forest Ranger and the
Grama Panchayat.
4. The registered dealer shall abide by all such guidelines as may be issued from time to time.
Form No.3
Page 8/9
----- PAGE 9 -----
The Orissa Grama Panchayats (Minor Forest Produce Administration) Rules, 2002
[See Rule 4(3)]
Minor Forest Produce
Monthly/annual Return.
For The Month/trading Year
Name of the dealer
Registration No.
Name of the Grama Panchayat:
District...........
Sl. No.
Item of MFP
Opening balance in Kg.
Quantity procured during the month trading year
Total in Kg.
Rate paid
Quantity sold or diverted during the period
Balance at the end of the reporting period
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
Declaration : I declare that the above information are true and correct to my knowledge.
Signature of the dealer.
Form No.4
[See rule 6(3)]
Register Of M.F.P. Dealers
Name of the Grama Panchayat:
Trading year:
Sl. No.
Name and address of the dealer
Registration No
Date of registration
Trading year
Remarks
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 9/9