
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Orissa Service of Engineers (Validation of Appointment) Act, 2001
The Orissa Service of Engineers (Validation of Appointment) Act,
2001
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/186823649/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Odisha - Act
The Orissa Service of Engineers (Validation of Appointment) Act, 2001
ODISHA
India
The Orissa Service of Engineers (Validation of Appointment) Act, 2001
Act 1 of 2002
Published on 5 February 2002
Commenced on 5 February 2002
[This is the version of this document from 5 February 2002.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Orissa Service of Engineers (Validation of Appointment) Act, 2001
Orissa Act
1 of 2002
[Dated 5th February, 2002]
Published vide Orissa Gazette Extraordinary No. 171 dated 6.2.2002.
No. 1809-Legislative. - The following Act of the Orissa Legislative Assembly having been assented to by the Governor
on the 31st January, 2002 is hereby published or general information.
An Act to validate the ad hoc appointment of certain Assistant Engineers made to the Orissa Service of Engineers
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Orissa in the Fifty-second Year of the Republic of India as follows :
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Orissa Service of Engineers (Validation of Appointment) Act, 2001
1.
Short title.
- This Act may be called the Orissa Service of Engineers (Validation of Appointment) Act, 2001.
2.
Definitions.
- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, -
(a)
"Government" means the Government of Orissa;
(b)
"Recruitment rules" means the Orissa Service of Engineers" Rules 1941; and
(c)
"Service" means the Orissa Service of Engineers.
3.
Validation.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in the Recruitment Rules, thirty-nine Assistant Engineers as specified in the
Schedule indicating their names, dates of birth and dates of appointment who were appointed to the Service on ad hoc
basis by Government in the Works and Housing and Urban Development Departments of Government to meet the
urgent requirement of the said Departments, and are continuing as such, shall be deemed to have been validly and
regularly appointed to the service under said Departments with effect from the date of commencement of this Act and,
accordingly, no such appointment shall be challenged in any Court of law merely on the ground that such appointment
was made otherwise than in accordance with the Recruitment Rules.
(2)
The Assistant Engineers whose appointments are so validated under Sub-section (1) shall be en bloc junior to those
who have been appointed to the Service under the respective Departments in accordance with the Recruitment Rules
prior to the commencement of this Act.
(3)
The inter se seniority of the said Assistant Engineers in the Service under the respective Departments shall be in
accordance with the order of precedence in which their names occur in column (2) of the Schedule.
(4)
The services rendered by the said Assistant Engineers prior to the commencement of this At shall count for the purpose
of pension, leave and increment, and for no other purpose.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2