
----- PAGE 1 -----
Rajasthan Police (Integration) Ordinance, 1949
Rajasthan Police (Integration) Ordinance, 1949
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/49096843/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Rajasthan - Act
Rajasthan Police (Integration) Ordinance, 1949
RAJASTHAN
India
Rajasthan Police (Integration) Ordinance, 1949
Act 3 of 1949
Published on 16 April 1949
Commenced on 16 April 1949
[This is the version of this document from 16 April 1949.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Rajasthan Police (Integration) Ordinance, 1949
Ordinance No. 3 of 1949, Published in the Rajasthan Gazette ( Raj-Patra) Extraordinary No. 5  dated 16-4-1949.
(Promulgated by His Highness the Rajpramukh on the 15th day of April, 1959)
An Ordinance to provide for the integration of the Police of Rajasthan.
Whereas in the interests of the peace and good Government of Rajasthan it is expedient to provide for the integration of
the Police of Rajasthan;
Now, therefore, in exercise of the authority vested in him by paragraph (3) of Article X of the Covenant, His Highness the
Rajpramukh is pleased to make and promulgate the following Ordinance-
1.
Short title, extent and commencement.
(1)
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
Rajasthan Police (Integration) Ordinance, 1949
This Ordinance may be called the Rajasthan Police (Integration) Ordinance, 1949.
(2)
It shall extend to the whole of Rajasthan and shall come into force at once.
2.
Integration of the Police of Rajasthan
- Notwithstanding anything contained in any existing law referred to in section 3 of the Rajasthan Administration
Ordinance No. I of 1949)-
(a)
the whole of Rajasthan shall be deemed to be one general police district;
(b)
all police establishments constituted under any such law within Rajasthan shall be deemed to be one police force, and
subject to the superintendence and control of the Government of Rajasthan the superintendence, administration and
control of such police force shall be vested in an officer to be appointed by the said Government and to be styled the
Inspector-General of Police of Rajasthan.
(c)
any Inspector-General of Police appointed under such law shall subject to the superintendence and control of the
Inspector-General of Police of Rajasthan, and subject to such limitation as may from time to time be imposed by the
Government of Rajasthan continue to exercise their powers and shall be designated as Additional Inspector-General of
Police within their respective limits of jurisdiction;
(d)
the Inspector-General of Police of Rajasthan shall have the full powers of a Magistrate throughout the territories of
Rajasthan; but shall exercise those powers subject to such limitations as may from time to time be imposed by the
Government of Rajasthan.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2