
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Rajasthan Civil Services (Special Selection and Special Conditions of Service of Distr...
The Rajasthan Civil Services (Special Selection and Special
Conditions of Service of District Adult Education Officers, Project
Officers, Assistant Project Officers and Supervisors in the Adult
Education Programme) Rules, 1980
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/37642178/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Rajasthan - Act
The Rajasthan Civil Services (Special Selection and Special Conditions of Service of District Adult Education Officers,
Project Officers, Assistant Project Officers and Supervisors in the Adult Education Programme) Rules, 1980
RAJASTHAN
India
The Rajasthan Civil Services (Special Selection and Special Conditions of Service of District Adult Education Officers,
Project Officers, Assistant Project Officers and Supervisors in the Adult Education Programme) Rules, 1980
Rule
THE-RAJASTHAN-CIVIL-SERVICES-SPECIAL-SELECTION-AND-SPECIAL-CONDITIONS-OF-SERVICE-OF-DISTRIC
T-ADULT-EDUCATION-OFFICERS-PROJECT-OFFICERS-ASSISTANT-PROJECT-OFFICERS-AND-SUPERVISORS-I
N-THE-ADULT-EDUCATION-PROGRAMME-RULES-1980 of 1980
Published on 25 May 1980
Commenced on 25 May 1980
[This is the version of this document from 25 May 1980.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Page 1/7
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Rajasthan Civil Services (Special Selection and Special Conditions of Service of Distr...
The Rajasthan Civil Services (Special Selection and Special Conditions of Service of District Adult Education Officers,
Project Officers, Assistant Project Officers and Supervisors in the Adult Education Programme) Rules, 1980
Published vide Notification No. F. 5 (7) DOP/A-2/78 dated 25-5-1980 published in Rajasthan Gazette Part 4(C)(1) dated
24-7-1980 page 99
In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution of India, the Governor of Rajasthan
hereby makes the following rules laying down the procedure for special selection and special conditions of service of
officers for appointment as District Adult Education Officers, Project Officers, Assistant Project Officers and Supervisors
in connection with the Adult Education Programme in Rajasthan, namely:-
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called The Rajasthan Civil Services (Special Selection and Special Conditions of Service of District
Adult Education Officers, Project Officers, Assistant Project Officers and Supervisors in the Adult Education Programme)
Rules, 1980.
(2)
They shall come into force from the date of publication in the Rajasthan Rajpatra.
2.
Scope and Application.
- These rules shall apply to the appointment of District Adult Education Officers, Project Officers, Assistant Project
Officers and Supervisors sanctioned in connection with special schemes of Adult Education Programme of the
Government of Rajasthan.
3.
Definitions.
- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires:-
(a)
"Appointing Authority" means the Government of Rajasthan and includes such other officers or Authority who may be
specially empowered by the Government to exercise the powers and functions of the Appointing Authority;
(b)
"Committee" means Selection Committee referred to in rule 8;
(c)
"Director" means the Director of Adult Education, Rajasthan;
(d)
"Government" and "State" means respectively, the Government of Rajasthan and the State of Rajasthan;
(e)
"Pay Scale" means pay scale prescribed by the Government of Rajasthan from time to time;
(f)
"Schedule" means the Schedule appended to these rules.
4.
Interpretation.
- Unless the context otherwise requires the Rajasthan General Clauses Act, 1955 (Rajasthan Act No. VIII of 1955) shall
apply for the interpretation of these rules as it applies for the interpretation of a Rajasthan Act.
5.
Composition, Nature and Strength of Posts.
- There shall be the following categories of posts to be held on tenure basis as specified in the Schedule viz;-
1. District Adult Education Officers;
2. Project Officers;
3. Assistant Project Officers; and
4. Supervisors.
The strength of the posts of each category shall be such as has already been or as may hereafter be sanctioned by
Government:
Provided that the Government may leave unfilled or held in abeyance or abolish any post, without thereby entitling any
Page 2/7
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Rajasthan Civil Services (Special Selection and Special Conditions of Service of Distr...
person to any compensation.
6.
Tenure.
(1)
The posts of District Adult Education Officers, Project Officers, Assistant Project Officers and Supervisors shall be held
by an officer or official for a tenure ordinarily not exceeding two years in the first instance which may be further extended
by the Appointing Authority from time to time but not exceeding by six years in all.
(2)
Appointments made to the posts of District Adult Education Officers, Project Officers, Assistant Project Officers and
Supervisors from amongst the persons, covered under sub-rule (1) of Rule 7 shall be on deputation from the parent
departments for a period of two years which shall be further extended till the period indicated under sub-rule (1) above
by the Appointing Authority, from time to time, and the officers or official concerned shall have lien on their respective
parent cadres and on reversion from such deputation they shall not have any right to protection of pay or scale or status
held by them as District Adult Education Officers or Project Officers or Assistant Project Officers or Supervisors, unless
otherwise provided in these rules.
7.
Source of Selection.
(1)
Selection for appointment to the posts of District Adult Education Officers or Project Officers or Assistant Project Officers
or Supervisors after the commencement of these rules shall be made on the recommendations of the Committee from
amongst officers or officials mentioned in Column 3 of Schedule I who hold a lien on a post either under the Government
or the Government of India or Indian Universities and are holding posts mentioned in Column 3 of the Schedule I.
(2)
Selection for appointment to the posts of Project Officers or Assistant Project Officers or Supervisors, after
commencement of these rules may also be made on the recommendations of the Committee from the open market from
amongst the persons who hold the qualifications mentioned in Column 4 of Schedule I and are not more than of 45
years of age on the first day of January next following the last date fixed for receipt of applications.
8.
Selection Committee.
(1)
Selection to the posts of District Adult Education Officers and Project Officers shall be made by a Committee consisting
of the following:
1.
Secretary to Government, Education Department
Chairman;
2.
Special Secretary to the Government Department of Personnel &
Administrative Reforms
Member.
3.
Nominee of the Principle Secretary and Development
Commissioner not below the rank of Deputy Secretary to Government
Member.
4.
Director of Primary and Secondary Education
Member.
5.
One expert in the field of Adult Education nominated by the
Secretary to Government, Education Deptt.
Member.
6.
Page 3/7
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Rajasthan Civil Services (Special Selection and Special Conditions of Service of Distr...
Director of Adult Education, Rajasthan
Member-Secretary.
(2)
Selection to the posts of Assistant Project Officers and Supervisors shall be made by a Committee consisting of the
following:
1.
Collector of the District
Chairman.
2.
Director of Adult Education
Member.
3.
District Adult Education Officer/ District Education Officer
Member-Secretary.
9.
Criteria for selection.
- Selection shall be made by the Committee after an interview out of the eligible candidates having regard to :-
(a)
Experience in connection with Adult Education,
(b)
Personality and character,
(c)
Tact-intelligence and energy,
(d)
Integrity; and
(e)
Previous record of service.
Preference may be given to suitable women candidates for District Level Appointments.
10.
Determination of vacancies.
- The Appointing Authority shall determine each year the number of vacancies anticipated to be filled in each category
during the next 12 months or as and when such contingency arises.
11.
Procedure for selection.
(1)
As soon as it is decided that selection is to be made to fill a certain number of vacant posts of District Adult Education
Officers, Project Officers, Assistant Project Officers and Supervisors from amongst the officers mentioned in Column 3
of Schedule I and in Rule 7, the Director of Adult Education shall advertise the vacancies to be filled in; inviting
applications from all eligible persons who are eligible for selection as District Adult Education Officer, Project Officer,
Assistant Project Officer and Supervisor under the provisions of these rules.
(2)
The Director shall prepare a list of all the eligible candidates and shall place the same before the Committee referred to
in Rule 8 which shall select a number of candidates equal to the number of vacancies likely to be filled in after
interviewing such number of candidates as it deems fit.
In case the number of applicants for any category of posts is more than five times, the Committee shall evolve a suitable
criteria for preliminary screening of such applications and then the Member-Secretary of the Committee shall prepare a
list of suitable candidates equal to two times of the advertised vacancies to be interviewed by the Selection Committee:
Provided that the Committee may, if suitable persons are available, keep on reserve list more candidates whose number
shall not exceed 50% of the vacancies determined. The names of such candidates may be recommended if such,
vacancies actually occur within six months from the date of selection.
12.
Page 4/7
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Rajasthan Civil Services (Special Selection and Special Conditions of Service of Distr...
Appointment.
- Appointment to the posts of District Adult Education Officers or Project Officers or Assistant Project Officers or
Supervisors shall be made from amongst the persons included in the list prepared under sub-rule (2) of Rule 11 by the
Appointing Authority in the order of merit in the category of posts concerned:
Provided that the appointment of persons, referred to in sub-rule (2) of Rule 7 and included in the list prepared under
sub-rule (2) of Rule 11, shall be made by the Appointing Authority after such enquiry as may be considered necessary
that such candidates are suitable in all other respects for appointment to the posts concerned on contract basis.
13.
Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules, the post of Director/Deputy Director/Assistant Directors in the Adult
Education Programme may be filled in by transfer by the Appointing Authority from amongst the officers who hold an
equivalent or one stage lower post in the Rajasthan Education Service:
Provided that their tenure of appointment shall not exceed the terms specified in Rule 6.
14.
The Scale of pay and initial pay admissible to District Adult Education Officers, Project Officers, Assistant Project
Officers and Supervisors and other conditions relating to increase in pay on promotion in the parent cadre and
retirement benefits shall be as laid down in Schedule II and shall be such as may be sanctioned by the Government with
the concurrence of the Finance Department from time to time.
15.
The conditions of deputation of officers other than State Service Officers shall be such as may be agreed to by the
Government.
16.
Except as provided in these rules other service conditions of the District Adult Education Officers, Project Officers,
Assistant Project Officers and Supervisors shall be regulated by other rules applicable to Officers of the State
Government made by the appropriate authority under the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution of India and for the
time being in force.
17.
Removal of doubts.
- If any doubt arises relating to the application, interpretation and scope of these rules it shall be referred to Government
in the Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms whose decision thereon shall be final.
I
S. No.
Post
Name of service or posts, members of which are
eligible for appointment alongwith the Pay Scales.
Qualifications for recruitment on contract basis
from open market
Minimum experience on the posts mentioned in
Column 3
Remarks.
1
2
3
4
5
6
1.
District Adult Education Officers.
Members of the Rajasthan Education Service
working in the Pay Scale No. 19,21,22.
....
5 years
Page 5/7
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Rajasthan Civil Services (Special Selection and Special Conditions of Service of Distr...
5 year's experience will be counted on any one or more of
posts in Pay Scale No. 19. 21. 22.
2.
Project Officers.
Members of the Rajasthan Education Service
working in the Pay Scale No. 15 to 19.
Graduate or Degree holder in Adult Education
and 3 years' experience in the field of Adult Education of
dominant developmental activities related to public life or
rural area
5 years
....
OR
Members of other State Service working in the
Pay Scale No. 15 to 19 and possessing 3 years experience in
dominant Development activities of the area in a Government
Department.
The experience must have relevance to Adult
Education.
3.
Assistant Project Officers.
Post Graduate Teachers working in the Education
Department with three years experience in the field of Adult
Education.
Post Graduate with three years experience in
the field of Adult Education or other dominant development
activities related to rural area.
3 years.
OR
Post Graduate in other Government Department
having three years' experience in the field of Adult Education
or in some dominant develops mental activities related to rural
area.
4.
Supervisors.
Graduate Teachers working in the Education
Department with two years experience in the field of Adult
Education.
Graduate with two years experience in the field
of Adult Education or other dominant developmental activities
related to rural area.
2 years
....
OR
Graduate in other Government Departments having
two years experience in the field of Adult Education or in some
other dominant developmental activities related to rural area.
However, experience gained by working in the ministerial
services in the department will not be considered relevant for
this purpose.
Note.- Dominant Developmental activity shall include field duties performed in Animal Husbandry, Agriculture, Irrigation,
Page 6/7
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Rajasthan Civil Services (Special Selection and Special Conditions of Service of Distr...
Dairy Development, Sheep and Wool, Co-operative, Rural and Cottage Industries Department.
II
(See Rule 14)
(Conditions of Pay, Promotion and other conditions of the services).
Scale of Pay. - (i) On appointment to the posts of District Adult Education Officer, Project officer, Assistant Project
Officer and Supervisor, the pay of the officer shall be fixed in the scale of Rs. 1150-1650; Rs. 750-1350; Rs. 550-1010;
and Rs. 450-750 respectively at the stage equal to the pay notionally arrived at by increasing the actual pay drawn by
him in the existing post (in substantive or officiating capacity) by Rs. 100/- Rs. 75/- and Rs. 50/- and Rs. 50/- in cases of
District Adult Education Officer, Project Officer, Assistant Project Officer and Supervisor respectively, but such increase
shall in no case exceed the maximum of the grade. In case there is no such equal stage then on the next higher stage.
The next increment shall accrue after completion of full incremental period counting under rule 31 of the Rajasthan
Service Rules, 1951.
Exception. - The officiating pay for the purpose of this rule shall mean pay drawn in officiating capacity in the existing
post after regular recruitment and shall not include pay drawn on ad hoc or urgent temporary basis or on account of
leave vacancy or purely as a temporary basis.
(ii)
Persons recruited from open market shall be fixed at the minimum of the scale of that post and shall not be entitled to
any special pay.
Promotion in the parent cadre. - The officer concerned shall be eligible to proforma promotion (officiating or substantive)
in the parent cadre whenever an occasion arises and his pay in the parent cadre shall be arrived at after taking into
consideration the period during which he would have held the promotion post but for his appointment as District Adult
Education Officer, Project Officer, Assistant Project Officer or Supervisor provided that if he is promoted as such in the
pay scale similar or higher than the pay scale of the District Adult Education Officer, Project Officer, Assistant Project
Officer and Supervisor, as the case may be, the increments drawn by him as such would be protected and rule 26 (2) of
the Rajasthan Service Rules, 1951 shall apply in such cases also for fixation of pay.
Pension, Provident Funds etc. - (i) If the person concerned retires while holding the post of District Adult Education
Officer, Project Officer, Assistant Project Officer or Supervisor his emoluments for the purpose of calculating pension,
gratuity under rule 250 (c) of the Rajasthan Service Rules, 1951 shall be taken at what he would have been entitled to,
had he not been appointed as District Adult Education Officer, Project Officer, Assistant Project Officer or Supervisor.
(ii)
If a person is member of Jodhpur Contributory Provident Fund he shall continue to subscribe to the fund on the basis of
pay which he would have drawn had he not been appointed as District Adult Education Officer, or Project Officer, or
Assistant Project Officer or Supervisor. No subscription or Government contribution to the Contributory Provident Fund
shall be made on the basis of pay drawn as Assistant Project Officer or Supervisor.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 7/7