
----- PAGE 1 -----
The University of Rajasthan (Amendment) Act, 1981
The University of Rajasthan (Amendment) Act, 1981
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/124905859/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
24
]
State of Rajasthan - Act
The University of Rajasthan (Amendment) Act, 1981
RAJASTHAN
India
The University of Rajasthan (Amendment) Act, 1981
Act 11 of 1981
Published on 5 October 1981
Commenced on 5 October 1981
[This is the version of this document from 5 October 1981.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The University of Rajasthan (Amendment) Act, 1981
Act
No. 11 of 1981
Statement of Objects and Reasons. - There have been persisting reports about the deteriorating affairs in the
Administrative and academic fields of the University of Rajasthan.
There has also been criticism in the Rajasthan Legislative Assembly regarding the functioning of this University.
Indiscipline was prevailing in the three essential wings of the University i.e. students, teachers and other employees.
With a view to ensuring effective administrative control of and generating proper academic atmosphere in the University,
it was considered expedient to amend the University of Rajasthan Act, 1946 to dissolve the existing Syndicate and to
re-constitute it so as to make it a compact and business like body. The Governor, therefore, promulgated the University
of Rajasthan (Amendment) Ordinance, 1981 (Ordinance No. 3 of 1981) for this purpose.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The University of Rajasthan (Amendment) Act, 1981
This Bill seeks to replace the said Ordinance.
Published in Rajasthan Gazette Extraordinary, part III-A, dated 16-9-1981, page 57.
[Received the assent of Shri Kalyan Dutta Sharma discharging the function of the Governor of Rajasthan on the 3rd day
of October, 1981.]
[Notification No. F. 2 (19) Vidhi/81, dated 5-10-1981, Published in Rajasthan Gazette, Extraordinary, Part IV-A, dated
5-10-1981 page 61.]
An Act further to amend the University of Rajasthan Act, 1946.
Be it enacted by the Rajasthan State Legislature in the Thirty-second Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
This Act may be called the University of Rajasthan (Amendment) Act, 1981.
(2)
It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 19th day of May, 1981.
2.
Substitution of Section 21, University of Rajasthan Act, 1946.
- For Section 21 of the University of Rajasthan Act, 1946, hereinafter referred to as the principal Act, the following
section shall be substituted, namely:-
"21. Syndicate. - (1) The Syndicate shall be the executive body of the University and shall consist of the following
persons, namely:-
(i)
Vice-Chancellor;
(ii)
Pro-Vice-Chancellor;
(iii)
two persons nominated by the Vice-Chancellor; other than Deans;
(v)
one educationists nominated by the Chancellor;
(vi)
two Principals to be nominated by the State Government;
(vii)
Director, College Education, Rajasthan;
(viii)
two persons to be nominated by the State Government;
(ix)
two teachers, who have put in not less than seven years teaching experience in the institutions of higher education in
Rajasthan on 1st January immediately preceding the year in which elections are held, other than University Professors,
Deans, Principals of affiliated/constituent colleges to be elected by the teachers separately from amongst themselves as
below:
(a)
one teacher to be elected from amongst themselves by the teachers of the University teaching departments and
constituent colleges;
(b)
one teacher to be elected from amongst themselves by the teachers of the affiliated colleges;
(x)
two members of the State Legislature to be nominated by the State Government;
(xi)
(a)
one person elected by the senate from amongst the students of the University teaching departments and constituent
colleges who are elected as 'other member' of the senate under clause (xxviii) of sub-division III sub-section (1) of
Section 18 and the ex-officio member of the senate under clause (xii-A) of sub-division I of sub-section (1) of the said
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The University of Rajasthan (Amendment) Act, 1981
Section;
(b)
one person elected by the senate from amongst the students of, all affiliated colleges who are elected as 'other
members' of the senate under clause (xxviii) of sub-division III of sub-section (1) of Section 18.
Explanation. - The student members elected under clause (xi) shall not be associated with the-
(a)
appointment of examiners;
(b)
finance;
(c)
selection of the employees of the University;
(2)
The members of the Syndicate other than the Vice-Chancellor, Pro-Vice-Chancellor and Director, College Education
shall hold office for a period of three years from the date of their nomination or election, as the case may be".
3.
Dissolution of the existing Syndicate.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in the principal Act, the Syndicate functioning thereunder immediately before the
commencement of this Act shall, upon such commencement, stand dissolved and its members shall ceases to hold
office.
(2)
Notwithstanding such dissolution, all things done, actions taken, appointments and orders made by the Syndicate
dissolved under sub-section (1) shall, to all intents and for all purpose, continue to be in force until they are rescinded or
modified by the Syndicate re-constituted by section 2 of this Act.
4.
Repeal and Savings.
(1)
The University of Rajasthan (Amendment) Ordinance, 1981 (Ordinance No. 3 of 1981) is hereby repealed.
(2)
Notwithstanding such repeal anything done or any action taken under the Principal Act as amended by the said
Ordinance shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the principal Act as amended by this Act.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3