
----- PAGE 1 -----
The (Rajasthan) Garden Ground Rules, 1961
The (Rajasthan) Garden Ground Rules, 1961
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/30009016/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Rajasthan - Act
The (Rajasthan) Garden Ground Rules, 1961
RAJASTHAN
India
The (Rajasthan) Garden Ground Rules, 1961
Rule THE-RAJASTHAN-GARDEN-GROUND-RULES-1961 of 1961
Published on 23 October 1981
Commenced on 23 October 1981
[This is the version of this document from 23 October 1981.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The (Rajasthan) Garden Ground Rules, 1961
Published vide Notification No. F.4(2) PW/78, dated 23-10-1981, published in Rajasthan Gazette, Part 4-C, dated
17-12-81, page 376-377
G.S.R. 126. - The Governor of Rajasthan has been pleased to make the following rules for the use of Garden Ground in
the Ram Niwas Garden by Jaipur Cricket Club and Football Club, Jaipur.
1.
Short title and commencement.
- These rules will be called the Garden Ground Rules, 1981. They shall come into force from the date of their publication
in the Rajasthan Gazette.
2.
Definition.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The (Rajasthan) Garden Ground Rules, 1961
- In these rules unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context:
(i)
"Ground" means garden ground in Ram Niwas Garden, Jaipur.
(ii)
"Superintendent Gardens" means Superintendent Garden, Jaipur.
(iii)
"Club" means Union Foot Ball Club. Jaipur, Jaipur Cricket Club, Jaipur.
3.
The Club shall use the ground with the prior permission of the Garden Superintendent on terms and conditions
mentioned in the foregoing rules.
4.
The Ground will remain open whole day for J.C.C. except from 5.30 P.M. to 7.30 P.M. in Summer and 4.30 P.M. to 6.30
P.M. in the winter, during which period it will be utilised by the Foot Ball Club.
5.
The Foot Ball Club and J.C.C. are required to deposit a rental charges of Rs. 50/- and Rs. 100- respectively every month
in advance. In case any of the above mentioned club fails to remit the monthly rental charges in time, it shall be
presumed by the Supdt. Garden, without giving any notice to the defaulter club, that the ground is not required by them.
6.
Supdt. Garden shall be the incharge of the ground. He shall be responsible for the maintenance of the ground.
7.
When the ground is required for exhibition etc. by any commercial organisation, a rent of Rs. 250/-per day shall be
charged and a sum of Rs. 1000/- shall be charged in advance towards the security money. Such security money may be
adjusted to cover the charges in case of damages etc. that may be caused to the ground and its premises. During this
period ground will remain close for others. This reservation shall be done by the Supdt. Garden, Jaipur:
Provided that if such exhibition is organised for any philanthropic purposes than a concession up to 50% of rental
charges shall be allowed if applied for.
8.
Parties in whose favour reservation is granted shall be allowed to install their own ornamental lights and shall be allowed
to light them from their own temporary connection/s to be taken at their own expenses from the R.S.E.B. authorities.
9.
The club members and visitors during their stay are not allowed to use foul or offensive language or behave or action in
manner contrary to public decency or likely to cause breach of peace. Plucking of flowers or fruits from any plant or tree
or damaging thereof is strictly forbidden. Defaulter shall render himself liable to fine at the discretion of the
Superintendent Garden.
10.
The incharge of the ground has been authorised to restrain the visitors from holding any act referred to above and
remove the offenders from the ground without returning them their entrance and other fees.
11.
The club/visitors shall have to pay for the cost of damages and breakages etc., they should enter all damages and
breakages as have occurred during the period of their visit in the "Visitor Book" kept at the ground and make payment of
the costs as assessed by the Supdt. Garden.
12.
The Club members and other, shall be governed by the provisions of the Public Park Act, 1956 and Public Parks Rules.
1969. In case of violation of any of the rules, the Superintendent Gardens is authorised to impose a maximum penalty of
Rs. 50/- on the defaulter at their discretion.
13.
Procedure for the receipt of money etc. shall be followed as laid down in the G.F. & A.R.
14.
The club shall use the ground for the practice of Foot Ball and Cricket Games and not for tournament etc.
15.
The nature and character of the relationship between the Club/other parties and Government shall be as a party and the
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The (Rajasthan) Garden Ground Rules, 1961
owner of the ground respectively.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3