
----- PAGE 1 -----
Rules for the Grant of Financial Assistance to the Persons Contracting Inter-caste Marriag...
Rules for the Grant of Financial Assistance to the Persons
Contracting Inter-caste Marriages Where Either of the Parties Belong
to a Scheduled Caste
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/88355141/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Rajasthan - Act
Rules for the Grant of Financial Assistance to the Persons Contracting Inter-caste Marriages Where Either of the Parties
Belong to a Scheduled Caste
RAJASTHAN
India
Rules for the Grant of Financial Assistance to the Persons Contracting Inter-caste Marriages Where Either of the Parties
Belong to a Scheduled Caste
Rule
RULES-FOR-THE-GRANT-OF-FINANCIAL-ASSISTANCE-TO-THE-PERSONS-CONTRACTING-INTER-CASTE-MARR
IAGES-WHERE-EITHER-OF-THE-PARTIES-BELONG-TO-A-SCHEDULED-CASTE of 1982
Published on 31 March 1982
Commenced on 31 March 1982
[This is the version of this document from 31 March 1982.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Rules for the Grant of Financial Assistance to the Persons Contracting Inter-caste Marriages Where Either of the Parties
Belong to a Scheduled Caste
Published vide Notification No. F. 11/R & P/Inter-Caste Marriage/SWD/61/81-82/96381, dated 31-3-1982
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
Rules for the Grant of Financial Assistance to the Persons Contracting Inter-caste Marriag...
The Governor is pleased to issue the following Rules for grant of financial assistance to the persons contracting
Inter-caste marriages where either of the parties belong to a Scheduled Castes:
1.
A Financial assistance as monetary grant no exceeding to Rs. 5,000/-(Rupees Five Thousand only) shall be available to
such persons who have contracted an Inter-Caste Marriage where one of the parties belong to a Scheduled Caste, while
the other does not belong to a Schedule Caste.
2.
The Director of Social Welfare, Government of Rajasthan will decide the cases of persons applying for such assistance
depending upon the merit of each case.
3.
Persons seeking such assistance should apply to the District Social Welfare of the Collector of the District in the
prescribed form (Annexure I). The application shall be signed by both the wife and husband; and should be
accompanied with following documents:-
(i)
A certified copy of the marriage registration Certificate.
(ii)
A certificate from any Executive or Judicial Magistrate showing the caste to which the wife and husband belong;
(iii)
A certificate from the M.L.A., M.P., Vikas Adhikari, or the District Social Welfare Officer, in the prescribed form
(Annexure II) to the effect that both, the husband and wife, are living together for not less than six months.
4.
The bonafides of the applicants will be enquired into by the Vikas Adhikari or the District Probation & Social Welfare
Officer concerned. The application and the Enquiry Report alongwith the remarks of the Collector of the District shall be
forwarded to the Director of Social Welfare, Rajasthan, Jaipur for consideration.
5.
The assistance under this scheme shall be given only to a lawfully married couple whose marriage has been registered
by a Registration Officer under the Hindu Marriage Registration Act or the Special Marriage Act.
6.
The applicants should have lived as Husband and wife for not less than six months.
7.
Both the parties to the marriage should be bonafide residents of Rajasthan but where one of the parties is not a bonafide
resident, the couple should have stayed in Rajasthan for atleast one year after marriage.
8.
The income of the recipient should be less than Rs. 753/- per month.
9.
The incentive money shall be credited into a fixed deposit account in the joint names of both the parties. The fixed
deposit account would be opened for a minimum period of two years in any national Bank. If the couple separate before
the expiry of the fixed deposit period, the principle along with interest shall be recovered by the Government from the
Bank and it shall not be paid to the couple.
10.
The Grant under this scheme will be sanctioned only once and a second grant to either of the parties will not be
sanctioned under any circumstances.
11.
The assistance would be disbursed by the Director, Social Welfare, either directly or through the Collector concerned.
12.
These rules would come into effect immediately and would apply to marriage performed after 1-1-1982.
13.
This issues with the concurrence of Finance Department vide their I.D. No. 217 dated 25-1-1982.
Annexure I
Application For The Grant Of Financial Assistance From The Social Welfare Department To The Persons Contacting
Inter-Caste Marriages Where Either Of The Parties Belong To A Scheduled Caste:
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
Rules for the Grant of Financial Assistance to the Persons Contracting Inter-caste Marriag...
To
The Vikas Adhikari/District Probation & Social Welfare Officer/Collector............... ....................................
We ...................... S/o (with address of parents/guardian) and ................  D/o (with address of parent/guardian)
.......................... hereby apply for grant of financial assistance and furnish the particulars below:-
1. Name and present full address of:
(a)
Husband
(b)
Wife
2. Full address before marriage:-
(a)
Husband
(b)
Wife
3. Occupation and Monthly income before marriage
(a)
Husband
(b)
Wife
4. Occupation and Monthly income at the time of application
(a)
Husband
(b)
Wife
5. Particulars of marriage:
(a)
Age at marriage: (i) Husband (ii) Wife.
(b)
Whether contracted by a registered document, if so, No. & Date, and name of Registration Office.
(c)
Evidence, if any, produced to prove validity of the marriage:
6. Whether the couple have stayed separately at any time after the marriage:
(a)
If so, the period of separation
(b)
Reasons for separation
7. Monthly
8. We are both bonafide resident of Rajasthan
Or
One of us (specify name...............................) as a bonafide resident of Rajasthan and we have stayed in Rajasthan for
one year after our marriage we, do, hereby solemnly affirm that the particulars furnished above are true and correct.
Station
Signature........................
Date:
(Husband)
(Wife)
Certificate of The District Social Welfare Office/vikas Adhikari
I certify that on enquiry, the particulars as above have been found true.
District Social Welfare Officer/Vikas Adhikari.
Recommended For Financial Assistance As Per Rules
Collector
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
Rules for the Grant of Financial Assistance to the Persons Contracting Inter-caste Marriag...
The following documents should be furnished alongwith the application:-
(i)
A certified copy of the marriage Registration Certificate.
(ii)
A certificate from any Executive or Judicial Magistrate showing the caste to which the wife and husband belong.
(iii)
A certificate from Vikas Adhikari, or the District Social Welfare Officer, as in Appendix II to the effect that both the
Husband and Wife are living together for not less than one year.
Annexure II
Vide Rule 3(iii)
Certificate
Certified that Shri .................... and Smt................ who are seeking assistance under the Scheme "Grant of Financial
Assistance to the persons contracting inter-Caste Marriage where either of the parties belong to a Scheduled
Caste/Scheduled Tribe" are living together as Husband and Wife for not less than six month. They are both bonafide
residents of Rajasthan OR one of them is a bonafide resident of Rajasthan but the couple has been living in Rajasthan
for one year after their marriage.
Their full address is as follows:-
Signature Name: Address V.A./D.S.W.D./M.P./M.L.A.)
Station:
Date:
*Strike out whichever is not applicable.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4