
----- PAGE 1 -----
Rules of Admission to Ayurvedic Colleges in Rajasthan, 1986
Rules of Admission to Ayurvedic Colleges in Rajasthan, 1986
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/61795434/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Rajasthan - Act
Rules of Admission to Ayurvedic Colleges in Rajasthan, 1986
RAJASTHAN
India
Rules of Admission to Ayurvedic Colleges in Rajasthan, 1986
Rule RULES-OF-ADMISSION-TO-AYURVEDIC-COLLEGES-IN-RAJASTHAN-1986 of 1986
Published on 27 March 1986
Commenced on 27 March 1986
[This is the version of this document from 27 March 1986.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Rules of Admission to Ayurvedic Colleges in Rajasthan, 1986
Published vide Notification No.F.27(5) Ayur/83, dated 27-3-1986, Published in Rajasthan Gazette Extraordinary
Ordinary part 4-C (1), dated 27-3-1986, Page 517-528
The Government of Rajasthan issues the following instructions for the admission of candidates to various Ayurvedic
Colleges in Rajasthan.
1.
Number of seats:
- The total number of admissions to four Ayurvedic Colleges in Rajasthan will not be more than 220 per year.
2.
Reservations.
(a)
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
Rules of Admission to Ayurvedic Colleges in Rajasthan, 1986
2 seats are reserved at Madan Mohan Malviya Government Ayurvedic College, Udaipur for students nominated by
Government of India.
(b)
8% seats are reserved for natural born candidates belonging to scheduled castes and 60% for natural born candidates
belonging to scheduled tribes as notified in the Presidential Order for the State of Rajasthan and who fulfill conditions as
laid down in rule 3 below. These reservations in each category will also include the natural born candidates belonging to
the scheduled castes/scheduled tribes who are admitted on merit for general seats.
A candidate must produce a certificate signed by an Officer not below the rank of District Magistrate/Additional District
Magistrate/S.D.M. in proof of his/her being a natural born member of scheduled castes/tribes as notified in the
Presidential Order for the State of Rajasthan and that he/she fulfills conditions as laid down in rule 3 below. The
reservation mentioned above can be interchanged, if sufficient number of candidates are not available to fill up the seats
reserved for either categories i.e. natural born Scheduled Caste/Tribes.
(c)
10% of the seats, excluding seats reserved in clause(a) above are reserved for girl candidates. If eligible and suitable
girl candidates from natural born scheduled castes/tribes are not available, these seats will be filled by the male
candidates of natural-born scheduled castes/tribes.
(d)
In case the reserved seats are hot filled in a particular category, the unfilled seats will be transferred to general seats.
3.
Eligibility:
- A candidate must fulfill the following conditions for admission to the Ayurvedic Colleges. However, for those, who are
covered under category (a), of rule 2 for them sub-rule (a) of this rule will not be applicable:
(a)
He/she has studied for last three years continuously as a regular candidate in a recognized institution in Rajasthan.
or
His/her natural father or natural mother has continuously resided in Rajasthan for a period of last 10 years, and he/she
has studied in last for 5 years in a recognized Educational Institution in Rajasthan.
or
He/she is a son/daughter of an serving or retired employee of-
(i)
Government of Rajasthan including Officer of All India Services born on the State Cadre of Rajasthan.
or
(ii)
Undertakings/Corporations/Improvement Trusts/Municipal Boards/Panchayat Samities/Co-operative Bodies, duly
constituted by the Government of Rajasthan.
or
(iii)
Statutory bodies and Corporations formed under the Indian Companies Act incorporated in Rajasthan.
or
(iv)
He/she is a son/daughter of an employee of any of the Universities in Rajasthan or Higher Secondary Board of
Education (Rajasthan).
Who has put in atleast three years service on the date of application of the year of admission in any of the above
bodies/service.
or
(v)
He/she is a son/daughter of an employee of Indian Defence/Central Government services/public sector undertakings or
Corporations of Government of India employees or Rajasthan origin irrespective of his place of posting, provided a
certificate is submitted by the employee from the employer to this effect stating that State of origin and the home town as
given by him at the time of his entry to the Service:
Provided that for the purpose, of this rule and any other rule/appendix to these rules, an employee who was born in
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
Rules of Admission to Ayurvedic Colleges in Rajasthan, 1986
Rajasthan shall be deemed to be of Rajasthan origin.
(b)
A candidate must have passed the Uttar Madhyama Examination of Sampurnand Sanskrit Vishwavidhyalaya Varanasi
or Higher Secondary (with Sanskrit) Upadhyaya Examination of the Board of Secondary Education, Rajasthan, Ajmer or
the Pre-University Examination (with Sanskrit) of this University or an Examination recognized by the University as
equivalent there to shall be eligible for admission to Pre-Ayurveda course.
(c)
He/She shall have to obtain at least 36% marks in each paper at the Pre-Ayurveda Test on the result of which above
admission to the Pre-Ayurveda course will be regulated. Candidates who have appeared at any of the aforesaid
examinations, but whose result have not been declared before the commencement of the Pre-Ayurveda Test, may be
given provisional admission to appear at the Pre-Ayurveda Test:
Provided further that the candidates for admission to the Pre-Ayurveda course shall have completed the age of 16 years
on or before 1st October, 1986.
4.
Pre-Ayurveda Test.
(a)
All candidates except those belonging to category (a) of rule-2 will have to appear at the Pre-Ayurveda Test to be held
by Director, National Institute of Ayurveda, Jaipur in the subjects of Hindi. English, Sanskrit and General Sciences in the
manner to be decided by it. The candidate may obtain guide lines for the Pre-Ayurveda Test Examination.
Application form for appearing at the examination and also application form for admission to the Ayurvedic Colleges
from the Director, National Institute of Ayurveda, Jaipur on payment of Rs. 25/ - in cash only. Forms and guide lines can
also be had by registered post on payment of Rs.30/- by Money Order only.
Application forms for P.A.T. Examination and for admission to the Ayurvedic Colleges duly filled in by the candidate
along with a fee of Rs.90/- should be sent directly to the Director, National Institute of Ayurveda, Jaipur. This fee will also
cover the fee for the marks-sheet. The eligible candidates will be admitted in the order of merit.
(b)
No application for admission will be considered unless it is accompanied by the following:
(i)
Attested true copy of the marks-sheet of the qualifying examination of the concerned University/Board.
(ii)
Attested true copy of the High School/Higher Secondary certificate/Upadhyaya Certificate.
(iii)
Certificates/Undertakings in the prescribed forms appended to these rules:
(a)
Certificate of eligibility for admission.
(b)
Certificate from the Principal of College/Head of the Institution last attended.
(c)
Parent/Guardian's certificate.
(d)
Certificate regarding Scheduled Caste/Tribe, if applicable.
(e)
Certificate regarding migration, if applicable.
Note:- 1. All the original certificates and the marks-sheet must be brought at the time of interview.
2. Any application received after the prescribed date or incomplete in any respect shall be rejected, without giving any
notice to the candidate.
(c)
(1) The eligible candidates will be admitted in the order of merit for the general as well as reserved seats (excepting the
seats belonging to category (a) judged on the basis of marks secured at the Pre-Ayurveda Test.
(2)
Candidates securing equal number of marks in the Pre-Ayurveda Test, will be admitted in the following order of
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
Rules of Admission to Ayurvedic Colleges in Rajasthan, 1986
preference:
(i)
One who has secured more marks in Sanskrit subjects of Upadhyaya Higher Secondary or its equivalent examination.
(ii)
Among candidates securing equal number of marks in the qualifying examination as also, those who have passed in
lesser number of attempts will be given preference. If there is further tie, candidates securing more marks in
Upad-hyaya/Higher Secondary examination or its equivalent examination will be given preference.
(d)
Interview by Admission Board.- Candidates eligible for admission shall be called for interview by the Director, National
Institute of Ayurveda, Jaipur to appear before the Admission Board constituted by the State Government, Interviews will
be taken in about 10-15 days after the Pre-Ayurveda Test result is declared. The list of candidates called for interview
will be put on the Notice Board of the National Institute of Ayurveda, Jaipur three days before the date of interview. The
candidates found un-suitable by the Admission Board will be rejected.
(e)
Allotment of place of Study.- The Admission Board after duly considering the place of residence and preference given by
the candidate in his/her application, shall allot selected candidates to the various Ayurvedic Colleges at its discretion.
(f)
Medical Examination.- A provisional list of candidates selected by the Admission Board will be put on the Notice Board
of the National Institute of Ayurveda, Jaipur. No intimation will be given to the candidates individually. All candidates
provisionally selected will be examined by the Medical Board appointed by the Director, National Institute of Ayurveda or
Principal of the respective Ayurvedic College on the basis of criteria evolved for Medical Examination by the Principal
regarding their general and physical fitness for Medical Studies. The candidates found un-suitable will be rejected. The
decision of the Board in this respect will be final.
5.
The Government reserves the right to admit or reject admission of any candidate without assigning any reason.
6.
Admission of the candidates who have passed qualifying examination from a University/Board of the State other than
Rajasthan will be provisional, till the Eligibility Certificate is issued by the University of Rajasthan.
7.
If for the reasons to be recorded in writing the Admission Board suspects that a particular candidate has obtained a
certificate by misrepresenting facts, the matter will be referred to the concerned D.M. on the receipt of the inquiry report,
the Admission Board would take the final decision regarding the admission of the candidate.
Note:- Any person other than the parents of the candidate can become guardian, only if the parents of the candidate are
not alive or have been declared insane.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4