
----- PAGE 1 -----
Rules for Grant of Advance to the Government Servants for Purchase of Solar Cookers, 1987
Rules for Grant of Advance to the Government Servants for Purchase
of Solar Cookers, 1987
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/99077725/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Rajasthan - Act
Rules for Grant of Advance to the Government Servants for Purchase of Solar Cookers, 1987
RAJASTHAN
India
Rules for Grant of Advance to the Government Servants for Purchase of Solar Cookers, 1987
Rule
RULES-FOR-GRANT-OF-ADVANCE-TO-THE-GOVERNMENT-SERVANTS-FOR-PURCHASE-OF-SOLAR-COOKERS-
1987 of 1987
Published on 1 January 1987
Commenced on 1 January 1987
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 1987.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Rules for Grant of Advance to the Government Servants for Purchase of Solar Cookers, 1987
G.S.R. 44. - The Governor is pleased to order for framing the following rules to regulate the grant of Advance to the
Government servants for purchase of Solar Cookers manufactured and sold by the Rajasthan State Agro Industries
Corporation Ltd. (A State Government undertaking) for their personal use, namely:-
1.
Admissibility and commencement.
(1)
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
Rules for Grant of Advance to the Government Servants for Purchase of Solar Cookers, 1987
The advance shall be admissible to all Government servants who have put in service of not less than two years,
(2)
These Rules shall come into force with effect from 1-1-1987.
2.
Amount of Advance.
- The amount of advance shall be equal to unsubsidized part of price of the solar cooker or Rs. 300/- whichever is less.
3.
Conditions of Grant of Advance.
(1)
The advance shall be admissible to a Government servant not more than three times in the entire service period. The
second/third advance shall be admissible only after lapse of a minimum period of five years since sanction of
first/second advance.
(2)
Advance to temporary Government servants shall be sanctioned only after obtaining surety from a permanent
Government servant or any other form of security of adequate value.
(3)
A Government servant desirous to avail the advance under these Rules shall make an application to the sanctioning
authority on plain paper. The application shall be accompanied by a proforma bill issued by the Rajasthan State
Agro-Industries Corporation Ltd., (including its branches).
(4)
The amount of advance sanctioned to the Government servant shall be paid to him in the form of a crossed (Account
Payee only) Demand Draft in favour of the Rajasthan State Agro-Industries Corporation Ltd.
(5)
Every Government servant who takes advance shall produce a certified copy of Cash Memo issued by the Rajasthan
State Agro Industries Corporation Ltd. within a period of two months from the date of receipt of the advance in token of
the proof that advance has been utilised.
(6)
In case Solar Cooker is not purchased within the period prescribed in sub-rule (5) of this rule, the entire amount of
advance together with penal interest @ 12% p.a. shall be recovered in one instalment from his next issue of pay. In
cases where it is not possible to recover the entire amount from the pay bill in one instalment, the balance amount shall
be recovered from the subsequent pay bill(s).
(7)
Simple interest @ 10% p.a. shall be charged on the amount of advance. The interest shall be calculated on the balance
outstanding on the last day of each month.
4.
Authority competent to sanction advance.
- Heads of Offices shall be competent to sanction advance to Government servants drawing salary from their offices.
They may sanction advance to themselves also under intimation to the head of Department under whom they are
serving.
5.
Mode of Recovery.
(1)
The amount of advance together with interest shall be recoverable in 6 monthly instalments.
(2)
The principal shall be recovered in first five instalments and the interest accrued in the sixth instalment.
(3)
The amount of advance shall be recovered through monthly pay bills. The first instalment shall commence with the first
issue of pay after the advance is drawn.
6.
Accounting procedure.
(1)
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
Rules for Grant of Advance to the Government Servants for Purchase of Solar Cookers, 1987
The Head of Office will draw the amount in form GA. 121 duly supported by the sanction accorded by him.
(2)
The payment of account of advance will be accounted for under the head:
766.
-Loans to Government servants (Translation)
(e)
Other advances(Translation)
(iv)
Advance for the purchase of solar cooker (Translation)
Note:-Expenditure incurred on this account during the financial year 1986-87 shall be chargeable to head
800.
-Contingency fund (Translation)
766.
-Loans to Government servants (Translation)
(e)
Other advances(Translation)
(iv)
Advance for the purchase of solar cooker (Translation)
(3)
The Head of Office will be responsible for effecting recoveries as and when the instalments fall due. He should maintain
a register in the form prescribed in Appendix I to watch the recoveries. Column 1 to 5 should be filled in as soon as the
bill is drawn for payment of advance for the purchase of solar cooker or the last pay certificate indicating some balances
of the advance is received from another office/Disbursing Officer. The recoveries as and when made from the pay bills
should be noted in column 6 to 9. In case the recoveries are made in cash and deposited into the treasury, a suitable
indication should be given in the remarks column to facilitate reconciliation. Similarly the reasons for the non-recovery in
any month should be indicated briefly in the remarks column e.g. 'pay not drawn', 'transferred to.....
(4)
In support of the deductions, the drawing officer should attach to the pay bill concerned the schedule of recovery in the
form GA. 87 which shall be prepared in three parts.
(5)
(a)
The recoveries appearing in the bills will be adjusted by the Treasury Officer by transfer credit in relaxation of the
provisions of Article 26 of Account Code Volume II. The Treasury Officer while passing Pay Bills for payment will take
the recoveries to the relevant receipt head in the treasury account and prepare a schedule showing officewise
recoveries in duplicate. The original covering schedule with the supporting schedules, from the Head of Office will be
sent by the Treasury Officer to the office of the Accountant General with the monthly Cash Account in support of the
credit given to the head of account and the duplicate will be retained by him as an office copy. The Treasury Officer will
also record a certificate on the covering schedule sent to the office of the Accountant General to the effect that the
amount shown therein tallies with the amount entered in the Treasury Accounts under the relevant head.
(b)
The recoveries appearing in the bill on account of interest on the advance shall be adjusted by the Treasury Officers by
transfer credit to the head "049 Interest Receipts (gha) Interest receipts of State/Union Territory Governments (cha)
Other Receipts-VII Loans to Government servants (iv) Advances paid for purchase of 'Solar Cooker'".
(6)
When a Government servant is transferred to another office, the amount of the advance paid, the treasury voucher
number and date of payment, the number of instalments recovered to date, and designation of the Drawing and
Disbursing Officer should be mentioned in the Last Pay Certificate. The later office will take the outstanding balance of
the advance in its own register and watch the recoveries. The former officer, while intimating the balance to the later
should send an intimation to the office of the Accountant General also.
(7)
Head of Offices shall produce the initial accounts of the Solar Cooker Advance for test check at the time of local audit by
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
Rules for Grant of Advance to the Government Servants for Purchase of Solar Cookers, 1987
the party of Accountant General, Rajasthan.
Appendix I
Register for watching the recovery of Advance given for purchase of Solar Cooker
Name of the
Government servant
Designation
Amount of
Advance sanctioned.
Reference to
sanction No. and Date
Bill No. &
Date of payment.
Name of month
in which recovery made
Pay bill No.
and date
Amount
recovered
Balance
Remarks
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
(8)
(9)
(10)
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4