
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Rajasthan Shops and Commercial Establishments (Employees Life Insurance) Rules, 1987
The Rajasthan Shops and Commercial Establishments (Employees
Life Insurance) Rules, 1987
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/16195546/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Rajasthan - Act
The Rajasthan Shops and Commercial Establishments (Employees Life Insurance) Rules, 1987
RAJASTHAN
India
The Rajasthan Shops and Commercial Establishments (Employees Life Insurance) Rules, 1987
Rule
THE-RAJASTHAN-SHOPS-AND-COMMERCIAL-ESTABLISHMENTS-EMPLOYEES-LIFE-INSURANCE-RULES-1987
of 1987
Published on 1 January 1987
Commenced on 1 January 1987
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 1987.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Rajasthan Shops and Commercial Establishments (Employees Life Insurance) Rules, 1987
Published vide Notification No. F. 1(2)(30) Shram/81-2, dated 1-1-1987, published in Rajasthan Gazette Extraordinary
part 4-C, dated 1-1-1987, page 147 (4)
G.S.R. 48. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 17 of the Rajasthan Shops and
Commercial Establishments (Employees Life Insurance) Ordinance, 1986 (Ordinance No. 13 of 1986), the State
Government hereby makes the following rules and also orders with reference to the proviso to sub-section (3) of the said
section, that previous publication of these rules is dispensed with, as the State Government considers that they should
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Rajasthan Shops and Commercial Establishments (Employees Life Insurance) Rules, 1987
be brought in to force at once, namely :-
1.
Short title and Commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Rajasthan Shops and Commercial Establishments (Employees Life Insurance) Rules,
1987.
(2)
They shall come into force with effect from January 1, 1987.
2.
Definitions.
(1)
In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires-
(a)
"Form" means a form appended to these rules;
(b)
"Government" means the Government of Rajasthan;
(c)
"Labour Commissioner" means an Officer appointed by the State Government as Labour Commissioner;
(d)
"Ordinance" means the Rajasthan Shops and Commercial Establishments (Employees Life Insurance) Ordinance, 1986
(Ordinance No. 13 of 1986);
(e)
"Scheme" means a Scheme framed under sub-section (1) of Section 3 of the Ordinance.
(2)
Words and expression used, but not defined in these rules shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in the
Ordinance.
3.
Prescribed Authority.
- The Joint Labour Commissioners, Deputy Labour Commissioners and Assist Labour Commissioners shall be the
prescribed authority for their respective areas of jurisdiction.
4.
Powers and Duties of Inspector.
- An Inspector may inspect the registers, records and documents as may appear to him to be necessary for the purpose
of satisfying himself that the provisions of the Ordinance, Rules and the Scheme or any orders issued from time to time,
or the Labour Commissioner, are duly observed, he may also satisfy himself,-
(i)
that the registers and other record prescribed under the Ordinance, Rules or the Scheme are properly maintained;
(ii)
that the returns and other information to be sent under the Rules or the Scheme are correct and are being sent in time,
(iii)
that the employer has paid the contribution payable under the Ordinance in respect of all qualified employees;
(iv)
that the deduction from wages in respect of contributions are made in accordance with the provisions of the ordinance;
(v)
that the employees who are shown as qualified employees are in fact so qualified and that no qualified employee is left
out of the purview of the Scheme;
(vi)
that all qualified employees have filed their nominations in accordance with the provisions of the Scheme;
(vii)
that benefits under the Scheme are paid to the persons nominated in accordance with the Scheme and to none else and
that claims for benefits are genuine;
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Rajasthan Shops and Commercial Establishments (Employees Life Insurance) Rules, 1987
(viii)
that the provisions of the Ordinance, Rules and the Scheme any order issued by Government or Labour Commissioner
are duly observed.
(2)
An Inspector shall also have the power to-
(i)
seize or take copies of registers or records as he may consider necessary in respect of an offence under the
ordinance/Rules, which he has reason to believe, has been committed by an employer;
(ii)
require an employer to produce at the premises of the establishment or at his office any register or record which he may
consider necessary for enforcing the provisions of the ordinance, Rules or the Scheme.
5.
Register and Records to be maintained by an employer.
(1)
Every employer of an establishment to which the ordinance applies shall maintain a register in the "Form" appended to
these rules.
(2)
The Visit book as prescribed under sub-rule (10) of Rules 22 of the Rajasthan Shops and Commercial Establishment
Rules, 1959, shall be treated as an Inspection Book for the purpose of these Rules and it shall be produced by the
employers and when so required by the Inspector for recording his remarks as he deems proper.
Form
[See sub-rule (1) of Rule 5]
Register of qualified employees
S. No.
Name of employees
S
Designation
Address
Date of birth
1
2
3
4
5
6
Whether date of birth is verified and if so from
what document
Date of joining the establishment
Date from which contributions are being paid
Whether the employee has made a nomination as per
the scheme. Give name and address of nominee
7
8
9
10
Date of death of employees (if applicable)
Date of claim for benefit
Date on which claim was checked by Inspector
Date on which claim was sent to Life Insurance
Corporation.
11
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Rajasthan Shops and Commercial Establishments (Employees Life Insurance) Rules, 1987
12
13
14
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4