
----- PAGE 1 -----
Chit Funds (Rajasthan) Rules, 1989
Chit Funds (Rajasthan) Rules, 1989
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/18106694/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Rajasthan - Act
Chit Funds (Rajasthan) Rules, 1989
RAJASTHAN
India
Chit Funds (Rajasthan) Rules, 1989
Rule CHIT-FUNDS-RAJASTHAN-RULES-1989 of 1989
Published on 29 July 1989
Commenced on 29 July 1989
[This is the version of this document from 29 July 1989.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Chit Funds (Rajasthan) Rules, 1989
G.S.R.12. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 80 of the Chit Funds Act, 1982 (Central Act 40 of 1982), the
Government of Rajasthan, in consultation with the Reserve Bank of India, hereby makes the following rules: -
Chapter I
Preliminary
1.
Short title.
- (i) These rules maybe called the Chit Funds (Rajasthan) Rules, 1989.
(ii)
They shall come into force from the 1st day of July, 1989.
2.
Page 1/39
----- PAGE 2 -----
Chit Funds (Rajasthan) Rules, 1989
Definitions.
- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires:
(a)
"Act" means the Chit Funds Act, 1982 (Central Act 40 of 1982);
(b)
"Appendix" means Appendix I, or, as the case may be Appendix II, to these rules;
(c)
"authorised agent" means a person duly authorised by a power of attorney executed and authenticated in the manner
specified in section 33 of the Indian Registration Act, 1908 (Central Act XVI of 1908) or a person authorised by a letter of
authorisation "Specified in Form XX", by the person concerned;
(d)
"Form" means a form in Appendix Ito these Rules;
(e)
"Section" means a section of the Act.
(f)
Words and expressions used in these rules but not defined there in shall have the same meanings respectively assigned
to them in the Act.
Chapter II
3.
Application for obtaining prior sanction for commencement or conduct of a chit.
- Every application for obtaining prior sanction of the State Government or the officer empowered by it in this behalf for
commencement or conduct of a chit shall be made by the foreman in Form I.
4.
Communication of the refusal to sanction commencement or conduct of a chit.
(a)
Where sanction for the commencement or conduct of a chit is refused. the reason for such refusal shall be recorded in
writing a copy thereof shall be communicated to the applicant.
(b)
Before refusal of such sanction, the State Government or the officer empowered in this behalf shall issue a notice to the
foreman calling upon him to show cause within a reasonable period to be stipulated in such notice as why sanction
should not be refused.
(c)
Where the grounds for the proposed refusal of such sanction is default in payment of fees or filing any statement or
record required to be paid or field under the Act, the State Government or the officer empowered in this behalf is
satisfied on hearing the applicant the the default has occurred due to the reasons beyond the control of the foreman or
due to other bonafied reasons provided the foreman has paid the fees or filed the necessary documents on or before the
date of such hearing.
5.
Application for registration of chit.
- Every application for the registration of a chit to be made by the foreman to the Registrar shall be in From II.
6.
Endorsement of registration of a chit.
- The endorsement of registration of a chit agreement to be issued by the Registrar shall be in Form III.
7.
Registration number of chit.
- Every chit registered under the Act shall be numbered serially by the Registrar in separate series for each calender.
year.
8.
Communication of the refusal to register a chit.
(a)
If the Registrar refuses to register a chit, he shall record the reasons for refusal written and communicate a copy of the
Page 2/39
----- PAGE 3 -----
Chit Funds (Rajasthan) Rules, 1989
order to the applicant.
(b)
Before refusing to register a chit, the Registrar shall issue a notice to the foreman calling upon him to show cause within
reasonable period to be stipulated on such notice why registration be not refused.
(c)
Where the grounds for the proposed refusal to register a chit is default of payment of fees or filling any statement or
record required to be paid or filed under the act the Registrar shall condone the said default if the Registrar is satisfied
on hearing the foreman that the default has occurred due to the reason beyond the foreman or due to other bonafide
reasons provided the foreman has paid the fees or filed the necessary documents or before the date of such hearing.
9.
Application for appropriation of any sum from the reserve fund.
- Every application for obtaining prior approval of the Registrar for appropriation by a company of any sum from the
reserve fund shall be in From IV.
10.
Declaration to be filed about subscriptions to all tickets of a chit.
- Every declaration to be filed by a foreman after all tickets in a chit specified in the chit agreement have been fully
subscribed shall be in From V.
11.
Form of certificate of commencement of chit.
- The certificate of commencement of a chit to be granted to the foreman shall be in form VI.
12.
Form of certificate about furnishing a copy of the chit agreement to the subscribers of a chit.
- The certificate by the foreman about having furnished a copy of the chit agreement to every subscriber of a chit to be
filed with the Registrar shall be in Form VII.
13.
Form of chit agreement.
- The chit, agreement of every chit started under the Act shall, as far as may be conform to the proforma set forth in
Form
14.
Registration of alteration, addition or omission of chit agreement.
(1)
No alteration, addition or omission of any provision in the chit agreement shall have effect unless such alteration or
addition or as the case may be, omission is registered. If the foreman makes any alteration or addition or omission of
any provision in the chit agreement, he shall submit such alteration or omission in duplicate to the Registrar duly signed
and attested by at least two witnesses alongwhith the application for registration of such alteration or addition or
omission as the case may be of the chit agreement.
(2)
An application to register an alteration of or addition to or omission of any provision in the chit agreement shall be dealt
with in the same manner as an application for registration of the chit agreement.
15.
Date of effect of alteration or addition or omission of any provision in the chit agreement.
- An alteration of or addition to or omission of, any provision in the chit agreement shall not take effect from a date earlier
than the date of such registration of the alteration or addition or omission as the case may be unless otherwise ordered
by the Registrar:
Provided that the Registrar shall not give effect to the alteration or addition or omission from a date earlier than the date
of application for registration of the alteration or addition or omission of any-provision of the chit agreement, as the case
may be.
16.
Form of Notice to chit subscriber.
- Every notice to be given by a foreman to the subscribers in a chit under section 16 shall be in Form IX. It shall be sent
to each subscriber under certificate of posting and shall also be exhibited on the Notice board of the office of the
Page 3/39
----- PAGE 4 -----
Chit Funds (Rajasthan) Rules, 1989
foreman.
17.
Form of minutes of proceedings.
- The minutes of proceeding of every draw shall, in addition to the particulars specified in sub-section (2) of section 17,
contain full particulars of the following points, namely:-
(a)
Particulars of deposit, if any, of the prize amount under subsections (1) and (2) of section 22 since the date of the
previous draw;
(b)
Particulars of deposit, if any, of money under sub-section (1) of section 30 and sub-section (4) of section 33 since the
date of the previous draw;
(c)
Amount withdrawn from the approved bank (the name of the bank to be specified) and the purpose for which the amount
was withdrawn since the date of the previous draw;
(d)
How the prized subscriber was ascertained according to the terms of the chit agreement and particulars of ticket and
prize amount. If the ascertainment of the prized subscriber related to a fraction of a ticket, particulars in respect of each
such fraction shall be entered;
(e)
Full particulars of the commission paid to the foreman and the amount of dividend assigned to each subscriber;
(f)
Names of subscribers or their authorised agents who bid at drawing, their ticket number and signatures.
Chapter III
Foreman
18.
Procedure in the case of security given by foreman.
(1)
In case of cash deposited in an approved bank in the name of the registrar under Clause (i) of sub-section (1) of section
20, the receipt or the book issued by the approved bank mentioned in the chit agreement shall be delivered to the
Registrar.
(2)
In case of Government securities transferred in favour of the Registrar under clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 20,
the Registrar shall keep them in safe custody under his control in any Government treasury.
(3)
If the security charged is movable property other that deposit in an approved bank of Government Securities, the
foreman shall make all necessary arrangements for their deposit with the Registrar or with such bank or other agency as
may be approved by the Registrar for ensuring that the property deposited is available as security for the proper conduct
of a chit.
(4)
In case of trustee securities to be transferred in favour of the Registrar under clause (c) of sub-section (1) of section 20.
(i)
Where the security is other than immovable property, the value of the security shall not be less than two times the value
of the chit amount.
(ii)
In respect of security of immovable property, the value of the security shall not be less than two times the value of the
amounts.
(5)
A foreman of a chit proposing to give movable (or immovable) property as security for the proper conduct of a chit shall
apply to the Registrar in Form X. The application under this sub-rule shall clearly furnish the correct and complete
information regarding the property offered as security. (In case the property offered is immovable property, the
application shall be accompanied by the documents of title to the property, and an encumbrance certificate for 30 years
Page 4/39
----- PAGE 5 -----
Chit Funds (Rajasthan) Rules, 1989
relating to the property).
(6)
Where the immovable property offered as security is situated outside the jurisdiction of the Registrar having jurisdiction
over the chit, the inspection of the property shall, under the order of the concerned State Government, be made by the
Registrar having Jurisdiction over such property, who shall for4ward a report to the Registrar concerned as to the
sufficiency of the security.
(7)
If the security offered is accepted as sufficient by the Registrar, he shall record in writing on the application, a certificate
of sufficiency in Form XI and attach a statement of the Valuation made.
(8)
If the security offered is not accepted by the Registrar, he shall give the applicant an endorsement to that effect,
19.
Valuation of Chit amount in grain chits.
- In grain chit, for the purpose of security under section 20, the grain shall be valued by the Registrar as follows : -
(a)
The total quantity of grain due from all subscribers at one instalment of the chit shall be ascertained:
(b)
The market value for the time being of the total quantity referred to in clause (a) shall then be calculated;
(c)
In assessing the market value, the Registrar shall adopt the current market prices at the nearest Tehsil town as
ascertained from the Tehsildar having Jurisdiction;
(d)
One and quarter times the market value mentioned in clause (b) shall be taken to be the chit amount for the purpose of
furnishing security by the foreman under sub-section (1) of section 20.
20.
Substitution of Security.
(1)
During the currency of a chit, the foreman may apply to the Registrar in Form XII for permission to substitute the security
given by him for the proper conduct of the chit by fresh security.
(2)
The Registrar may grant permission after satisfying himself:
(i)
That the fresh request of the foreman for substitution of the security given under section 20 is for the reasons stated in
the application; and
(ii)
The procedure prescribed in Rule 18 shall apply Mutatis Mutandis to the substituted security given by the foreman under
this rule.
21.
Procedure for accepting fresh security.
(1)
The registrar shall, if so required by the foreman, execute and register a deed of release in respect of the original
security at the cost of the foreman.
(2)
If the original security to be returned is Government securities deposited in a Government Treasury, the Registrar shall
arrange to return the securities offered by the foreman after making endorsements of re-transfer in the pass-book
(receipt) or Government security (or other record) as the case may be.
(3)
If the original security to be returned is movable property other than Government security the Registrar shall arrange to
return such security by executing such deed or making such endorsement as may be necessary given by him.
22.
Application for release of security.
Page 5/39
----- PAGE 6 -----
Chit Funds (Rajasthan) Rules, 1989
- On termination of the chit, the foreman may apply to the Registrar for the release of the security given by him.
23.
Declaration by foreman.
- The application for release of security under sub-section (5) of section 20 shall contain a declaration separately signed
by the foreman stating that the claims of all the subscribers have been fully satisfied and that all dues payble by the
foreman under the Act to the Registrar or any other officer have been fully paid.
24.
Procedure for release of security.
(1)
(a)
The Registrar may, for the purpose of releasing the security under sub-section (5) of section 20 call upon then foreman
to produce a copy duly certified to be a true copy any register and book of accounts maintained by the foreman and shall
exhibit a notice on his office notice on his office notice board stating that the security is proposed to be released and that
any person objecting to such release may file with the Registrar his statement of objections, if any within fifteen days
from the date of exhibition of the notice.
(b)
If no objection are received within the period specified in the notice, the Registrar shall release the security [together
with interest, if any accrued thereon and remaining unpaid.]
[Added by Notification NO.F.6(37) FD/Rda 1/844 dated 24.04.90, R.G.ord. Part 4(c)(i) dated 26-7-90, p.77]
(2)
If any objections are received the Registrar shall enquire into the objections summarily within fourteen days after the
date of expiry of the period specified in the notice referred to in sub-rule (1( (a) and record his decision in writing and
forward a copy thereof to the foreman and to the objector.
25.
Books of accounts to be maintained by the foreman.
- In addition to book of minutes of drawn mentioned in section 17, every foreman.shall keep the following registers and
books of accounts in the forms mentioned against each or in the forms as near thereto as possible:
1. A register of subscriber in Form XIII.
2. A ledger in Form XIV.
3. A day book in Form XV.
4. A receipt book in Form XVI duly certified by the foreman to the subscribers.
6. A file containing the letters of authorisation of the subscribers , for subscribing his name in the chit agreement and for
participating in the auction of the chit.
7. A file containing the vouchers for payment made by the foreman.
8. A file containing documents relating to securities offered by the prized sub-scribers.
26.
Accounts to be written up promptly.
(1)
Every entry in the register of subscribers, the ledger or the day book mentioned in Rule 25 shall be made as and when
the particulars event occurs.
(2)
On receipt of any money, a receipt shall immediately be prepared or cause to be prepared by the foreman in Form XVI
and delivered to the payer.
(3)
The foreman shall, at the time of issuing every notice, prepare a copy thereof in the book mentioned under clause (5) of
Rule 25, certify it to be true copy and enter therein under his signature, the date of despatch of the notice.
(4)
A voucher duly signed by the recipient shall be obtained by the foreman at the time any payment is made to him and
such voucher shall be immediately filed in the file specified in clause (7) o f Rule 25 after due verification of all the
particulars entered therein.
(5)
Page 6/39
----- PAGE 7 -----
Chit Funds (Rajasthan) Rules, 1989
Every document relating of the security given by prized subscribers shall as soon as it is received by field in the file
mentioned in clause (8) of Rule 25. The file shall contain an index for facilitating the security of the documents.
27.
Filling of Vouchers.
- As soon as each payment is made, the foreman shall obtain a voucher from the payee. He shall verify whether the
voucher specifies the purpose for which the payment was received and whether it is properly signed by the recipient and
preserve it in the file mentioned in clause (7) of Rule 25 after assigning a serial number thereto for each calendar month.
28.
Date submission of balance sheet.
(1)
The balance sheet prepared in accordance with the provisions of section 24 shall be filed with by the Registrar within a
period of three months from the expiry of period with reference to which it is prepared.
(2)
Receipt and expenditure account and statement showing the assets and liabilities of the individual chit group be filed in
the Form XXI with the Registrar within a period of two months from the termination of the chit when the duration of the
chit does not exceed one year and when the duration of chit exceed one year on expiry period of twelve month and also
on the termination of the chit.
28A.
The rate of interest payable by a defaulting subscriber in pursuance of the proviso to section 28(1) of the Act shall not
exceed twelve percent annum.
29.
Audit by a chit auditors.
(1)
If a foreman desires to have the balance sheet and profit and loss account audited by a chit auditor appointed under
sub-section(2) of section 61. the foreman shall immediately after the preparation of the balance sheet make an
application for such audit to the Registrar within jurisdiction the chit is conducted, specifying whether the audit shall be at
the premises of the forman or not. The application shall be accompanied by the amount of fee set out in Appendix II.
(2)
The Registrar shall forward the application the Inspector of Chits having jurisdication, who shall cause the balance sheet
and profit and loss account to be audited by the chit auditor, as expenditiosly as possible. On receipt of the application,
the Inspector of Chit shall forward it to the Chit Auditor, who shall thereupon call the foreman to produce the chit records
on such date, time and place as he may fix and the foreman shall produce all registers books of accounts and other
records relating to the chit accordingly and furnish such information and give such facilities as may be necessary or
required for the balance sheet and profit and loss account and receipt and expenditure account of individual chit at the
time and place fixed by the Chit Auditor.
(3)
Notice of not less than seven days shall be given to the foreman as to the date of audit in the premises of the foreman or
for the production of registers, books of accounts arid other record relating to the chit business as the case may be.
30.
Audit certificate and report of the Chit Audit or to be in quadruplicate.
- The chit auditor shall prepare and audit certificate in quadruplicate and shall send one copy to the foreman, the second
copy to the registrar, the third copy to the Inspector of Chits and keep the remaining copy for his own file.
31.
Time for filling balance sheets audited by a chit auditor or other Auditor.
(1)
Where the audit is done by the chit auditor, the foreman shall file with the Registrar a copy of the balance sheet and
profit and loss account together with the audit certificate and the auditor's report within one month from the date of
receipt of the audit certificate and audit report from the chit auditor or within three months the last day of the period
converted by the balance sheet, and profit and loss account together with the audit certificate and the auditor's report
within one month from the date of receipt of the audit certificate and audit report from the chit auditor or within three
months from the last day of the period covered by the balance sheet, which ever is earlier.
Page 7/39
----- PAGE 8 -----
Chit Funds (Rajasthan) Rules, 1989
(2)
In case of audit by an auditor qualified to act as auditor of companies under the Companies Act, 1956 (Central Act 1 of
1956), the foreman shall file with Registrar the documents referred to in sub-rule(1) within three months from the expiry
of the period with reference to which the balance sheet is prepared under section 24, and in the case of individual chit as
referred to in sub- rule(2) or rule 28, within a period of two months.
Chapter-IV Winding up of Chits
32.
Form of petition for winding up and presentation.
- A petition for winding up of a chit shall contain the following particulars, namely : -
(1)
Full name, description, occupation and address of the petitioner : -
(2)
Address of his advocate, if any, for the service of all notices, process etc.
(3)
Address of the foreman.
(4)
Particulars of the chit:-
(i)
Number and date of registration of the chit agreement.
(ii)
Office where the chit agreement was registered.
(iii)
The Chit amount.
(iv)
The total number of tickets.
(v)
The number of subscribers and the number of tickets subscribed by each subscriber.
(vi)
The number of non-prized subscribers, on the date of the petition; and
(vii)
The number of unpaid prized subscribers, if any.
(5)
Facts on which the petitioner relies in support of the petitions.
(6)
Particulars relating to the award and execution of other process which has been returned unsatisfied in whole or in part.
if the ground of the petition is that execution of other process issued on an award or order of the Registrar in favour of
any subscriber in respect of the amounts due to him from the foreman was returned unsatisfied in whole or in part.
(7)
Full details to show that the condition prescribed in clause (a) of the proviso to section 49 is satisfied. if the winding up of
the chit is applied for under clause (d) of section 48 and if the said clause (a) applies.
(8)
Whether the previous sanction of the State Government has been obtained, if clause (b) of the proviso to section 49
applies. (A copy of the relevant order of the State Government shall be attached.)
33.
Proposals for collection and distribution of chit assets.
(1)
The receiver shall as soon as possible settle and submit to the Registrar a statement (hereinafter referred to as the
"Provisional Statement") showing:-
(a)
The names of subscribers and other persons to whom moneys are due to the chit;
(b)
Page 8/39
----- PAGE 9 -----
Chit Funds (Rajasthan) Rules, 1989
The names of the subscribers and other persons to whom moneys are due from the chit;
(c)
Proposals to how the chit assets are to be collected and applied in the discharge of its liabilities; and
(d)
The amount proposed to be paid to each of the persons specified in clause (b).
(2)
The Notice of the preparation of the provisional statement accompanied by a copy thereof shall be published and served
on the petitioner, the Registrar may direct. If the number of persons on whom notice is to be served is large, the notice
may, in the discretion of the Registrar, be served on the petitioner only and advertised in one or more daily newspapers.
The notice shall specify the date on which objections to the provisional statement will be heard and shall call upon any
persons having such objections.-
(i)
To submit his statement of objections and the ground therefor for sup-ported by an affidavit before the date appointed by
the Registrar in this behalf; and
(ii)
To appear in person or by advocate on date of hearing with all the evidence in support of his objections.
34.
Set-off to be allowed.
- When money is due from the foreman to a subscriber and also from the subscriber to the foreman, the subscriber shall
be allowed the benefit of a set-off.
35.
Hearing of objections to the provisional statements.
- On the date fixed for the hearing of the objections under sub-rule(2) of rule 33, the Registrar shall enquire into the
objections and after considering the evidence, if any, adduced in support thereof pass orders on the objections and call
upon if any, adduced in support thereof pass orders on the objections and call upon the receiver to revice, if necessary,
the provisional statement in accordance with his order. The Registrar shall fix a date by which such revision is to be
made and intimate orally or in writing such date date to the persons who have appeared in person or through their
advocates on the date of the hearing.
36.
Final orders of settlement by Register.
(1)
As soon as possible thereafter and at least ten days before the date fixed under Rule 35, the Receiver shall submit to
the Registrar a fresh list of subscriber or other persons to whom or from whom moneys are due and fresh proposals
from the distribution of the available chit assets after making such further enquiry as may be necessary. The Registrar
shall thereupon consider the said list and proposals and approve or modify them in such manner as he considers
necessary. The registrar shall pass final orders accordingly on the date fixed under Rule 35 for the collection and
distribution of the chit assets. The registrar may also pass such orders as may be necessary for the distribution of the
available chit assets in case such assets happen to be insufficient to meet the sums which have to be paid to the
subscribers.
(2)
The final orders passed by the Registrar under this Rule shall be conclusive evidence of the several claims to be met out
of the chit assets.
37.
Provision for expenses of winding up.
- In making proposals for the distribution of the chit assets. the receiver shall specify the estimated amount of the cost of
winding up including remuneration for the Receiver and such other items of expenditure as are incidental to the winding
up and such estimated amount shall first be provided for and deducted from the value of the chit assets and the balance
amount shall also be proposed for distribution in the provisional statement and the fresh list mentioned in rule 36.
38.
Filling of final accounts by Receivers.
(1)
Page 9/39
----- PAGE 10 -----
Chit Funds (Rajasthan) Rules, 1989
Upon the termination of the proceedings relating to the winding up, the Receiver shall file his final accounts with the
Registrar within fifteen days of such final accounts being passed by the Registrar, the balance of money in the hands of
the Receiver shall be paid to the Registrar. The receiver shall also state how the balance amount may be disposed of
together with the reason for his proposals. He shall also deposit with the Registrar all books, accounts and all other
records relating, to the chit which has been wound up.
(2)
The receiver may thereafter apply to the Registrar for a certificate of discharge from the duties as Receiver and for the
vacating of his recognisance bonds entered into by him and the sureties, if any on receipt of such application the
Registrar may pass orders of such discharge and vacating of the bonds and for the disposal of the final balance of the
chit assets, if any.
39.
Final order of winding up by the Registrar.
(1)
After the affairs of a chit have been completely wound up, to the Registrar shall make an order recording the fact of such
winding up.
(2)
A copy of such order shall be exhibited on the notice board of the Registrar.
40.
Disposal of records.
- The books and papers of a chit which has been been completely wound up and of the Receiver shall be retained and
disposed of in such a manner as the Registrar may direct.
41.
Meetings.
- When the number of subscribers is large and the Registrar, whether on application of the Receiver or not, at any stage
considers that a meeting of all such parties is necessary in order to ascertain their wishes in any matter, the Registrar
may pass an order for holding such a meeting. The Registrar may direct the manner in which and the time and place at
which the meeting shall he held and the Receiver shall convence and hold the meeting accordingly.
Chapter-V Fees
42.
Table of feeds.
- The fees payable to the Registrar for matters specified in section 62 and section 63 shall be as set out in Appendix H
and shall be paid in cash.
43.
Receipt for Fees.
- The Registrar shall grant receipts for all fees received by him.
44.
Refund of Fees.
- The Registrar may refund any fee paid to hi8m in excess of the amount prescribed or any fee that is unearned.
Explanation. - The expression "fee that is unearned" in this rule means fees paid in connection with the registration of
the chit agreement of the chit agreement, the filling of a document or other service to be performed by the Registrar
where such registration or filling is not actually effected or the service is not actually ended.
Chapter-VI Disputes and Arbitration
45.
Reference of dispute.
- Reference of a dispute under section 64 shall be made in writing to the Registrar in Form XVII. Whenever produce a
certified copy of the relevant records on which the dispute is based and such other statements or records as may be
required by him, before proceeding with the consideration of such reference.
46.
Registrar's satisfaction regarding existence of dispute.
- Where any reference of a dispute is made to the Registrar or any matter is brought to his notice, the Registrar shall, on
the basis of the reference (if any) made to him in Form XVII and the relevant records and statement submitted to him]
Page 10/39
----- PAGE 11 -----
Chit Funds (Rajasthan) Rules, 1989
record his decision together with the reasons therefor, whether he is or not satisfied about the existence of dispute within
the meaning of Section 64. such recording of decision shall be sufficient proof of the Registrar's satisfaction whether the
matter is or is not a dispute as the case may be.
47.
Disposal of a dispute or reference to a nominee.
(1)
Where the Registrar is satisfied that there is a dispute the Registrar may decide the dispute himself of refer it for
disposal to his nominee.
(2)
Neither the Registrar nor his nominee shall take up for consideration any dispute, unless the parties concerned comply
with the conditions of affixing the court fees specified in Rule 57 for determining the dispute.
48.
Qualifications for appointment as a Registrars nominees.
(1)
The State Government may appoint a person to be as Registrar's nominee provided that : -
(a)
He has practised as an Advocate, pleader or Vakil for not less than five year, or
(b)
He is enrolled as an Advocate or holds a degree or other authority which entitles him to be enrolled as an advocate, and
either
(i)
has held rity which entitles him to be enrolled as an Advocate4, and either (i) has held office not lower in rank than that
of Deputy Registrar of Chits for not less than five years, or
(ii)
possesses good knowledge and experience of chit fund legislation and practice.
(2)
The State Government may, by notification in the official Gazette appoint as many persons as might be necessary to act
as Registrar's nominee for settlement of disputes under the Act.
49.
Procedure for bearing and decision of dispute.
- The Registrar or his nominee shall record in the official language in vague in the State, the evidence of the parties to
the dispute and the witnesses as who attend. Upon the evidence so recorded and upon consideration of any
documentary evidence produced by the parties, a decision shall be given by him in writing. Such decision shall be
pronounced in the open court, either at once or as soon as may be practicable on some future day, of which due notice
shall be given to the parties.
(2)
Where neither party appears when the dispute is called out for hearing, the Registrar or his nominee may make an order
that it be dismissed for default.
(3)
Where the opponent appears and the disputant does not appears when the dispute is called out for hearing, the
Registrar or his nominee may make an order that the dispute be dismissed, unless the opponent admits the claims or a
part thereof, in which case the Registrar or his nominee as the case may be, may make an order against the opponent
upon such admission, and where, part only of the claims is admitted, may dismiss the dispute in so far it relates to the
remainder.
(4)
Where the disputant appears and opponent does not appear when the dispute is called out for hearing, then if the
Registrar or his nominee is satisfied from the record and proceedings that the summons was duly served, the Registrar
or his nominee may proceed with the dispute exparte. Where the summons is served by any officer of the Registrar or
his nominee, he shall make his report of service on oath.
(5)
The Registrar or his nominee may not ordinarily grant more than two adjournments to each party to the dispute at his
Page 11/39
----- PAGE 12 -----
Chit Funds (Rajasthan) Rules, 1989
request. The Registrar or his discretion grant such further adjournments on payment of such costs to the other side and
such fees to the Registrar or his nominee as the Registrar or his nominee as the case may be, may direct.
(6)
Any party to a dispute may apply for and obtain a certified copy of any order, judgment or award made by the registrar or
his nominee on payment of copying fees at the rate prescribed to Appendix II.
50.
Summonses, notices and fixing of dates, place, etc. in connection with the dispute
(1)
The Registrar, or as the case maybe, his nominee, may issue summons or notices at least fifteen days before the date
fixed for the hearing of the dispute requiring;
(i)
The attendance of the parties to the dispute and of witnesses, if any, and
(ii)
The production of books and documents relating to the matter in dispute.
(2)
Summons or notice issued by the Registrar or his nominee may be served through any employee of the Chit
Department or by Registered post with acknowledgement due.
(3)
The Officer serving a summons or notice shall, in all cases -in which summons or notice has been served, endorsed or
annex or cause to be endorsed on or annexed to, the original summons or notice a return stating the time when, and the
manner in which, the summons or, as the case may be, notice was served, and address of the person (if any) identifying
the person served and witnessing the delivery or tender of the summons or the notice.
(4)
The official issuing the summons or notice may examine the serving officer on oath or cause him to be so examined by
the officer through whom it is served and may make such further enquiry in the matter as he thinks fit, and shall either
declare that the summons or, as the case may be, notice has been duly served or order is to be served in such manner
as he thinks fit.
(5)
The mode of serving summons and notices as laid down in subrules (1) to (4) shall mutatis mutandis apply to the service
of summonses or notice issued by the Registrar of the person authorised by him, when acting under section 46.
51.
Investing of Claims and objections against any attachment.
- Where any claim or objection has been preferred against the attachment of any property under section 68 on the
ground that such property is not liable to such attachment, the Registrar, or as the case maybe, his nominee shall
investigate into the claim or objection and dispose it of merits:
Provided that, no such investigation shall be made when the Registrar or his nominee consider that the claim or
objection is frivolous.
52.
Procedure for the custody of property attached under section 68.
(1)
Where the property to be attached is movable property other than agricultural produced the possession of the debtor,
the attachment shall be made by actual seizure and the attaching officer shall keep the property in his own custody or in
the custody of one of his subordinates, or of a Receiver, if one is appointed under sub-rule (2) and shall be responsible
for the due custody thereof:
Provided that, when the property seized is subject to speedy and natural decay, or when the expenses of keeping it in
custody is likely to exceed its value, the attaching officer may sell it at once.
(2)
Where it appears to the officer ordering conditional attachment under section 68 to be just and convenient, he may
appoint a Receiver for the custody of the movable property attached under that section and his duties and liabilities shall
be identical with those of a Receiver appointed under order XL in the First Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure,
1908.
Page 12/39
----- PAGE 13 -----
Chit Funds (Rajasthan) Rules, 1989
(3)
(i)
Where the property to be attached is immovable, the attachment shall be made by an order prohibiting the debtor from
transferring or charging the property in any way, and all persons from taking any benefit from such transfer or charge.
(ii)
The order shall be proclaimed at some place on, or adjacent to, such property by beat of drums or other customary
mode, and a copy of the order shall be fixed, on a conspicuous part of the property and upon a conspicuous part of the
village place in the village, and where the property is paying revenue to the State Government also in the office of the
collector of the district and in the office of the Revenue Officer within whose jurisdiction the property is situated.
53.
Procedure for attachment and sale of property for realisation of any security given by person incourse of execution
proceedings.
- The procedure laid down in rules 51 and 52 shall mutatis inutandis apply for attachment and sale of property for the
realisation of any security given by a person in the course of execution proceedings.
54.
Issue of proclamation prohibiting Private transfer of property.
- The Registrar when acting under clause (1) of section 71 shall, at the time of signing a certificate affecting any property
issue a proclamation in Form XVIII and in the case of immovable property shall also forward a copy of the proclamation
to the revenue officer within whose jurisdiction the property is situated, who shall cause an entry about such certificates
to be made in the Record of Rights.
55.
Procedure for execution of awards.
- Every order or award passed by the Registrar, or his nominee under section 68 and 69 shall be forwarded by the
Registrar to the foreman or to the party concerned with instructions that the foreman or, as the case may be, the party
concerned should initiate execution proceedings forthwith according to the provisions of Section 71.
(2)
If the amount due under the award is not forthwith recovered, or the order there under is not carried out, it shall be
forwarded to the Registrar with an application for execution along with all information required by the Registrar, for the
issue of certificate under section 71. The applicant shall state whether he desired to execute the award through a civil
court or through the revenue authorities as provided under Section 71.
(3)
On receipt of such application for execution the Registrar shall forward the same to the proper authority for execution
along with a certificate issue by him under section 71 and a proclamation issued under Rule 54 in the manner prescribed
therein.
(4)
Every order passed in appeal under section 70 shall also be executed in the manner laid down in sub-rules (2) & (3).
56.
Transfer of property which cannot be sold.
(1)
When, in execution of an order sought to be executed under Section 71, any property cannot be sold for want of buyers,
if such property in the possession of the defaulter or of some person on his behalf or of some person claiming it under a
title created by the defaulter subsequent to the issue of the certificate by the Registrar under clause (a) and (b) of the
said section, the officer conducting the execution shall be as soon as practicable report the fact to the Court or the
Collector or the Registrar as the case may be, and the judgment creditor applying for the execution of the said order.
(2)
On.receipt of a report under sub-rule (1), the judgment creditor may, within six months from the date of the receipt of the
report or within such further period as may for sufficient reasons be allowed in any particular case by the Court or the
Collector or the Registrar, submit an application in writing to the Court, the Collector or the Registrar, as the case may
be, stating whether or not he agrees to take over such property.
(3)
On receipt of an application under sub-rule (2), notice shall be issued to the defaulter and to all persons known to be
Page 13/39
----- PAGE 14 -----
Chit Funds (Rajasthan) Rules, 1989
interested in the property, including those whose names appear in the Record of Rights as persons holding any interest
in the property, about the intended transfer.
(4)
On receipt of such a notice, the default, or any person owning such property, or holding an interest therein by virtue of a
title acquired before the date of the issue of a certificate under section 71, may, within one month from the date of the
receipt of such notice, deposit with the Court or the Collector or the Registrar, for payment to the Foremen a sum equal
to the amount due under the order sought to be executed together with interest thereon and such additional sum for
payment of costs and other incidental expenses as may be determined in this behalf by the Court or the Collector or the
Registrar, as the case may be.
(5)
On failure of the defaulter, or any person interested, or any person holding any interest in the property, to deposit the
amount under sub-rule (4), the Court or the Collector or the Registrar, as the case may be shall direct the property be
transferred to the judgment creditor on the conditions stated in the certificate in Form XIX.
(6)
The certificate granted under sub-rule (5) shall state whether the property is transferred to the judgment creditor in full or
partial satisfaction of the amount due to him from the defaulter.
(7)
If the property is transferred to the judgment creditor in partial satisfaction of the amount due to him from the defaulter,
the Court or the Collector or the Registrar, as the case may be shall on the production by the judgment creditor of a
certificate signed by the Registrar, recover the balance due in the manner laid down in section 71.
(8)
The transfer of the property under sub-section (5) shall be effected as follows:
(i)
In the case of movable property:-
(a)
Where the property is in the possession of the defaulter himself or has been taken possession of on behalf of the Court
or the Collector or the Registrar, it shall be delivered to the judgment creditor;
(b)
Where the property is in the possession of some person on behalf of a defaulter, the delivery thereof shall be made by
giving notice to the person in possession, to the judgment creditor and prohibiting him from delivering possession of the
property to any other person;
(c)
The property shall be delivered to person authorised by the party to take possession on behalf of the judgment creditor.
(ii)
In the case of immovable property:-
(a)
Where the property is growing or standing crop, it may be delivered to the judgment creditor before it is cut and gathered
and the judgment creditor shall be entitled to enter on the land, and to do-all that is necessary for the purpose of tending
and cutting and gathering it.
(b)
Where the property is in the possession of the defaulter or of some person on his behalf or some person claiming under
a title created by the defaulter subsequent to the issue of certificate under section 71; the Court or the Collector or the
Registrar as the case may be, shall order delivery to be made by putting the judgment creditor or any person whom he
may appoint to receive delivery on his behalf in actual possession of the property and if need by removing any person
who illegally refuses to vacate the same.
(c)
Where the property is in the possession of a tenant or other person entitled to hold the same by a title acquired before
the date of issue of a certificate under section 71, the Court or the Collector or the Registrar as the case maybe, shall
order delivery to be made by affixing a copy of the certificate of transfer of the property to the judgment creditor is some
conspicuous place on the property and proclaiming to such person by beat of drum or other customary mode at some
convenient place that the interest of the defaulter has been transferred to the judgment creditor.
Page 14/39
----- PAGE 15 -----
Chit Funds (Rajasthan) Rules, 1989
(9)
The judgment creditor shall be required to pay expenses incidental to sale including the cost of maintenance of live
stock, if any, according to such scale as-may be fixed by the registrar from time to time.
(10)
Where land is transferred to the judgment creditor under sub-clause (i) of clause (ii) of sub-rule (8) before the growing or
standing crop is cut and gathered, the judgment creditor shall be liable to pay the current year's land revenue on the
land.
(11)
The judgment creditor shall forthwith report any transfer of property under sub-clause (b) or (c) of clause (ii) of sub-rule
(8) to the village accountant for information and entry in the Record of Rights.
(12)
The judgment creditor to whom property is transferred under sub-rule (5) shall maintain for each such defaulter a
separate account showing all the expense incurred including payment to outside encumbrances, land revenue and other
dues on the property and all the income derived from it.
(13)
The judgment creditor to whom property is transferred under sub-rule (5) shall use his best endeavour to sell the
property as soon as practicable to the best advantage of the Foreman as well as that of the defaulter, the first option
being always given to the defaulter who originally owned the property. The sale shall be subject to confirmation by the
Registrar.
The proceeds of the sale shall be applied to defraying the expenses of the sale and other expenses incurred by the
judgment creditor and referred to in sub-rule (9) and (12) and to the payment of the arrears due by the defaulter under
the order in execution, and the surplus (if any) shall then be paid to the defaulter.
(14)
Until the property is sold the judgment creditor to whom the property is transferred under sub-rule (5) shall use his best
endeavours to lease it or to make any other sue that can be made if it so as to derive the largest possible income from
the property.
(15)
When the judgment creditor to whom property is transferred under sub-rule (5) has realised all his dues, under the order
in execution of which the property was transferred, from the proceeds of management of the property, the property if
unsold shall be resorted to the defaulter.
57.
Payment of fees for decision of disputes.
- The Registrar or his nominee, as the case may be, may take a dispute on file only, if the application regarding
reference for such dispute in Form XVII is affixed with Court fee Stamps of the following scales, namely:-
Proper Court Fee
(i) Simple money claims-
Rs. P.
(a) When the amount of the claim
in dispute does not exceed Rs. 1000/-
25.00
(b) When the amount exceeds Rs.
1000/- but does not exceeds Rs. 5000/-
50.00
(c) Whom such amount exceeds Rs.
5000/-
75.00
(ii) Complicated money claims :-
(a) When the amount of the claim
in dispute does not exceed Rs. 1000/-
50.00
(b) When such amount exceeds Rs.
Page 15/39
----- PAGE 16 -----
Chit Funds (Rajasthan) Rules, 1989
1000/- but does not exceed Rs. 5000/-
75.00
(c) When such amount exceeds Rs.
5000/-
100.00
(iii) All other disputes
100.00
Explanation: - For the purposes of this sub-rule, "Simple Money Claim" means the Claims of a Foreman whose business
consists of conducting chits including disbursement of prize amount base on loan bonds, promissory notes admissions
or acknowledgements, and "Complicated money claims" mean all money claims other than simple money claims. The
question regarding the classification of a dispute for the purposes of this sub-rule shall be decided by the Registrar or his
nominee deciding the dispute and the decision of the Registrar or his nominee as the case may be, shall be final.
(2)
No documents of any of the kinds specified below shall be filed before the Registrar or his nominee unless it is affixed
with the proper court-fee stamp as specified against it: -
Proper Court Fee
Rs. P.
(i) Vakalatnama
2.00
(ii) Application for adjournment
10.00
(iii) Application for interim stay or relief
25.00
(3)
(a)
The Registrar or his nominee deciding any dispute may require the party, or parties to the dispute to deposit such sums
as may, in his opinion be necessary to meet the expenses, including payment of fee to the Registrar or his nominee as
the case may be.
(b)
The Registrar or his nominee shall have power to order the fees and expenses of determining the dispute to be paid by
the Foreman out of his funds or by such party, or parties to the dispute, as he may think fit according to the scale laid
down by the Registrar, after taking into account the amount deposited as above.
(c)
The Registrar may by general or special order specify the scale of fee and expenses of be paid to him or his nominee.
Chapter VII
Miscellaneous
58.
Appeal to be in writing:.
(1)
An appeal under Section 70 or sub-section (1) and (20 of section 74 shall be either presented in person or sent by
Registered post to the State Government or to such officer or authority (hereinafter referred to appellate authority) as
may be empowered by notification in the official Gazette by the Statement in that behalf.
(2)
The appeal shall be in the form of a memorandum which shall be affixed with court fee stamps of Rs. 150.00
(3)
Every appeal shall : -
(a)
Specify the names and address of the appellant as well as respondent;
(b)
State by whom the order appealed against was made;
(c)
Page 16/39
----- PAGE 17 -----
Chit Funds (Rajasthan) Rules, 1989
Set forth concisely and under distinct heads the grounds of objections to the order appealed against with a
memorandum of evidence;
(d)
State precisely the relief which the appellant aims,
(e)
Give the date of the order appealed against.
59.
Hearing and disposal of the appeal.
- On receipt of the appeal the appellate authority shall, as soon as possible examine it and ens ire that:-
(a)
The appeal memorandum is affixed with court fee stamps of the value specified in rule 58(2);
(b)
The person presenting the appeal has the locus standi to do so;
(c)
It is made within the specified time limit, and
(d)
It confirms to all the provision of the Act and these rules.
(2)
In the proceedings before the appellate authority, the appellate and the respondent may be represented by an agent
holding a power of attorney or by a legal practitioner.
(3)
The appellate authority, on the basis of the enquiry conducted and with reference to the records examined, pass such
order on appeal as may seem just and reasonable.
(4)
Every order of the appellate authority under sub-rule (3) shall be in writing and it shall be communicated to the parties
concerned and the Registrar.
60.
Period of retention of record by the Registrar.
- The record of a chit including registers and books of account be preserved in the office of the Registrar for eight years
(a) from the release of the security in the case of chits, which are terminated and (b) from the date when the affairs of
the chit are completely wound up in cases dealt with in Chapter X of the Act and if orders passed under that Chapter are
appealable, from the date of disposal of the appeal.
61.
Registrar of records kept.
- Every Registrar shall keep a separate register in which shall be entered particulars of all records relating to chits
registered in his office.
62.
Compounding of offences arising under the Act.
(1)
Any officer em-powered by the State Government shall issue a show cause notice before taking any action under
sections 76 or 77 of the Act against any person who has committed or reasonably suspected to have committed any
offence under the Act or rules made thereunder asking him to show cause within period of fifteen days, why action under
the said section 76 or the case may be under section 77 of the Act should not be taken against him.
(2)
Notwithstanding anything contained in the said provision:-
(i)
Any officer empowered by the State Government to compound the offence committed under the Act or reasonably
suspected to have committed by any person, either before or after the institution of the criminal proceedings under the
Act. Provided that said proposal to compound the offence is accepted by any officer authorised by the State
Government.
(ii)
Page 17/39
----- PAGE 18 -----
Chit Funds (Rajasthan) Rules, 1989
On an approval of the said proposal by the officer empowered to approve such a proposal referred above, the officer
empowered to compound the offence shall send an intimation in writing in that behalf to that person specifying therein.
(a)
A sum determined by way of composition.
(b)
The date on or before which the sum shall be paid.
Appendix I
Form - 1
(See Section 4(2) and Rule 3)
(Form of application to be used by a foreman for obtaining prior sanction to commence or conduct a chit)
Place :
Date :
From
............................
............................
To,
The Secretary to the Government
.................................................
OR
(The authorised officer by Designation)
Sir,
I............................ Son/wife/daughter of............................ (here state profession or occupation) residing at /we, the
Chairman and Secretary respectively* on behalf of (name of the firm, company, co-operative society, etc.) situate
at/having its registered office at desires to commence and conduct a chit, as fore foreman at (here specify the place with
postal address in detail). Full particulars in this regard are given in the Annexure hereto.
2. A certified true copy of the resolution passed by the Managing Committee/Board of Directors at its meeting held on
the............................ for commencing and conducting the chit in question is enclosed.
3. I/We remit herewith a sum of Rs............................. (Rupees in words............................ only) being the fees prescribed
for the purpose.
4. I/We hereby certify that the aggregate chit amount of the chits run by me/us is Rs............................. (Rupees
...............) on the date of this application and does not exceed the aggregate chit amount prescribed by section 13 of the
Chit Funds Act, 1982 (Central Act No. 40 of 1982).
5. I/We request you to accord your sanction for commencing and conducting the chit. On receipt of such sanction further
steps for registration, etc. of the align=right>Chit will be taken.
Yours faithfully,
**Chairman
Secretary
(for or on behalf of
***
Encl :- Sheets.
*Strike out or delete whatever is not applicable.
**Insert the designations as may be appropriate to the applicant..
*** Here enter the name of the applicant institution, if any.
Annexure
Statement of Particulars
1.
Name and address of the company/ association of
individuals/co-operative society/partnership/sole proprietor-ship
(addresses of the Registered as well as the Head
Office/Administrative office, if any should be given).
2.
Page 18/39
----- PAGE 19 -----
Chit Funds (Rajasthan) Rules, 1989
Constitution i.e. whether incorporated as company/co-operative
society or registered/unregistered association of
individuals/partnership/sole proprietorship (Also specify the
provision of the Act under which incorporated/registered along
with the date of incorporation/ registration).
3.
Names and addresses of the branches/offices, if any.
4.
Main objects of the institution (Enclose a copy of the
Memorandum and Articles of Association or as the case may be, of
the Bye-laws of Rules or Rules regulating the activities of the
institution).
5.
Names, occupations and residential addresses of the directors
or as the case may be, of the promotors/members of the committee
of management/partners, etc.
6.
Names & residential addresses of the Chief Executive
officer and two other officers immediately next to him, in the
managerial set-up.
7.
Names of the bankers and their address.
8.
Names of the auditors and their addresses.
9.
Particulars of the chit(s) to be started (such as the chit
amount, duration of the chit, frequency of the draws, maner of
draws, etc. Also attach a copy of the draft of the chit agreement
to entered into with the subscribers).
10.
Places where the chit scheme (s) are proposed to be conducted.
11.
Names and addresses of the associate companies/co-operative
societies/associations of individuals/partner ships/sole
proprietorships.
12.
Names, occupations and residential addresses of the directors
or as the case may be, of the promotors/members of the committee
of management, etc. of the institution (s) referred to in item 11.
I/We solemnly declare that the facts stated herein as also in the enclosures are true to the best of my/our knowledge,
information and belief.
Dated this.......... days........ of........ ........at..........
Signature
Names (s)
Designation (s)
For and on behalf of................
[Here enter the name of the applicant institution]
Note:- (i) If the space against any item is inadequate for furnishing full particulars, the required information should be
given in separate sheets indicating the cross reference against the relative item of this statement.
(ii)
A copy of each of the latest available audited Balance sheet and Profit and Loss Account, if any, should be attached.
Page 19/39
----- PAGE 20 -----
Chit Funds (Rajasthan) Rules, 1989
Form II
Application for registration of the Chit agreement
(See Section 7 and Rule 5)
Place :
Date:
To
The Registrar of Chits,
.......................
Dear Sir,
1. (a) I............. son of Shri...........being the foreman conducting chit under the name and style of @............at..........
or...........
(b)
We............the Chairman and Secretary respectively of the foreman conducting chit business under the name and style
of@ ........ at......... hereby apply for registration of the chit agreement.
2. The chit agreement in duplicate is attached herewith together with a sum of Rs.............. being the registration fees as
required under the Chit Funds Rules.
3. The number of current chits which are running as on the date of this application is.......and the aggregate chit amount
of these chits involved therein is Rs........which is within the limits specified in Section 13 of the Chit Funds Act, 1982
(Central Act No. 40 of 1982).
4. A certified true copy of the sanction obtained under the Section 4 of the above Act for commencement and conduct of
the chit in question is enclosed. A copy of the application dated the..........together with its enclosures made to the State
Government/Authorised Officer in this behalf is also enclosed for information and ready reference.
5. I/We remit herewith a sum of Rs. ............/- (Rupees in words...............) being the fee prescribed for the purpose.
Declaration
6. I/We have read the Chit Funds Act, 1982 (Central Act No. 40 of 1982) and the Rules made by the State Government
thereunder and I/We declare that the chit agreement has been drawn up in conformity with the provisions of the said Act
and the Rules.
The above statements are true and complete to best of my/your knowledge, information and belief.
Yours faithfully
Chairman
Secretary.
Names
Designation (s)
..........@ for and on behalf of (Foreman).
Note :- (1) @ Here enter the name of the applicant institution, if any.
(2)
Strike out or delete whatever is not applicable. Insert the designation (s) as may he appropriate to the applicant.
Form III
(See Section 7(2) and Rule 6)
Endorsement of Registration
I hereby certify that the Chit Agreement relating to the chit proposed to be conducted by..........................................(the
name and address of the foreman should be filed in here) as a foreman has this..........day of.........19....... been
registered by me under sub-section (2) of section 7 of the Chit Funds Act, 1982 (Central Act No.40 of 1982) as Chit
No......of..........
Given under my hand and seal this............... day of.............. at...........
(Seal)
Signature of Registrar
Form IV
[See Section 8 (4) and Rule 9]
Place :
Date :
Page 20/39
----- PAGE 21 -----
Chit Funds (Rajasthan) Rules, 1989
The Registrar of Chits,
.......................
.......................
Dear Sir,
In terms of sub-section (4) of section 8 of the Chit Funds Act, 1982 (Central Act No. 40 of 1982) we hereby seek your
approval for appropriating a sum of Rs....../ (Rupees in words........) by withdrawal from the Reserve Fund of the
company. This withdrawal has been necessitated by the following circumstances (here state the circumstances under
which withdrawal from the Reserve Fund has become necessary).
2. We enclose for your information a copy each of the profit and loss account and the balance sheet for the last two
accounting years as also a proforma of the balance sheet and profit and loss account for the current year ended......A
true copy of the resolution passed by the Managing Committee/Board of Director on the.......... for appropriation of the
said sum from the Reserve Fund is also enclosed. We shall be glad to furnish such further information as may be
required by you.
3. We remit herewith a sum of Rs......../-(Rupees in words........)being the fees prescribed for the purpose.
4. We shall be glad if you will kindly grant us permission to withdraw a sum of......... from the Reserve Fund.
Yours faithfully,
Chairman
Secretary
*for and on behalf of
(foreman/company)
*Here enter the name of the applicant/company.
Form V
(See Section 9(1) and Rule 10)
Place :
Date :
To,
The Registrar of Chits,
........................
Dear Sir,
By your letter dated the...................you were pleased to grant me/us a certificate of registration to start a new chit of a
chit amount of Rs........... and of a duration............ months.
2. I/We have subsequently enlisted the required number of members and we hereby declare in terms of sub-section (1)
of section 9 of the Chit Funds Act, 1982 (Central Act No. 40 of 1982) that all the tickets specified in the Chit Agreement
have been fully subscribed.
3. I/We remit herewith a sum of Rs............. /- (Rupees in words.......) being the fees prescribed for the purpose of filing
this declaration.
Yours faithfully,
Chairman
Secretary
*for and on behalf of (Foreman)
Strike out or delete whatever is not applicable. Insert such designation(s) as may be appropriate to the applicant.
Form VI
(See Section 9(2) and Rule 11)
Certificate of commencement of Chit
Place :
Date :
Office of the Registrar of Chits,
...................
I hereby certify that..........* is entitled to commence and the conduct the chit @.............. the chit agreement in respect of
which was registered in my office as Chit No........... of
Given under my hand and seal, this........day of........ at............
Page 21/39
----- PAGE 22 -----
Chit Funds (Rajasthan) Rules, 1989
Seal
Signature of Registrar.
* Here enter the name of the foreman.
(@ Here mention the chit amount and duration, etc. of the Chit/s.
Form VII
(See Section 10(2) and Rule 12)
To
The Registrar,
.....................
Dear Sir,
I/We .........the Foreman of the Chit/Chairman and Secretary on behalf of the foremen firm/company conducting the Chit,
the chit agreement bearing registration number ......of......... has been registered in the office of the Registrar of Chits.
..........do hereby certify that I/We have furnished to every subscriber of the chit a copy of the said chit agreement duly
certified by me/us to be true copy. The copies were furnished to each of the subscribers on.........
The date of obtaining the certificate of commencement of the said chit granted under sub-section (2) of section 9
is..........
The first draw of the said chit was held on.............
Place :
Yours faithfully,
Chairman
Secretary
For and on the behalf..........................(Foreman)
Strike out or delete whatever is not applicable. Insert such designation(s) as may be appropriate to the applicant.
Form VIII
(See Section 6 and Rule 13)
(Articles of agreement between the foreman and the subscribers)
(1)
Office where the chit is registered
(2)
Year and registered No...... Year...... No. .........
(3)
Full name and address of foreman
(4)
Occupation (if applicable)
(5)
Age (-do-)
I. Chit amount and number of tickets
(1) No. of tickets or fraction thereof held by each subscriber
Full
3/4
1/2
1/4
1/8
(2) No. of instalments and amount payable for
No.
Amount
Rs.
(3) Chit amount
II Duration of the Chit
(1)
Date of 1st instalment
Page 22/39
----- PAGE 23 -----
Chit Funds (Rajasthan) Rules, 1989
(2)
Dates of subsequent instalments
(3)
No. of instalments per year
(4)
Date of termination
(5)
Duration of the chit Year Months
III. The place, time and probable date when the chit is to be commenced.
(1)
Place (Give full particulars)
(2)
Probable date
(3)
Time of commencement of the proceedings
IV. Particulars of security given or deposited by foreman
(1)
Under section 20 of the Act, the following/security sufficient to the satis-faction of the Registrar of Chits, the particulars of
which are described below, has been given for the proper conduct of the chit.
(Here enter description of security such as cash/Government security (immovable property) etc. (In case immovable
property etc. has been charged, its particulars such as its description/location/market value etc. should be given.)
(2)
No, and date of the certificate of Registrar of Chits regarding the sufficiency of security, if obtained.
(3)
The foreman shall not get release of the security in full until all the liabilities under the chit are discharged.
V. Mode of conducting the chit
(1)
The Subscriber who is to get the prize at any instalment shall be determined by lot or by auction at the time and place
specified in Article III.
(Here specify the smallest fraction of a ticket, the prize for which will be determined by lot or by auction, and the time
allowed for each purpose.)
(2)
Where the prize is to be determined by auction, ticket, of fraction thereof shall be auctioned for a sum not less than the
chit amount minus foreman's commission, and the subscriber who bids for the highest discount not exceeding 30% of
the total amount of the chit shall be entitled to have it confirmed in his name.
Note:- Where a fraction of a ticket is auctioned, the subscriber who bids it for the highest discount is entitled to have
confirmed in his name at the same rate as many such fractions as he wished to bid.
(3)
In case where the subscribers are not prepared to bid any ticket or fraction thereof where the discount is not sufficient to
meet the foreman's commission, the subscriber who is entitled to the prize amount shall be determined by lot. The
subscriber so determined shall be deemed to be the prize subscriber who shall be entitled to the chit amount for his
ticketless foreman's commission for that ticket.
(4)
A defaulter subscriber shall not be entitled to take part in the proceedings.
(5)
If for any reason the subscriber is unable to take part in the proceedings, he may in writing authorise an agent in that
behalf. Such agent shall have all the rights and privileges of a subscriber at such proceedings.
VI. Mode of payment of each instalment.
(1)
Every subscriber shall on the date of each instalment pay to the foreman the amount due for his ticket for each such
instalment and get a receipt' in that behalf from the foreman.
Page 23/39
----- PAGE 24 -----
Chit Funds (Rajasthan) Rules, 1989
(2)
In the case of a prized subscriber, if the amount due from him for a particular instalment is not paid on the date of that
instalment, it shall be paid within (here mention weeks or months) with interest at (here specify the rate failing which it
shall be competent to the foreman to realise from the ...................... ... defaulter in a lumpsum all the future subscriptions
due from him together with the interest due thereon and other incidental expenses.
(3)
In the case of a non-prized subscriber, if the amount due from him for a particular instalment is not paid on the date of
that instalment, it shall be paid within (here mention weeks or months) with interest at (here specify the rate) failing
which it shall be open to the foreman to remove him from the list of subscribers and have another person substituted for
such defaulter subscriber. The foreman shall duly inform the defaulter subscriber of the action taken against him.
Note:- Under clause (2) and (3) the period within which the amount shall be paid and the rate at which interest due
thereon shall be paid may be such as shall not be consistent with the provision of the Act or any law for the time being in
fore.
(4)
A non-prized defaulting subscriber shall be entitled to the amount paid by him and the discount due to him on his
executing an acknowledgement in writing at the time the substituted subscriber draws the prize amount. If the defaulter
subscriber fails to obtain the amount due to him, the foreman shall deposit the same in the approved bank. If the
foreman fails to pay such subscriber, the amount so due to him on the due, date, it shall be competent for such
subscriber to realise such amount with interest permissible under the law for the time being in force.
VII. Procedure for receiving the prize amount by a prized subscriber.-
(1)
A prized subscriber or his nominee shall receive from the foreman the prize amount within (here specify the period) after
furnishing to the satisfaction of the foreman sufficient security for the payment of future subscriptions.
(2)
In case the prized subscriber or his nominee fails to receive the prize amount after furnishing sufficient security the
foreman shall deposit the amount in the approved bank and inform the prized subscriber of that fact.
(3)
In case the amount so deposited is not sufficient for the payment of future subscriptions, it shall be competent security
the foreman to realise from such prized subscriber such amount as may be deficient together with the interest due
thereon and all other incidental charges.
(4)
In case there remains and portion of the amount deposit after paying the future subscriptions and other charges such
portion shall be payable by the foreman to the prized subscriber after the termination of the chit, failing which it shall be
competent to the prized subscriber or nominee to realise from the foreman such portion as remains together with the
interest due thereon from the date of termination of the chit.
(5)
If at any time after the prize amount is deposited in an approved bank, the prized subscriber or his nominee furnishes
sufficient security, the foreman shall withdraw the amount so deposited and pay amount due from him for the payment of
the instalments prior to the date on which the security is furnished.
(6)
If the foreman fails to pay the prize amount to the prized subscriber or his nominee furnishing sufficient it shall be
competent to such subscriber or nominee to realise from the foreman the prize amount together with the interest due
thereon from the date of furnishing such security.
VIII. Disbursement of discount.-
The discount for every ticket auctioned shall be distributed equally between the prized and non-prized subscriber after
deducting therefrom the foreman's commission.
IX. Foreman's commission and the instalment at which the foreman is to get the prize.-
(1)
(Here specify the date and number of instalment at which the foreman is to get the prize) first and the last instalment not
being subject to auction, the subscribers shall be liable to pay the full amount of their tickets.
(2)
Page 24/39
----- PAGE 25 -----
Chit Funds (Rajasthan) Rules, 1989
Here specify the rate per cent of foreman's commission and the total amount of commission chargeable on the chit
amount.
Note:- Any other amount agreed to by the subscribers for any other purpose may also be specified here.
X. Transfer how to be effected.-
(1)
It shall not be competent to any subscriber his rights in a chit except with the consent in writing of the foreman provided
that no such consent shall be necessary in the case of transfer by a subscriber whose name has been removed by the
foreman from the list of subscribers for default of payment of subscriptions. The transferee (whether he, is already a
subscriber or not) shall be entitled to no more rights than the transfer had in the chit in respect of the ticket or fraction
thereof is transferred.
(2)
No transfer of the rights-of a foreman to receive subscription from the prized subscribers shall be made without the
previous sanction in writing of the Registrar of chits. Any such transfer shall, if it defeats or delays a non-prized
subscriber, be avoidable at the instance of such subscriber.
XI. Balance sheet and subscriber's right to examine chit records.-
(1)
On termination of a chit, the foreman shall prepare balance sheet containing a summary of the assets and liabilities of
the chit and giving such particulars as will disclose the nature of the assets and liabilities and how the value of the
assets has been arrived at. Such balance sheet shall be made available for auditing by the auditors specified in rule 29
and a certificate of such auditing shall be received by the foreman kept by him.
(2)
The foreman shall make available for examination by the subscribers all the chit records between (here specify the time
on all the dates of the draw).
XII. Banks where chit money may be deposited. -
(Here specify the name of the approved bank(s), the foreman proposed to deposit chit money).
XIII. Miscellaneous.-
(1)
The subscriber who gets his prize at the last instalment shall be entitled to the chit amount less the foreman's
commission. The foreman shall pay up such amount within (here specify the period) after the date of termination of the
chit failing which the prized subscriber shall be competent to realise the amount from the foreman together with the
interest due thereon from the date aforesaid.
(2)
Any amount due to the foreman from any subscriber on account of the chit shall be first charge on the subscriptions paid
by such subscriber. Similarly, the security and all chit moneys deposited by the foreman shall be liable for discharging
any amount due from the foreman to the subscriber.
(3)
Receipt shall be granted for all payments by the foreman to the subscribers or by the subscribers to the foreman.
(4)
The chit amount shall in no case be enhanced, but if necessary it may be reduced.
(5)
The foreman shall convene a meeting on the requesting in writing of not less than 25 percent of the number of
non-prized and unpaid prized subscribers for making any alteration in the chit agreement not inconsistent with the
provisions of the Act and the Rules made thereunder.
(6)
If for any default of the foreman, the conduct of the chit is not continued, the foreman shall pay to the non-prized
subscribers their contributions including the discount with (here specify the period), failing which it shall be competent to
such subscribers to realise the amount together with the interest due thereon from the foreman or from all or any of the
following assets:
(a)
The security given or deposited by the foreman;
(b)
Page 25/39
----- PAGE 26 -----
Chit Funds (Rajasthan) Rules, 1989
Other properties belonging to the foreman;
(c)
The future subscriptions due to the foreman from the prize subscribers.
(7)
In case where the foreman holds tickets as an ordinary subscriber in addition to the tickets of which he is entitled to the
prize without deduction of the discount, he shall not have any more rights or privileges than the other subscribers have
in the chit.
When the foreman bids such tickets, he shall furnish sufficient security for the payment of further subscriptions as
required by the Act and the Rules made thereunder.
(8)
If before the termination of chit, the foreman dies or otherwise becomes unable to conduct the chit.
(i)
Here specify the arrangements made for the conduct of chit.
(ii)
In such a case any one or more of the non-prized subscribers authorized by a special resolution may, in the absence of
any provision in this chit agreement for the future conduct of the chit taken the place of the foreman and have the right to
continue the chit to make suitable arrangements for the future conduct of the chit.
(9)
Here specify any other provisions that may be agreed to such as payment of interest or penalty, if any, payable or any
default in the payment of stipulated instalments etc.
(10)
Subscribers who have affixed their signature hereunder agreed to the above articles.
S.No.
Name and Full address of subscriber
No. of tickets taken
Subscribers signature and date
Name, signature and address of witness
1.2.3.4.5.6.7.etc.
Foreman
Form IX
(See Section 16 and Rule 16)
Notice to subscribers of Chit Number of
Sir,
This is to inform you that the.........draw in monthly/quarterly/half yearly/yearly Chit No......../ ........ in which you are one of
the subscribers will be held on............day........ (Month), ......at...... A.M/P.M. at........... (Ad dress).........You may kindly
make it convenient to be present at the draw in person or by your duty authorised agent.
Yours faithfully,
Secretary
For and on behalf of (Foreman)
Form X
(Application for permission to furnish security for conducting,the Chit).
(See Section 20 and Rule 18)
The Registrar of Chits,
...................
Dear Sir,
I/We propose to give the under noted security in respect of the chit proposed to be started by me/us, the certificate for
commencement of which was granted by you on ......(Vide No........ dated .........) Other particulars are also given below:
-
1. Name and address of the applicant
2. Age and occupation
3. Chit Air fount
Page 26/39
----- PAGE 27 -----
Chit Funds (Rajasthan) Rules, 1989
4. Details of cash/Government Security/any other movable security offered as security
5. Details of immovable properties 1. ..........district.............
Sub District..........
Taluka...............
Village....S.No.....
Area etc............
2. -do-
6. Rights of the applicant over the property
7. Market value of the property
8. Details of prior encumbrances if any on the property
9. Movable and immovable properties belonging solely to the applicant (to be shown separately)
10. Whether the applicant has any debt and if so, the amount of such debt
11. Whether the applicant has conducted any chit before and if so, whether there is any subsisting liability under the
same.
Strike out or delete, whatever is not applicable. Insert such designation(s) as may be appropriate.
Form XI
Certificate of sufficiency of security
(See Rule 18)
Office of the Registrar of Chits,
................
Place :
Date :
In the case of
1. Cash/Government security/other movable security.
I hereby certify that I am satisfied that the amount/Government security/other security (to be specified) mentioned herein
and deposited in an approved bank/transferred in my name is a adequate and that the same can be accepted under
Section 20 of the Chit Funds Act, 1982 (Central Act No. 40 of 1982).
2. Security of immovable property.
I hereby certify that the valuation of the properties as given in the application dated ..........filed by the
foreman/subscriber-foreman is correct, and that it can be accepted under section 20 of the Chit Funds Act, 1982.
(Seal)
Signature of Registrar of Chits.
Strike out or delete, whatever is not applicable.
Form No. XII
(See Section 20(3) & Rule 20)
Application for the substitution of the security.
Place :
Date :
The Registrar of Chits,
..................................
Dear Sir,
I/We propose to give the under noted security in substitution of the original security for proper conduct of the chit for the
commencement of which a certificate has been granted by you (Vide No.........dated......).
Certain other particulars are also given below:
1.
Name of foreman
2.
Age and occupation if the foreman is not firm or a company
3.
The Office in which the chit agreement of the chit has been
registered and the number and year of registration
Page 27/39
----- PAGE 28 -----
Chit Funds (Rajasthan) Rules, 1989
4.
Chit Amount
5.
Details of the original security given on
6.
Details of all movable & immovable properties belonging
solely to the applicant
7.
Whether the applicant has any debt and if so, the amount of any
such debt and to whom they are due.
8.
Details of Government Security/Other securities offered as
substituted security.
I/We hereby declare that the information and particulars furnished herein are true and correct to the best of my/our
knowledge, information and belief.
Your's faithfully,
Chairman
Secretary
Signature(s)
for and on behalf of- - - -
Strike out/delete whatever is not applicable.
Insert the designations as may be appropriate to the applicant.
(Decision of Registrar)
(Seal)
Signature of Registrar)
Form XIII
(See Section 23 and Rule 25)
Form of Registrar of subscribers to be maintained.
Office where the chit agreement of the chit is registered .............
The registration number and year of registration of chit agreement of the chit............
Serial Number According to Chit Agreement
Name and full address of the subscriber
Date of signing the chit agreement
Date of receipt of the copy of the chit agreement
by subscriber
Chit subscribe No. of tickets.
Rs.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
Assignment
Name and address of the assignee
Date of Assignment
Number & fraction of tickets
Amount Rs.
Date on which the foreman recognised the
assignment.
7.
8.
Page 28/39
----- PAGE 29 -----
Chit Funds (Rajasthan) Rules, 1989
9.
10.
11.
Substitution
Reason for the removal of subscriber
Date of removal
Name and address of the substituted subscriber
Date of Substitution
Number and fraction of tickets
Amt. Rs
Date of intimation of the substitution to the
removed subscriber
Remarks
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
Form XIV
(See Section 23 and Rule 25)
Office where the chit agreement of the chit is registered.........
Registration number of the chit agreement............
Section I - Receipts and payments in respect of subscriber:
Number of subscriber
:
Name of subscriber
:
Number of tickets fake
:
Chit amount
: Rs.
Ledger
Date
Number of instalment
On what account received or paid by the Foreman
Amount of subscription for each instalment
Dividend due the subscriber for each instalment
1
2
3
4
5
Amount paid by Subscriber
Amount received back by subscriber
General number in the day book
Signature of
Remarks
Share Amount
Page 29/39
----- PAGE 30 -----
Chit Funds (Rajasthan) Rules, 1989
Interest
Subscriber
Foreman
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
Section II- Deposit and withdrawal account of the Foreman- - -
Name of the bank in which money is deposited - - - -
Date
For what purpose deposited or withdrawn
Amount deposited Rs.
Interest accruing Rs.
Balance after each transaction Rs.
1
2
3
4
5
Amount withdrawn Rs.
Balance Rs.
Number in the day book
Signature of the foreman
Remarks
6
7
8
9
10
Form XV
(See Section 23 and Rule 25)
Form of the day book to be maintained
Office where the chit agreement of the chit is registered........
Registration number of the chit agreement..........
Day book
Date
General number
On what account received or paid
Receipts
Subscriptions
Interest
With drawal from bank
Other items
Total receipt
1
2
3
4
Page 30/39
----- PAGE 31 -----
Chit Funds (Rajasthan) Rules, 1989
5
6
7
8
Expenditure
Reference to receipt in the receipt
book
Amount paid to subscriber
Foreman's commissions
Deposit in the bank
Other item
Total expenditure
9
10
11
12
13
14
Rs.
Rs.
Rs.
Rs.
Rs.
Balance
Reference to the page number of the voucher in
the file of voucher
Signature of foreman
Remarks
15
16
17
18
Rs.
Note:- (1) The balance should be struck in column (15) at the close of each day' the monthly total of receipts and
expenditure shall be struck at the end of each month.
(2)
In column (2) each transaction shall be assigned a serial number. There shall be one separate set of serial numbers for
each calendar year.
(3)
If any amount is received from or paid to more than one subscriber at a time the amount paid to or received from each
subscribers should be entered as a separate item.
(4)
If more than one amount is received from or paid to the subscriber at a time each amount to or received from the
subscriber should be entered as separate item.
Form XVI
(See Section 23 and Rule 23)
Form of the Receipt book to be maintained
Original
Receipts
Serial Number
Duplicate
Page 31/39
----- PAGE 32 -----
Chit Funds (Rajasthan) Rules, 1989
Received from...........to the credit of............the amounts detailed below in respect of the chit agreement registered under
number......of........19 .
Payment for current instalment
Rs.
P.
Arrears of subscription (with details)
:
Fees for inspection of records
:
Other receipts (to be specified)
:
:
Total
_______________
(In words Rupees ---------paisa---------)
Date:
For
and on behalf of firearm
Strike out/delete whatever is not applicable. Insert the designation (s) as may be appropriate to the applicant.
Form XVII
(See Section 64 and Rule 45)
Application for reference of a dispute of a dispute to arbitration before the Registrar/Additional/Joint/Deputy/ Assistant
Registrar :
1
2.
Name
Occupation
Name
Occupation
Age
Address
Age
Address
Disputants
Versus
1
2.
Name
Occupation
Name
Occupation
Age
Address
Age
Address
Opponents
(Here give full particulars of the claim or the facts of the case constituting the cause of action when it arose etc.)
The disputant/disputants prays/pray as under: -
.......................................................................................................................................................
In support of the above claim or relief sought I/We enclose documents and papers as per the list annexed hereto.
Date :
Page 32/39
----- PAGE 33 -----
Chit Funds (Rajasthan) Rules, 1989
Signed.......................
Disputant/Disputants
I/We.............disputant/disputants declare that the facts stated above are true to the best of my/our knowledge and belief.
Date :
Signed (1)
(2)
(3)
Disputants.
Filled in the office of......on..........
Note:- 1. In case there are more disputants or Opponents their names, addresses, ages, and occupations should also
be mentioned.
2. In disputes relating to monetary claims, the disputants should state the precise amount claimed but where this cannot
be exactly ascertained the disputants shall state the approximate amount claimed.
3. When the disputant-foreman is a company/co-operative society or a partnership firm, a copy of the resolution of its
Board of Directors or as the case may be Managing Committee shall accompany the application.
Form XVIII
(See Section 71 and Rule 54)
Proclamation to be issued at the time of the issue for a certificate.
A. In the case of immovable property :
Whereas ......................(Judgment-creditor) has obtained an award under Section 69 of the Chit Funds Act, 1982
(Central Act No. 40 of 1982) for an amount of Rs..........against...........(Judgment-debtor) and proposes to execute the
same by sale of the undermentioned property of the said Judgment debtor and whereas the aid-judgment creditor has
obtained a certificate dated........for execution of the award under section 71 of the said Act.
Notice is hereby given that any private transfer or delivery of or encumbrance or charge on, the property made or
created after the issue of the certificate shall be null and void against the said judgment creditor under section 72 of the
Act aforesaid.
Description of the property
Date of Award or order
Names of the Parties against whom award or order
has been passed and Certificate under section 71 has been issued
Survey No. or House No.
Name of the village or town etc.
Area
Assessment or other taxes
Other description of the property such as
boundries etc.
Remarks
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
There notice shall be proclaimed at some place on or adjacent to such property by beat of drum or other customary
mode, and a copy of the said notice shall be fixed on a conspicuous part of the property and upon a conspicuous part of
the village chavide and also where the property as land paying revenue to the State Government in the office of the
Collector of the District in which the land is situated.
Place........
Date.........
Page 33/39
----- PAGE 34 -----
Chit Funds (Rajasthan) Rules, 1989
Registrar of chits
B. In the case of movable property a similar notice may be given with necessary changes as to the description of the
property. A copy of the notice shall be delivered to the judgment-debtor.
Form XIX
(See rule 55(5))
Certificate for transfer of property.
In the case of immovable property.
Whereas in execution of the award made section 69 of the Chit Funds Act, 1982 (Central Act No. 40 of 1982) in favour
of.........(Hereinafter referred to as the judgment-creditor) an order was passed on the.......day of.....19......for sale of the
under mentioned property of the person or persons (Debtor or debtors).
And whereas the Court/the Collector/the Registrar is satisfied that the said property cannot be sold for want of buyers.
It i& hereby ordered that the right, title and interest of the debtor in the said property shall vest in the said judgment-
creditor and shall be delivered to him subject to the terms and condition laid down in the Schedule hereto annexed.
Description of the property
Survey No.
Areas and assessment
Nature of right, title and interest of the
defaulter
Details of encumbrances to which property is
subject
Schedule
The said property is transferred to the judgment-creditor in full/partial satis-faction of the amount due to him from the
debtor.
Give under my hand and seal of the Court/Collector/Registrar this....... day of..........
Court/Collector/Registrar of Chits
In the case of movable property:
(The form shall be similar with necessary changes as regards the description and the delivery of the property).
Form XX
Form of letter of authority
(See Sub-Rule (c) of Rule 2)
I...........who/am/is.....of M/s........Designation being a foremen of the chit series No........registered under registration
No............... hereby appoint Shri.......as my authorised representative to attend on my/our/behalf in the matters
connected with the above chit to produce account and documents and to receive on my/our/behalf any notice or
document issued and to take all necessary steps in the matter.
The said Shri..........is also hereby authorised to act on my behalf of the said in the said matter.
I/We agree to ratify all acts done by the said Shri.......in pursuance of this authority.
Place :
Date :
Signature
Status
Form XXI
(See Rule 28(2))
Name of the Foreman
(i)
Office where the bye-law of the
(i)
Registration number and year of the bye-law of the Chit.
(ii)
Date of which the balance sheet was prepared
(ii)
Name of the Foreman.
Page 34/39
----- PAGE 35 -----
Chit Funds (Rajasthan) Rules, 1989
(iii)
Number of Installments conducted till date of balance sheet
(iii)
Chit amounts.
(iv)
Number of installments
1. Receipts and Expenditure
Receipt
Current year
Total including previous years
Expenditure
Current year
Total including previous years
Rs.
P.
Rs.
P.
Rs.
P.
Rs.
P.
1.
Subscription paid by the prized and non-
1.
Prize amounts disbursed to prized subscribers
2.
Receipts under dividend
2.
Interest paid to subscribers
3.
Interest realised from subscribers
3.
Amounts paid to defaulter non prized subscribers
4.
Contributions by substituted or assignee non-prized
subscribers in respect of dues of defaulters
4.
Amount contributed by Foreman for payment of the prize amount
5.
Any other amount received from subscribers
5.
Foreman's commission
6.
Amount contributed by the Foreman for payment of prize amount
6.
Amounts on account of interest realised for delayed payment
and forfeited dividend
7.
Interest accrued from investments
7.
Dividend paid
Page 35/39
----- PAGE 36 -----
Chit Funds (Rajasthan) Rules, 1989
8.
Other items (details to be annexed)
8.
Sinking Fund
9.
Investments withdrawn
9.
Other items (details to be annexed)Total Expenditure &
- - - - -
10.
Investments made
Grand Total :
Grand Total :
II. Statement of Assets and Liabilities
Assets
Rs. P.
Liabilities
Rs. P.
1.
Amount due on account of arrears of subscription due from
prized subscribers
1.
Amount paid by non-prized subscribers (Including dividend)
2.
Amounts due from the subscribers including the Foreman towards
future subscriptions
2.
Amounts due to non-prized defaulter subscribers
3.
Interest due from defaulter subscribers
3.
Arrears of prize amount due to prized subscribers
4.
Investment in bank (Including interest thereon)
4.
The amounts due to the Foreman towards contributions made by
him for payment of prize amount
5.
Other items (Details to be annexed)
5.
Other items (details to be annexed)
6.
Sinking Fund
6.
Sinking Fund
Total :
Total :
III. Details of Investments
Receipts
Rs. P.
1.
Page 36/39
----- PAGE 37 -----
Chit Funds (Rajasthan) Rules, 1989
Investment made on account of the failure on the part of
prized subscribers to receive the prized amount due to them.
2.
Investment made on account of lump-sum collection made from
defaulter prized subscribers
3.
Amount deposited for payment to non-prized defaulter
subscribers.
4.
Investment on account of other items of receipts of the chit
(details to be annexed).
Total :
IV. Assessment of value of Investment
1. Investment in pass book Account Number.
2. Against due from the future instalments of the chit as per bonds, etc. obtained for........instalments of the chit including
the arrears of Rs due on account of defaulting instalments from defaulters.
3. Balance of contributions due from the Foreman on account of Prize amount received by him.
Note:. - To facilitate audit of balance sheets, the following statement of details should be annexed by the Foreman to the
balance sheet.
(i)
Statement of details of receipts and expenditures for each instalments,
(ii)
Of disbursement,
(iii)
Of the prize amount in respect of each instalment, and
(iv)
Statement of details of arrears due on the date of the preparation of the tlance sheet from the prized and non-prized
subscribers.
Particulars of documents to be entered here.
Security offered by the Foreman, hypothecation bonds, etc. executed under section 20, and hypothecation bands etc.
obtained from the prized subscribers under section 31 of the Act.
V. Certificate by Foreman
I certify that the above accounts have been prepared correctly and that they contain a true and complete statement of
the affairs of the chit.
Date :
Name and Signature of the Foreman.
VI. Certificate by Auditor
Certified that I have examined the chit books and records maintained in respect of the chit........the bye-laws of which
have been registered in .... ... as number .........conducted by Foreman.........and have verified the entries in the accounts
with the books. The accounts are drawn up in conformity with the provisions of the Chit Funds Act, 1982 and the Rules
framed thereunder.
Date :
Name and Signature of the Auditor
Appendix - II
(See Sections 62, 63 and Rule 42)
Vide Notification No. F. 6(37) FD/R & AI/84 dated 29-7-1989. Published in Rajasthan Government Gazette Extraordinary
Part 4(C)(1) dated 30-6-1979 Page 29
Levy of fees under sections 62 and 63 of the Chit Funds Act, 1982 (Central Act No. 40 of 1982)
Tables of Fees
Rs. P.
1.
Page 37/39
----- PAGE 38 -----
Chit Funds (Rajasthan) Rules, 1989
For the applications of previous sanction to commence or
conduct a chit under sub-section (2) of section 4.
100.00
2.
For filling a chit agreement under sub-section (1) of section
(7)
10.00
3.
For issues of certificate of commencement of chit business
under sub-section (2) of section 9.
50.00
4.
For filling of certificate under sub-section (2) of Section
10.
10.00
5.
For filling a copy of the minutes of the proceedings under
section 17.
10.00
6.
For every application for registration of an alteration,
addition or omission of any provision in a chit agreement under
sub-rule (1) of rule 14.
10.00
7.
A. fee of rupee one shall be levied in each case for filing
with the Registrar
(a) A copy of each entry relating to the removal of defaulting
subscriber under sub-section (3) of section 28.
10.00
(b) a true copy of each entry relating to the substitution of
a subscriber under sub-section (2) of section 29.
5.00
(c) A true copy of entry relating to transfer of the rights of
foreman under section 37.
5.00
(d) A copy of entry relating to transfer of non-prized
subscriber's rights under section 37.
5.00
(e) A true copy of assets of non-prized subscribers and unpaid
prized subscribers for withdrawal of a foreman under section 41.
10.00
(f) A true copy of consent of all non-prized or unpaid prized
subscribers to the termination of chit under section 41.
10.00
(g) Each partition protesting against or objecting to the
orders passed or proposed to be passed by Registrar.
50.00
8.
If the balance sheet is audited under section 24 or the chit
books or records inspected by the registrar of any officer
Page 38/39
----- PAGE 39 -----
Chit Funds (Rajasthan) Rules, 1989
authorised by the Registrar under section 46 or the accounts
books and other records of the chit audited by the Chit Auditor
at the premises of the foreman or outside the officer of the
Registrar, for each such auditor inspection.
100.00
9.
For inspection of one or more records relating to a chit under
section 62 for each inspection.
10.00
10.
For a copy of extract of the records relating to a chit
furnished under section 62.
5.00
11.
For a certified copy of any order, judgment of award made by
the Registrar or his nominee under section 69.
10.00
12.
For every appeal to the state Government under section 74.
100.00
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 39/39