
----- PAGE 1 -----
Rules of Admission to Ayurvedic Colleges in Rajasthan, 1991
Rules of Admission to Ayurvedic Colleges in Rajasthan, 1991
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/183267101/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Rajasthan - Act
Rules of Admission to Ayurvedic Colleges in Rajasthan, 1991
RAJASTHAN
India
Rules of Admission to Ayurvedic Colleges in Rajasthan, 1991
Rule RULES-OF-ADMISSION-TO-AYURVEDIC-COLLEGES-IN-RAJASTHAN-1991 of 1991
Published on 29 July 1991
Commenced on 29 July 1991
[This is the version of this document from 29 July 1991.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Rules of Admission to Ayurvedic Colleges in Rajasthan, 1991
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 67 Dated 29.7.1991 - Rajasthan Gazette Part 4(C), dated 7-5-1992, page 152
G.S.R. 67. - The Government of Rajasthan issues the following instructions for the admission of candidates to various
Ayurvedic Colleges in Rajasthan in pursuance of O.329-N-19 of University of Rajasthan.
1.
Number of Seats.
- The total number of admission to the four Ayurvedic Colleges in Rajasthan will not be more than 220 per year.
2.
Reservations.
(a)
2 seats are reserved at Madan Mohan Malaviya Ayurvedic College, Udaipur for students nominated by Government of
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
Rules of Admission to Ayurvedic Colleges in Rajasthan, 1991
India.
(b)
8% seats are reserved for natural born candidates belonging to Scheduled Caste and 6% for natural born candidates
belonging to Scheduled Tribes notified in the presidential Order for the State of Rajasthan and who fulfil condition as laid
down in Rule 3 below. These reservations in each category will also include the natural born candidates belonging to the
Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribes, who are admitted on merit against general seats.
A candidate must produce a certificate signed by an officer not below the rank of District Magistrate/Additional District
Magistrate/S.D.M. in Proof of his/her being a natural born member of Scheduled Castes/Tribes as notified in the
Presidential Order for the State of Rajasthan and that he/she fulfils condition as laid down in Rule 3 below. The
reservation mentioned above can be interchanged. If sufficient number of candidates are not available to fill up the seats
reserved for either category, i.e. natural born Scheduled Castes, natural born Scheduled Tribes.
(c)
10% of the seats excluding seats reserved in clause (a) above are reserved for girl candidates. If eligible and suitable
girl candidates from natural born scheduled castes/Tribes are not available, these seats will be filled by the male
candidates of natural born Scheduled Castes/Tribes.
(d)
In case the reserved seats are not filled in a particular category, the unfilled seats will be transferred to general seats.
3.
Eligibility.
- A candidate must fulfill the following conditions for admission to the Ayurvedic Colleges, however, for those, who are
covered under category (a) or rule 2, for them, Sub-rule (a) of this rule will not be applicable.
(a)
(i)
The candidates must have studied for last three years of the qualifying examination continuously as a regular candidate
in a recognised institution in Rajasthan.
OR
(ii)
Natural Father/mother of the candidate has continuously resided in Rajasthan for a period of last 10 years and the
candidate has studied for atleast 5 years during this period in a recognised educational institution in Rajasthan.
OR
(iii)
The candidate is a Son/Daughter of serving or retired employee of (a) Government of Rajasthan including Officers of All
India Services born on the state cadre of Rajasthan or (b) Undertaking/Corporations/ Improvement Trust/Municipal
bodies duly constituted by Government of Rajasthan by an act of law or (c) any of the Universities in Rajasthan or
Secondary Board of Education (Rajasthan) provided that employee has put in atleast three years of service in the year
of the admission.
OR
(iv)
Candidate is a Son/daughter of a permanent employee of Indian Defence Service and the employee is either of
Rajasthan origin irrespective of his place of posting or is posted in Rajasthan at the time of last date of the application for
admission provided that in case of Defence Personnel from the Rajasthan origin, a certificate has to be submitted by
them from the employer to the effect that his State of origin is Rajasthan at the time of his entry into service.
(b)
Senior Higher Secondary Examination in Science (Biology) or with Sanskrit as an optional subject or Senior Upadhaya
examination (with English) of the Board of Secondary Education Rajasthan, or an examination recognised by the
University as equivalent there to.
(c)
He/She shall have to obtain at least 40% marks in each paper at the Pre-Ayurveda Test on the result of which above
admission to the Pre-Ayurveda course will be resulted:
Provided further that the candidates for admission to the Pre-Ayurveda course shall have completed the age of 17 years
on or before 1st October, 1991.
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
Rules of Admission to Ayurvedic Colleges in Rajasthan, 1991
Note. - 1. The relevant certificate which are based on eligibility of the candidate will have to be furnished by the
candidate.
2. The residence certificate wherever required will have to be duly signed by the District Magistrate of the concerned
District.
3. In case of serving personals where service, conditions resulted into eligibility, a certificate of the employer will have to
be submitted by the candidate.
4.
Pre-Ayurveda Test.
(a)
All candidates except these belonging to category (a) of Rule 2 will have to appear at the Pre-Ayurveda Test to be held
by the University of Rajasthan, Jaipur in the subjects and manner to be decided by the University. The candidates may
obtain guidelines for the Pre-Ayurveda Test Examination and Application Form for appearing at the examination from
the places notified by the University on payment of Rs.25/- in cash. Forms and guide lines can also be held by
registered post on payment of Rs. 35/- by I.P.O./D.D. addressed to the Registrar, University of Rajasthan, Jaipur from
the University. The Forms and guide lines by post will only be supplied from University Office.
Application Forms for P.A.T. Examination duly filled in by the candidate alongwith a fee of Rs. 100/- should be sent
directly to the Registrar, University of Rajasthan, Jaipur. This fees will also cover the fee for mark-sheet. The eligible
candidates will be admitted in the order of merit.
(b)
No application for admission will be considered unless it is accompanied by the following:-
(i)
Attested true copy of the mark-sheet of qualifying examination of the concerned University/Board.
(ii)
Attested true copy of High School/Higher Secondary/Upadhyaya Examination Certificate.
(iii)
Certificate regarding Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe if applicable.
Note. - 1. All the original certificates and mark-sheets alongwith Photostats attested copies must be brought at the time
of the interview.
2. Any application received after the prescribed date or incomplete in any respect shall be rejected without giving any
notice to the candidate.
(c)
(1) The eligible candidates will be admitted in the order of merit for the general as well as reserved seats excepting the
seat belonging to the category (a) of Rule 2.
Judged on the basis of marks secured at the Pre-Ayurveda Test. Subject to passing the qualifying examination prior the
date of Test.
(2)
Candidates securing equal number of marks in the Pre-Ayurveda Test will be admitted in the following order of
preference:
(i)
One who has secured more marks in aggregate in the qualifying examination.
(ii)
Among the candidates securing equal number of marks in aggregate in the qualifying examination, one who borned
earlier.
(d)
Interview by Admission Board.-Candidates eligible for admission shall be called for interview. The admission Board will
be consisting of following:-
1. The Director, National Institute of Ayurveda, Jaipur                        (Convener)
2. The Principal, Madan Mohan Malviya Government Ayurvedic College, Udaipur.
3. The Principal, Shri Parshuram Puria Rajasthan Ayurvedic College, Sikar.
4. The Principal, Shri Bhanwar Lal Dungad Ayuived Vishwabharti, Sardarshahar.
5.
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
Rules of Admission to Ayurvedic Colleges in Rajasthan, 1991
The Principal, Shri Mohta Ayurvedic College, Sadulpur.
6.
Dy. Registrar (Exam.I)
7.
The Administrator Officer (Aca.), N.I.A., Jaipur                              (Member-Secretary)
Interviews will be taken in about 10-15 days after the Pre-Ayurveda Test result is declared. The list of candidates called
for interview will be put on the Notice Board of the National Institute of Ayurveda, Jaipur three days before the date of
interview. The candidates found unsuitable by the Admission Board will be rejected. Candidates called for interview
must bring with them the following documents in original alongwith Photostats copies. Otherwise they will not be allowed
to appear before the Admission Board and right of admission will be cancelled without any notice. The candidate who
failed in the qualifying examination, even if he has been declared passed in the Pre-Ayurveda Test will not be eligible for
admission in the Ayurveda Course.
1. Original marks-Sheet of passing the qualifying examination.
2. Original Marks-sheet or certificate of the High School/ Higher Secondary/Upadhyaya.
3. Certificate of eligibility for admission.
4. Certificate from the Principal of College/Head of Institution last attended.
5. Parent/Guardian’s Certificate.
6. Parent/Guardian’s Income Certificate.
7. Certificate regarding Migration, if applicable.
(e)
Allotment of Place of Study. - The Admission Board, after duly considering the place of residence and preference given
by the candidates in his/her application shall allot selected candidates to the various Ayurvedic Colleges at its discretion.
(f)
Medical Examination. - A provisional list of candidates selected by the Admission Board will be put on the Notice board
of the National Institute of Ayurveda, Jaipur. No intimation will be given to the candidates individually. All candidates
provisionally selected will be examined by the Medical Board, appointed by the Director, National Institute of Ayurveda,
by the Principal of the respective Ayurvedic College on the basis of criteria involved for medical examination by the
Principal regarding their general and physical fitness for medical studies. The candidates found unsuitable will be
rejected. The decision of the Board in this respect will be final.
5.
The Government reserves the right to admission of any candidate without assigning any reason.
6.
Admission of the candidates, who have passed qualifying examination from a University/Board of the State other than
Rajasthan will be provisional till the Eligibility Certificate is issued.
7.
If for reasons to be recorded in writing the Admission Board suspects that a particular candidate has obtained a
certificate by misrepresenting facts, the matter will be referred to the concerned D.M. on receipt of the enquiry report, the
Admission Board would take the final decision regarding the admission of the candidate.
Note. - Any person other than the parents of the candidate can become guardian, only if the parents of the candidates
are not alive or have been declared insane.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4