
----- PAGE 1 -----
The General Nursing Training Course Rules, 1990
The General Nursing Training Course Rules, 1990
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/100486141/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Rajasthan - Act
The General Nursing Training Course Rules, 1990
RAJASTHAN
India
The General Nursing Training Course Rules, 1990
Rule THE-GENERAL-NURSING-TRAINING-COURSE-RULES-1990 of 1990
Published on 7 May 1992
Commenced on 7 May 1992
[This is the version of this document from 7 May 1992.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The General Nursing Training Course Rules, 1990
Published vide Notification No. F. 16 (2) M & H/Gr. 3/87. G.S.R. 69. dated January 16, 1991, Published in Rajasthan
Rajpatra Part 4 (ga). dated 7-5-1992, p. 162 to 166.
[Notification No. F. 16 (2) M & H/Gr. 3/87. G.S.R. 69. dated January 16, 1991, Published in Rajasthan Rajpatra Part IV
(ga). dated 7-5-1992, p. 162 to 166.] - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 33 of the
Rajasthan Nurses, Midwives, Health Visitors and A. N. M. Registration Act, 1964 (Rajasthan Act No. 9 of 1964) the
State Government hereby makes the following rules for the General Nursing Training Course Admission, namely:-
1.
Short title and commencement.
- (i) These rules may be called General Nursing Training Course Rules, 1990.
(ii)
Page 1/5
----- PAGE 2 -----
The General Nursing Training Course Rules, 1990
They shall come into force with immediate effect.
2.
Duration of Course.
- The Course of General Nursing shall be of 3 years duration for male and female.
3.
Academic Session.
- Academic session shall be from 1st October to 30th September (including vacations and Examination). Admission will
be made once a year.
4.
Age.
- A male candidate for admission to the General Nursing Training Course must have attained the age of 17 years and
must not have attained the age of 28 years and a female candidate must have attained the age of 17 years and must not
have not attained the age of 34 years on October 1st of the year of admission for the training.
5.
Qualification.
(1)
A candidate for admission to the Course shall possess 1st year of the Three year's Degree Course under old scheme/
Senior Higher Secondary School Certificate under 10+2 scheme with Physics, Chemistry and Biology of a University
established by Law in India or of a recognised Board:
Provided that if candidates possessing the above subjects are not available then candidates of other subject may be
considered with combined merit list.
(2)
Working knowledge of Hindi written in Devanagri script and knowledge of Rajasthan culture.
6.
Medical Fitness.
- There should be satisfactory medical fitness report.
7.
Number of Seats.
- The annual intake capacity in each centre will be according to the number determined by the Government from time to
time. There shall be no separate centre for male and female candidates. Ratio for male and female at each training
centre shall be as determined by the Government from time to time.
8.
Admission.
- (i) Admission should be done on merit drawn amongst candidates applying for admission in the Institute on the basis of
percentage of marks obtained in the qualifying examination.
(ii)
16% seats shall be reserved for Scheduled Castes, 12% for Scheduled Tribes and 10% for candidates from IRDP
beneficiary families.
(iii)
In case there is more than one candidates of the same percentage of marks in the qualifying examination preference for
admission shall be given to the candidates who is older in age.
(iv)
In case of female candidates, if found pregnant at the time of Medical Examination, admission will not be given.
(v)
The trainee once admitted in the Institute in a district shall not be transferred to another Institute and he will be have to
complete his training in the Institute where he was originally admitted.
9.
Admission to in-service candidates.
- (i) In-service staff working under the Medical, Health and Family Welfare Department shall be eligible for admission
provided they fulfil prescribed qualification.
(ii)
Page 2/5
----- PAGE 3 -----
The General Nursing Training Course Rules, 1990
There shall be no deputation for Government servant, if selected. They shall have to take any leave which is permissible
to him/her.
(iii)
In-service candidates selected for the said course shall have to abide by the rules applicable to other non-service
candidates in the matter of discipline, leave attendance etc.
10.
Criteria for admission.
- (i) There shall be no reservation for in-service candidates.
(ii)
All the eligible candidates shall compete with the other candidates. However a weightage of tenure of service to in-
service candidates shall be given by addition of 1% marks for each completed year of continuous service done by the
candidate to the total percentage of marks obtained in the qualifying examination.
11.
Eligibilities for in-service candidates.
- (i) In-service candidates are eligible only after completion of 5 years service.
(ii)
There age limit shall extend upto 35 years as on 1st October of the training year. The educational qualification shall be
the same as those of direct recruitment.
(iii)
In-service candidates will have to apply on the same prescribed form obtained from concerned training centre. The
candidates shall have to submit his/her forms with service particulars duly verified by his/her controlling officer. He/She
can also send advance copy to authority concerned. It shall be considered by Selection Board but merit shall be decide
only after receiving the original application of the in-service applicant.
12.
Leave and Vacation.
- (i) All candidates may be sanctioned 30 days leave in each year of training by the head of Institution besides 10 days
sick leave in each year of training may also be sanctioned by the Head of the Deptt. Any preparatory leave for the
examination declared by the training centre shall be counted for the aforesaid training of candidates.
(ii)
No other kind of leave to female in-service candidates to which they are otherwise entitled will be admissible during the
training period.
13.
Attendance.
- (i) A candidate shall be eligible for admission to the examination if the Head of the centre certified that he/she has
attended not less than 75% of the formal instruction given on each subject during the training.
(ii)
Female candidates who become pregnant during the training period shall have to discontinue the training for a period of
3 months before expected date of delivery and 3-months after the date of delivery. She shall rejoin the training course
after this period and no relaxation in the required examination shall be given.
14.
Stipend.
- (i) Candidates shall be paid stipend at the rate prescribed by the Government from time to time and stipend will be paid
for a maximum period of total duration of the course.
(ii)
A candidates who fails to pass any examination, the stipend will be discontinued for the period till the candidates passes
that examination.
(iii)
The stipend of first three months will be released to candidates on passing of P. T. S. examination.
15.
Preliminary period.
- There shall be a P. T. S. examination for all the candidates after 12 weeks from the commencement of the course for
Page 3/5
----- PAGE 4 -----
The General Nursing Training Course Rules, 1990
assessment of the student ability to continue the course. Those who do not pass the P. T. S. examination will not be
allowed to continue the General Nursing Course.
16.
Bond.
- All the candidates shall have to execute a BOND to serve the Rajasthan Government in the district from where
admission was sought or in the district fed by the Institute for a period of 5 years after completion of training at the time
of admission, otherwise they are liable to deposit five years total salary for which they are trained.
17.
Fees.
- Each candidates shall have to deposit the following fees:-
(Amount in Rupees)
1. Admission Fees (To be charged only once)
50/-
2. Library and Reading fee (once a year)
50/-
3. Student Union fees (once a year)
10/-
4. Games fees (once a year)
20/-
5. Caution money (once only during period of training and is
refundable)
50/-
6. Examination Fees
As prescribed by the Rajasthan Nursing Council from
time to time.
18.
Procedure of Selection.
- (i) The Director, Medical and Health Services, Rajasthan Jaipur will invite applications from candidates for all training
centres every year in last week of August through one consolidated Advertisement in News papers. All the desirous
candidates will be required to submit their applications to the concerned Chief Medical and health Officer/Medical
Superintendent of Hospitals on prescribed forms obtained from the concerned officers personally or by post on payment
of Rs. 5/- only through Indian Postal Order. The candidates will also attach self addressed registered envelop for
selection/rejection intimation letter.
(ii)
No application shall be rejected for want of any document with the application form, before giving proper and timely
opportunity to the concerned candidates, by registered A/D letter.
19.
Selection Committee.
- The final selection will be done by a Committee consisting of the following:-
(I)
(i)
Medical Superintendent or his representative
or
Chief Medical and Health Officer
(ii)
Concerned Nursing Superintendent
(iii)
Senior most Nursing Tutor of the concerned training centre.
(iv)
Joint Director, Medical and Health Services of concerned zone.
(II)
Page 4/5
----- PAGE 5 -----
The General Nursing Training Course Rules, 1990
The senior most officer of the above Committee will act as Chairman.
20.
Call letters.
- The selected candidates will be intimated by Registered A/D letter by the concerned authority.
Minutes of the selection committee shall be drawn and communicated by the Chairman to the Government directly
within 3 days after the convened meeting.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 5/5