
----- PAGE 1 -----
Rajasthan Legislative Assembly (Officers and Members Emoluments and Pension) (Telephone Fa...
Rajasthan Legislative Assembly (Officers and Members Emoluments
and Pension) (Telephone Facility) Rules, 2005
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/73375495/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Rajasthan - Act
Rajasthan Legislative Assembly (Officers and Members Emoluments and Pension) (Telephone Facility) Rules, 2005
RAJASTHAN
India
Rajasthan Legislative Assembly (Officers and Members Emoluments and Pension) (Telephone Facility) Rules, 2005
Rule
RAJASTHAN-LEGISLATIVE-ASSEMBLY-OFFICERS-AND-MEMBERS-EMOLUMENTS-AND-PENSION-TELEPHONE-
FACILITY-RULES-2005 of 2005
Published on 15 July 2005
Commenced on 15 July 2005
[This is the version of this document from 15 July 2005.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Rajasthan Legislative Assembly (Officers and Members Emoluments and Pension) (Telephone Facility) Rules, 2005
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 34, dated 15.7.2005
Last updated 29 May, 2019
G.S.R. 34 - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 11 of the Rajasthan Legislative Assembly (Officers and
Members Emoluments and Pension) Act, 1956 (Rajasthan Act
No. 6 of 1957
), the State Government hereby makes the following rules, namely : -
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Rajasthan Legislative Assembly (Officers and Members Emoluments and Pension) (Telephone Fa...
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These Rules may by called the Rajasthan Legislative Assembly (Officers and Members Emoluments and Pension)
(Telephone Facility) Rules, 2005.
(2)
They shall come into force at once.
2.
Definitions.
- In these rules, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context otherwise requires:-
(a)
"Act" means the Rajasthan Legislative Assembly (Officers and Members Emoluments and Pension) Act, 1956
(Rajasthan Act
No. 6 of 1957
);
(b)
Words and expression used but not defined in these rules, shall have the same meaning as assigned to them in the Act.
3.
Telephone facilities to the Speaker, Deputy Speaker, Government Chief Whip, the Deputy Government Chief Whip and
the Leader of the Opposition.
- The telephone facilities provided to the Speaker, Deputy Speaker Government Chief whip, Deputy Government chief
Whip and the Leader of the Opposition under sub-section (9) of section 6A of the Act, at their residence shall be subject
to the following telephone calls:-
(i) Speaker
Unlimited
(ii) Deputy Speaker
Calls equal to the allowed to State Minister
(iii) Government Chief Whip
Calls equal to that allowed to Cabinet Minister
(iv) Deputy Government Chief Whip
Calls equal to that allowed to State Minister
(v) Leader of the Opposition
Calls equal to that allowed to Cabinet Minster
4.
Telephone facilities to Whips of racognised parties and Leaders of groups.
- The telephone facilities provided to the whips of recognized parties and Leaders of groups under section 7 of the Act at
their residence shall be subject to the following telephone calls:-
(i) Whips of recongnized parties
900 calls per two months:
(ii) Leader of groups:-
(a) Members from 2 upto 5
900 calls per two months.
(b) Members from 6 upto 10
1200 calls per two months.
(c) Members from 11 upto 20
1500 calls per two months.
(d) Members 21 and above
Calls equal to that allowed to State Minster
5.
Telephone facility to Chairman of Committees.
- The telephone facilities provided to the Chairman of Committee under section 9A of the Act, at their residence shall be
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Rajasthan Legislative Assembly (Officers and Members Emoluments and Pension) (Telephone Fa...
subject to the 900 telephone calls per two months.
6.
General.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules, the officers/members entitled to telephones facilities at their
residence under these rules equivalent to cabinet/State Minister shall not be entitled to claim telephone allowance as a
Member of Legislative Assembly under rule 3 of the Rajasthan Legislative Assembly Members (Telephone facility)
Rules, 1982.
(2)
If telephone calls exceed the limit as mentioned in rule 3, 4 and 5 as the case may be, the excess amount beyond the
limit shall be paid by the Officers/Members concerned.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3