
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/70138511/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
493
]
State of Rajasthan - Act
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
RAJASTHAN
India
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
Act 4 of 2003
Published on 31 March 2006
Commenced on 31 March 2006
[This is the version of this document from 31 March 2006.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
(Act
No. 4 of 2003
)
Last Updated 28th September, 2019
Statement of Objects and Reason - (Act No. 5 of 2016). - Clause (7) of Section  2 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax
Act, 2003 defines capital goods. Presently, there are doubts regarding inclusion of generating set in the definition of
capital goods. With a view to explain the situation, clause (7) of Section 2 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
is proposed to be amended by inserting an explanation.
Sub-section (3) of Section  13 of the Act provides time limit for grant of permission in change of principal place of
business outside the territorial jurisdiction of the present assessing authority. Presently, this time limit is 60 days, with a
Page 1/138
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
view to reduce this time limit, an amendment in sub-section (3) of Section 13 has been proposed.
Sub-section (5) of Section 24 of the Act provides that assessment should be made within two years from the end of the
relevant year. The process of online assessment has been introduced for the assessment year 2013-14 onwards.
Because of this change in the assessment procedure, the assessments for the year 2013-14 were started in the month
of August, 2015, therefore, the time limit for the assessment year 2013-14 has been proposed to be extended upto
31.07.2016.
Sub-section (3) of Section 33 of the Act provides time limit for disposal of application for rectification. With a view for
early disposal of such applications, an amendment in sub-section (3) of Section  33 is proposed to reduce this time limit
from one year to six months.
Section 51A of the Act empowers the State Government to waive penalty and interest in certain cases. Provisions of late
fee for delay in filing of return were introduced in the year 2011-12. The dealers were required to file hardcopy of the
acknowledgment of the returns submitted by them electronically. In many cases, hardcopy has not been filed or has
been filed late which has resulted in the imposition of late fee on such dealers. With a view to provide relief to such
dealers of the State, an amendment in Section 51-A is proposed so as to empower the State Government to waive late
fee in certain cases.
Section 53 of the Act provides provisions of refund in case any amount is refundable to the dealer. Sometimes excess
payment fir wrong payment is made while making online payment of tax through e-GRAS. Presently, this amount
becomes refundable only at the time of assessment, which causes liquidity problems to the dealers. With a view to
provide relief in such cases, a new sub-Section (3-A) in Section 53 is proposed to be inserted.
Statement of Objects and Reason - (Act
No. 13 of 2009
). - Sub-section (2) of Section 3 provides that dealers other than an importer or manufacturer, purchasing goods from
registered dealers of the State and whose turnover do not exceed rupees fifty lac in a year, can exercise option to make
payment of tax on his turnover at the notified rate. It is felt that in view of the intricacies involved, this facility should not
be granted to certain trades. With this objective in view, it is proposed1 to empower the State Government to exclude
dealer or class of dealers, as it may notify, from the purview of sub-section (2) of section 3.
Delay in disposal of the stay application by Deputy Commissioner (Appeals) defeats the very purpose of stay. To ensure
that stay applications are decided on priority basis, it is proposed to amend the existing provisions of sub-section (4) of
section 38 so that where the stay application is not decided within thirty days from its filing and the delay is not
attributable to the applicant, such application shall deemed to have been accepted subject to the condition of furnishing
of adequate security.
To motivate dealers to opt for quarterly assessment along with filing of returns electronically thereof, it is proposed to
provide incentive by way of granting provisional refund to the extent of fifty percent of refundable amount subject to
subsequent verification of the refundable amount. To give effect to this proposal, a proviso is proposed to be added in
sub-section (1) of section 53 of the Act.
The existing penal provisions for delay in filing of the returns by the dealer have failed to improve the compliance level in
filing of returns. Self assessment based on the returns is the basic theme of VAT, as such compliance in filing of return
has to be improved. It is therefore, proposed to substitute the existing provision of section 58 to provide higher penalities
for delay in filing of returns.
Section 73 of the Act enumerates provisions as to the audit of accounts of registered dealer. At present dealer who has
opted for payment of tax under sub-section (2) of section 3 or under section 5 or who files e-returns with prescribed
documents or submits returns and documents in soft copy to the assessing authority or the officer authorized by the
Commissioner, have been excluded from the purview of audit. In view of the genuine demand from various sectors for
being excluded from purview of audit, it is proposed to empower the State Government to notify any dealer or class of
dealers to be excluded from purview of audit under Section 73 of the Act. With this objective in view, the existing
sub-section (1) of section 73 is proposed to be amended.
As per existing provisions of sub-section (2) of section 77, a contractor is required to deposit tax collected by him,
however, when tax is collected less than the contracted amount then such contractor deposits the collected tax amount
and not the contracted amount. To remove this anomaly, sub-section (2) of section 77 of the Act, is proposed to be
substituted, It is also proposed to give retrospective effect to the proposed amendment from date of introduction of VAT,
i.e. with effect from April 1, 2006.
Page 2/138
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
Statement of Objects and Reasons - (Act 7 of 2009). - Sub-section (2) of section 18 provides that dealer may claim Input
Tax Credit in the period in which he receives original VAT invoice, such credit is not available after three months from
the date of such invoice. This has resulted in hardship to the dealers specially in cases where on account of some
decision of the Court or determination by the competent authorities the rate of tax is higher than the tax charged by the
dealer. In such cases the dealer has to deposit the additional amount of tax to the extent of difference in the rate of tax.
In such cases, the period of three months from the date of original VAT invoice prohibits grant of input tax credit in such
cases. With a view to mitigate this hardship, it is proposed to amend the existing provision to grant input tax credit in
such cases.
In the existing system of assessments the dealers are assessed quarterly after scrutiny of the returns by accepting them
if found correct. In the system, the VAT dealers are required to furnish trading and manufacturing accounts, profit and
loss accounts, VAT audit report in cases required under the Act, after nine months of the close of the year. Similarly, a
period of six months is allowed for the sales returns which reduce the output tax liability of the dealers. In case of works
contracts the awarder issues Tax Deduction Certificate on annual basis. In all these prevailing circumstances when
dealers are assessed on quarterly basis the significance of all the above referred documents ceases to have use in such
assessments and the actual status of business is not revealed. To remove such existing anomalous situation, the
scheme of the assessment under the VAT regime is proposed to be made annual instead- of quarterly, however, the
dealers who intend to he assessed on quarterly basis are being given option to do so. With this background in view,
Sections 23 and 24 are being substituted and Sections 25 and 26 of the Act are being amended. As a consequence to
the above amendments, sub-section (1) and (2) of section 34 of the Act is also proposed to be amended by
incorporating the reference of the new provisions in section 24.
Under sub-section (1) of section 73 of the Act, dealers having annual turnover exceeding rupees forty lacs and who are
not otherwise exempted from requirement to submit audit report are required to get his accounts audited by chartered
accountant. In the interest of the trade and industry of the State, it is proposed to increase this limit to rupees one
hundred lacs.
Since the amendments are being given retrospective effect from April 1, 2006, the action already taken under the Act
before the promulgation of this Ordinance shall be validated.
Since the Rajasthan Legislative Assembly was not in session and circumstances existed which rendered it necessary for
the Governor of Rajasthan to take immediate action, he, therefore, promulgated the Rajasthan Value Added Tax
(Amendment) Ordinance, 2008 (Ordinance No. 6 of 2008) on 8th September, 2008, which was published in Rajasthan
Gazette, Extraordinary, Part IV(B), dated 9th September, 2008.
This Bill seeks to replace the aforesaid Ordinance.
Statement of Objects and Reason (Act
No. 15 of 2011
). - Clause (26) of Section 2 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003 defines 'place of business of a dealer'. The
clause is proposed to be amended so as to include in it any warehouse, railway station, railway goods yard, parcel
office, or any other place where goods for transportation in the course of business or otherwise are kept by dealers.
Clause (44) of Section 2 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003 defines 'works contract'. The definition is
proposed to be substituted so as to bring it in line with the definition of works contract given in Central Sales Tax Act,
1956.
Sub-section (2) of Section 3 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003 provides that a dealer whose annual turnover
does not exceed rupees fifty lacs in a year may opt for payment of tax on his turnover. With a view to extend the facility
to the dealer whose annual turnover is upto sixty lacs, the section is proposed to be amended so as to replace the
aforesaid amount of fifty lacs by the amount of sixty lacs.
Sub-section (7) of Section 4 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003 gives option to certain class of dealers to pay
tax on the maximum retail price of the goods. It has been observed that some dealers who opt for payment of tax under
this sub-section provide discount by way of supply of additional quantity of goods, which results in avoidance of tax
liability. In order to determine tax liability of such additional quantity of goods, it is proposed to add a proviso to the effect
that a dealer who opts for payment of tax under this sub-section shall not allow any trade discount or incentive in terms
of quantity of goods in relation to any sale of goods covered under this sub-section, effected by him, for the purpose of
calculating his tax liability.
Section 15 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003 requires a dealer to furnish security for registration. Under
Page 3/138
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
section 38 a person or a dealer who seeks to appeal against the order of the assessing authority is required to furnish
security as a condition of stay of the recovery of the disputed amount. Rajasthan Tax Board may also require security
under Section 83 for payment of disputed mount as a condition of grant of stay. It is considered appropriate that the
Departments of the Central Government and the State Government and a public sector undertakings, corporations,
companies owned or controlled by the Central Government or the State Government should be exempted from
furnishing such securities as by the very nature, status and ownership of these entities payment of amounts due from
these entities is ensured. Accordingly, the aforesaid sections are proposed to be amended so as to exempt aforesaid
entities from furnishing security.
At present input tax credit is allowed on all the capital goods used in the State. Now it is proposed that input tax credit
shall be allowed only on the capital goods used in manufacture of goods other than exempted goods. Accordingly,
clause (g) of sub-Section (1) of Section 18 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003 is proposed to be amended.
Liability to pay tax on sale of goods taxable at first point does not exist at subsequent stages of sale. Therefore, input tax
credit on sale of such goods at subsequent stages is not allowed. Accordingly a new clause (iia) is proposed to be
inserted in sub-Section (3) of Section 18 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003.
In certain trades goods are being sold and tax on such sales is being recovered from purchaser, but at later stage seller
provides incentive to the purchasing dealer in the form of credit notes or subsidy etc. Such purchasing dealers after
selling goods at subsidized rates claim refund of tax paid at earlier stage. In order to check this tendency a new
sub-Section (3A) is proposed to be inserted in Section 18 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
The State Government is committed to facilitate the trade and industry by providing transparent and efficient tax
administration. Because of penal provision for late filing of return, notices are issued to the dealers for imposition of
penalty. In order to avoid the issuance of such notices, provision for late fee on furnishing of return after the prescribed
time period is proposed to made. Accordingly, amendment has been proposed in sub-Section (1) of Section 21 of the
Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003 and Section 58 of the aforesaid Act is proposed to be deleted.
Section 25 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003 provides for assessment in case of avoidance and evasion of
tax. Assessment under the provision of this section cannot be made after the expiry of a period of six months from the
date of making out the case. The term 'the date of making out the case' generally gives rise to disputes. In order to avoid
such disputes aforesaid term is proposed to be defined by inserting an explanation in aforesaid Section 25.
In order to promote e-filing of returns by the dealers, a proviso was added in sub-Section (1) of Section 53 of the
Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003 to provide provisional refund. Now mandatory provisions for submission of return
electronically are being proposed to be made for efficient and effective verification of input tax credit and timely grant of
refund. In this backdrop, the existing provision is not required. Hence, the aforesaid proviso is proposed to be deleted.
Sub-section (4) of Section 53 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003 provides for interest payable on refund to a
dealer. Where an amount is found refundable interest on such amount is payable to the dealer. The charge-ability of
interest accrues only when the amount is found refundable. Therefore, it is proposed to allow interest on refund after
thirty days from the date it becomes due. Accordingly, aforesaid sub-Section (4) is proposed to be amended.
Section 80 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003 requires clearing or forwarding agents to obtain a certificate
from the Assistant Commissioner or the Commercial Taxes Officer in whose territorial jurisdiction they conduct business.
For the purpose of simplification and in order to facilitate such agents, it is proposed to provide that it would be sufficient
for such agents to furnish information about his place of business to the aforesaid officers. Accordingly, marginal
heading and sub-Section (1) of aforesaid Section 80 is proposed to be amended.
To provide efficient and transparent tax administration. Directorate of Revenue Intelligence was announced in Budget
Speech of 2009-10. At present there is no provision enabling the State Government to delegate powers to the officers
under the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003, therefore, the officers of the aforesaid Directorate could not be
empowered to exercise the powers under the aforesaid Act. In order to provide for such enabling power a new Section
97-B is proposed to be inserted in the aforesaid Act.
Statement of Objects and Reasons - (Act No. 20 of 2018). - In order to generate the funds for conservation and
propagation of cow and its progeny, a surcharge is proposed to be levied on sale or purchase of goods at such rates not
exceeding twenty per cent of the amount of tax, or any sum in lieu of tax leviable on such goods, as may be notified by
the State Government by adding a new section 7A in the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003.
Since the Rajasthan State Legislative Assembly was not in session and circumstances existed which rendered it
necessary for the Governor of Rajasthan to take immediate action, he, therefore, promulgated the Rajasthan Value
Page 4/138
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
Added Tax (Amendment) Ordinance, 2018 (Ordinance No. 2 of 2018), on 13th June, 2018, which was published in
Rajasthan Gazette, Part IV (B), Extraordinary, dated 14th June, 2018.
The Bill seeks to replace the aforesaid Ordinance.
Hence the bill.
The title substituted by Rajasthan Act 4 of 2006, Published in Rajasthan Government Gazette Extraordinary, Part IV-A,
dated 31-3-2006, page 61(47) [1-4-2006].
Notification No. F. 2(16) Vidhi/2/2003, dated 31-3-2003, Published in Rajasthan Gazette, Extraordinary, Part 4(Ka),
dated 31-3-2003, page 45(81)
In pursuance of clause (3) of Article 348 of the Constitution of India, the Governor is pleased to authorise the publication
in the Rajasthan Gazette of the following translation in the English language of the Rajasthan Moolya Parivardhit Vikraya
Kar Adhiniyam, 2003 (2003 Ka Adhiniyam Sankyank 4): -
[Received the assent of the Governor on the 30th day of March, 2003.]
An Act to consolidate and amend the law relating to the levy of tax on sale or purchase of goods and to introduce value
added system of taxation in the State of Rajasthan.
Be it enacted by the Rajasthan State Legislature in the Fifty-fourth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Chapter I
Preliminary
1.
Short title, extent and commencement.
(1)
This Act may be called [the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003]
[Substituted by Rajasthan Act 4 of 2006, Published in Rajasthan Government Gazette Extraordinary, Part IV-A, dated
31-3-2006, page 61(47) [1-4-2006].]
.
(2)
It extends to the whole of the State of Rajasthan.
(3)
It shall come into force on such [date]
[The Act came into force on 1-4-2006 vide notification Published in Rajasthan Gazette Extraordinary Part 4(GA), dated
31-3-2006, page 551(1).]
as the State Government may by notification in the Official Gazette appoint and the State Government may appoint
different dates for the commencement of the different provisions of this Act.
2.
Definitions.
- In this Act, unless the subject or context otherwise requires, -
(1)
"appellate authority" means a person not below the rank of the Deputy Commissioner authorised as such by the State
Government;
(2)
"assessing authority" means any officer not below the rank of Assistant Commercial Taxes Officer, authorised as such
by the Commissioner;
(3)
"assessment" means determination of liability under this Act;
(4)
"auditor" means any officer not below the rank of Assistant Commercial Taxes Officer authorised as such by the
Commissioner;
(5)
"awarder" means any person at whose instance or for whose benefit a works contract is executed;
(6)
"business" includes -
(i)
Page 5/138
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
any trade, commerce or manufacture; or
(ii)
any adventure or concern in the nature of trade, commerce or manufacture -
whether or not such trade, commerce, manufacture, adventure or concern is carried or with a motive to make gain or
profit, and whether or not any gain or profit accrues from such trade, commerce, manufacture, adventure or concern; or
(iii)
any transaction in connection with or incidental or ancillary to such trade, commerce, manufacture, adventure or
concern; or
(iv)
any transaction in connection with or incidental or ancillary or consequential to the commencement or closure of such
business; or
(v)
any occasional transaction in the nature of such trade, commerce, manufacture, adventure or concern whether or not
there is volume, frequency, continuity or regularity of such transaction;
(7)
[ "capital goods" means plant and machinery including parts and accessories thereof, meant for use in manufacture
unless otherwise notified by the State Government from time to time in the Official Gazette;]
[Clause (7) Substituted by Rajasthan Act 4 of 2006, Published in Rajasthan Government Gazette Extraordinary, Part
IV-A, dated 31-3-2006, page 61(47)]
[Explanation. - For the purpose of this clause, generating set for generation of electrical energy to be used in
manufacturing shall be treated as capital goods.]
[Inserted by Rajasthan Act No. 5 of 2016, dated 9.4.2016.]
(8)
"casual trader" means a person who, whether as principal, agent or in any other capacity, has occasional transactions of
a business nature involving buying, selling, supplying or distributing of such goods as may be notified by the State
Government whether for cash or deferred payment or for commission or remuneration or other valuable consideration;
(9)
"Commissioner" means a person appointed by the State Government to be the Commissioner of Commercial Taxes
Department and shall include Additional Commissioner of Commercial Taxes Department;
(10)
"contractor" means any person executing a works contract and includes a sub-contractor, or a person to whom contract
has been awarded under section 77;
(11)
"dealer" means any person, who carries on business in any capacity, of buying, selling, supplying or distributing goods
directly or otherwise, or making purchases or sales as defined in clause (35) for himself or others, whether for cash or
deferred payment, or for commission, remuneration or other valuable consideration and shall include-
(i)
a factor, broker, commission agent, delcredere agent or any other mercantile agent, by whatever name called, and
whether of the same description as hereinbefore mentioned or not, who carries on the business of buying, selling,
supplying or distributing any goods belonging to any principal whether disclosed or not;
(ii)
an auctioneer, who sells or auctions goods belonging to any principal, whether disclosed or not and whether the offer of
the intending purchaser is accepted by him or by the principal or a nominee of the principal;
(iii)
a manager or an agent, of a non-resident dealer who buys, sells, supplies or distributes goods in the State belonging to
such dealer;
(iv)
any society, club, trust or other association, whether incorporated or not, which buys goods from or sells goods to its
members;
(v)
a casual trader;
Page 6/138
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
(vi)
the Central or any State Government or any of their Departments or offices which, whether or not in the course of
business, buy, sell, supply or distribute goods directly or otherwise, whether for cash or deferred payment or for
commission, remuneration or other valuable consideration; and
(vii)
any trading, commercial or financial establishment including a bank, an insurance company, a transport company and
the like which, whether or not in the course of its business, buys, sells, supplies or distributes goods, directly or
otherwise, whether for cash or deferred payment, commission, remuneration or other valuable consideration;
Explanation. - A person, who sells agricultural or horticultural produce, grown by himself or grown on any land in which
he has an interest as owner or tenant as defined in the Rajasthan Tenancy Act, 1955 (Act
No. 3 of 1955
), shall not be deemed to be a dealer in respect of such sales within the meaning of this clause;
(12)
"Deputy Commissioner (Administration)", "Assistant Commissioner", "Commercial Taxes Officer", "Assistant Commercial
Taxes Officer" or "Junior Commercial Taxes Officer" means the person holding office with that designation under the
State Government;
(13)
"exempted goods" means any goods exempted from tax in accordance with the provisions of this Act;
(14)
"firm", "partner" and "partnership" shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in the Indian Partnership Act,
1932 (Central Act No. 9 of 1932);
(15)
"goods" means all kinds of movable property, whether tangible or intangible, other than newspapers, money, actionable
claims, stocks, shares and securities, and includes materials, articles and commodities used in any form in the execution
of works contract, livestock and all other things attached to or forming part of the land which is agreed to be severed
before sale or under the contract of sale;
(16)
"importer" means a dealer who brings or causes to be brought into the State any goods or to whom any goods are
dispatched from any place outside the State, for the purpose of sale or use In manufacturing and processing of goods
for sale;
(17)
"input tax" means tax paid or payable by a registered dealer in the course of business, on the purchase of any goods
made from a registered dealer;
(18)
"invoice" means a document containing such particulars as may be prescribed;
(19)
"lease" means any agreement or arrangement whereby the right to use any goods for any purpose is transferred by one
person to another whether or not for a specified period for cash, deferred payment or other valuable consideration
without the transfer of ownership, and includes a sub-lease but does not include any transfer on hire purchase or any
system of payment by installments;
(20)
"lessee" means any person to whom the right to use any goods for any purpose is transferred under a lease;
(21)
"lessor" means any person by whom the right to use any goods for any purpose is transferred under a lease;
(22)
"manufacture" includes every processing of goods which brings into existence a commercially different and distinct
commodity but shall not include such processing as may be notified by the State Government;
(23)
"non-resident dealer" means a dealer who effects purchases or sales of any goods in the State but who has no fixed
place of business or residence in the State;
(24)
Page 7/138
----- PAGE 8 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
"out put tax" means the tax charged or chargeable under this Act by a registered dealer in respect of the sale of goods in
the course of his business;
(25)
"person" means any individual or association or body of individuals and includes a Hindu Undivided Family or Joint
Family, a firm, a company whether incorporated or not, a co- operative society, a trust, a club, an institution, an agency,
a corporation, a local authority, a Department of the Government or other artificial or juridical person;
(26)
"place of business" means any place in the State of Rajasthan where a dealer purchases or sells goods and includes,-
(a)
any warehouse, godown or other place where the dealer stores goods;
(b)
any place where the dealer processes, produces or manufactures goods;
(c)
any place where the dealer keeps his accounts, registers and documents;
(d)
any vehicle or carrier wherein the goods are stored or business is carried on;
(e)
[ any warehouse, railway station, railway goods yard, parcel office, or any other place where goods for transportation in
the course of business or otherwise are kept by dealers; and]
[Inserted by Rajasthan Act
No. 15 of 2011
, dated 11.4.2011.]
Explanation. - The dealer shall declare one of the places of business as his "principal place of business" in the
application for registration, and his final accounts, annual statements, registers and documents, whether maintained
manually or electronically, shall necessarily be kept at such place;
(27)
"prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this Act;
(28)
"purchase price" means the amount paid or payable by a dealer as valuable consideration for the purchase of goods
including all ancillary and incidental expenses and statutory levies payable but excluding the tax payable under this Act;
(29)
"raw material" means goods used as an ingredient in the manufacture of other goods and includes processing material,
consumables, preservative, fuel and lubricant required for the process of manufacture;
(30)
"registered dealer" means a dealer registered or deemed to have been registered under the provisions of this Act;
(31)
"repealed Act" means the Rajasthan Sales Tax Act, 1994 (Act
No. 22 of 1995
);
(32)
"resale" means sale of goods without performing any operation on them which amounts to or results in a manufacture;
(33)
"reverse tax" means that part of the input tax for which credit has been availed in contravention of the provisions of
section 18;
(34)
"rules" means the rules made under this Act;
(35)
"sale" with all its grammatical variations and cognate expressions means every transfer of property in goods by one
person to another for cash, deferred payment or other valuable consideration and includes-
(i)
a transfer, otherwise than in pursuance of a contract, of property in goods for cash, deferred payment or other valuable
Page 8/138
----- PAGE 9 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
consideration;
(ii)
a transfer of property in goods (whether as goods or in some other form) involved in the execution of a works contract;
(iii)
any delivery of goods on hire-purchase or other system of payment by installments;
(iv)
a transfer of the right to use goods for any purpose (whether or not for a specified period) for cash, deferred payment or
other valuable consideration;
(v)
a supply of goods by an unincorporated association or body of persons to a member thereof for cash, deferred payment
or other valuable consideration; and
(vi)
a supply, by way of or as part of any service or in any other manner whatsoever, of goods, being food or any other
article for human consumption or any drink (whether or not intoxicating), where such supply is for cash, deferred
payment or other valuable consideration,
and such transfer, delivery or supply shall be deemed to be a sale and the word "purchase" or "buy" shall be construed
accordingly;
Explanation. - Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, where any goods are sold in packing, the packing material
in such case shall be deemed to have been sold with the goods;
(36)
"sale price" means the amount paid or payable to a dealer as consideration for the sale of any goods less sum allowed
by way of any kind of discount or rebate according to the practice normally prevailing in the trade, but inclusive of any
statutory levy or any sum charged for anything done by the dealer in respect of the goods or services rendered at the
time of or before the delivery thereof, except the tax imposed under this Act;
Explanation I. - In the case of a sale by hire purchase agreement, the prevailing market price of the goods on the date
on which such goods are delivered to the buyer under such agreement, shall be deemed to be the sale price of such
goods;
Explanation II. - Cash or trade discount at the time of sale as evident from the invoice shall be excluded from the sale
price but any ex post facto grant of discounts or incentives or rebates or rewards and the like shall not be excluded;
Explanation III. - Where according to the terms of a contract, the cost of freight and other expenses in respect of the
transportation of goods are incurred by the dealer for or on behalf of the buyer, such cost of freight and other expenses
shall not be included in the sale price, if charged separately in the invoice;
[Explanation IV.
[Added by Rajasthan Act
No. 20 of 2019
, dated 20.8.2019.]
- The amount received or receivable by oil companies for the sale of diesel and petrol to the retail outlets in the State
shall be deemed to be equivalent to the price on which the retail outlets sell these commodities to the consumer;]
[(36-A) "Schedule" means a Schedule appended to this Act;
[Inserted by Rajasthan Act 4 of 2006, Published in Rajasthan Government Gazette Extraordinary, Part IV-A, dated
31-3-2006, page 61(47) [1-4-2006].]
(36-B) "Special Economic Zone" shall have the same meaning as has been assigned to it in clause (za) of Section 2 of
the Special Economic Zones Act, 2005 (Central Act No. 28 of 2005);]
(37)
"tax" means any tax or other levy by any name leviable under the provisions of this Act;
(38)
"Tax Board" means Rajasthan Tax Board constituted under section 88;
(39)
"tax period" means the period as may be notified by the State Government for deposit of tax payable under this Act;
(40)
"taxable turnover" means, that part of turnover, as may be determined after making such deductions from the total
Page 9/138
----- PAGE 10 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
turnover as may be prescribed on which a dealer shall be liable to pay tax. under this Act;
(41)
"turnover" means the aggregate amount of sale price received or receivable by a dealer including purchase price of the
goods which are subject to tax under sub-section (2) of section 4 [but shall exclude the sale price or part of sale price, if
any, in respect of sales of goods which were purchased in the State by the dealer upon payment of tax on the maximum
retail price of such goods or, where tax on maximum retail price of such goods were paid in the State on an earlier
occasion]
[Inserted by Rajasthan Act 4 of 2006, Published in Rajasthan Government Gazette Extraordinary, Part IV-A, dated
31-3-2006, page 61(47) [1-4-2006].]
;
(42)
"VAT invoice" means an invoice containing such particulars as may be prescribed, and issued by a dealer authorised
under this Act;
(43)
"vehicle or carrier" means any mode of transportation including human being or animal carrying goods from one place to
another;
(44)
[ "works contract"  means a contract for carrying out any work which includes assembling, construction, building,
altering, manufacturing, processing, fabricating, erection, installation, fitting out, improvement, repair or commissioning
of any movable or immovable property;]
[Substituted by Rajasthan Act
No. 15 of 2011
, dated 11.4.2011.]
(45)
"year" means the period commencing from 1st April and ending on 31st March.
Chapter II
Incidence and Levy of Tax
3.
Incidence of tax.
(1)
Subject to the provisions of this Act, every dealer-
(a)
who is an importer of goods; or
(b)
who is a manufacturer of goods and whose annual turnover exceeds [rupees five lacs]
[Substituted 'rupees two lacs' by Rajasthan Finance Act, 2014 (Act No. 14 of 2014), dated 31.7.2014.]
; or
(c)
whose annual turnover exceeds rupees five lacs, shall be liable to pay tax under this Act.
(2)
[ Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) a dealer other than those specified in clause (a) of sub-section
(1) or the dealer or class of dealers as may be notified by the State Government who purchases goods from a registered
dealer of the State and sells, such goods or goods manufactured from such goods within the State, may opt for payment
of tax on his turnover excluding the turnover of the goods specified in Schedule I, at the rate as may be notified under
sub-section (3) of section 4, subject to the condition that annual turnover of such dealer does not exceed -
(i)
rupees fifty lacs, in case of a dealer specified in clause (b) of sub-section (1); and
(ii)
rupees seventy five lacs, in case of other dealers.]
(3)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-sections (1) and (2) every casual trader shall be liable to pay tax under this
Page 10/138
----- PAGE 11 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
Act.
(4)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-sections (1) and (2) every person, other than a casual trader or a registered
dealer, who carries on business temporarily for a period not exceeding one hundred twenty days in a year, shall be
liable to pay tax under this Act in the manner as may be prescribed.
(5)
A dealer registered under the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 (Central Act No. 74 of 1956) who is not liable to pay tax under
sub-section (1) to (4), shall nevertheless be liable to pay tax in accordance with the provisions of this Act.
(6)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, a dealer registered under this Act shall so long as his certificate of
registration remains in force, be liable to pay tax, irrespective of his turnover.
4.
Levy of tax and its rate.
(1)
Subject to the other provisions of this Act and the provisions of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 (Central Act No. 74 of
1956), the tax payable by a dealer under this Act, shall be at such point or points as may be prescribed in the series of
sales by successive dealers, and shall be levied on the taxable turnover of sale of goods specified in Schedule III to
Schedule VI at the rate mentioned against each of such goods in the said Schedules.
(2)
Every dealer who in the course of his business purchases any goods other than exempted goods, in the circumstances
in which no tax under sub-section (1) is payable on the sale price of such goods and the goods are disposed off for the
purpose other than those specified in clause (a) to (g) of sub-section (1) of section 18, shall be liable to pay tax on the
purchase price of such goods at the rate mentioned against each of such goods in Schedule III to Schedule VI of the
Act.
(3)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), the tax payable by the dealer covered by sub-section (2) of
section 3, shall be levied at the rate not exceeding two percent on the turnover, as may be notified by the State
Government:
[Provided that the State Government may notify different rates for different class of dealers.]
[Added by Rajasthan Finance Act, 2017, dated 31.3.2017]
(4)
Where any goods are sold packed in some material, whether charged for separately or not, notwithstanding anything
contained in sub-section (1), the tax liability of and the rate of tax on the packing material shall be according to the tax
liability of and the rate of tax on the goods packed therein.
(5)
Subject to such conditions as it may impose, the State Government may, if it considers necessary so to do in the public
interest, by notification in the Official Gazette, add to or omit from, or otherwise amend or modify the Schedules,
prospectively or retrospectively, or reduce the rate of tax payable in respect of any goods and thereupon the Schedule
shall be deemed to have been amended accordingly.
(6)
Every notification issued under sub-section (5) shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is so issued, before the House of
the State Legislature, while it is in session for period of not less than thirty days which may comprised in one session or
in two successive sessions [and if before the expiry of the sessions] [[Substituted for the following words vide Rajasthan
Act
4 of 2007
, Published in Rajasthan Government Gazette Extraordinary, Part IV-A, dated 10-4-2007, page 1(18):-
'and is before the expiry of the sessions'.]] in which it is so laid or of the session immediately following the House of the
State Legislature makes any modification in such notification or resolves that any such notification should not be issued,
such notification thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be on no effect, as the case may be, so however,
that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done thereunder.
(7)
Page 11/138
----- PAGE 12 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, any registered dealer, who imports into, or manufactures in, the State
such goods as may be notified by the State Government, may, at his option, pay, in lieu of the tax payable by him on
sale price of such goods under this Act, a tax at full rate on the maximum retail price of such goods in the manner as
may be prescribed:
Provided that where a dealer has purchased any goods-
(a)
from aforesaid importer or manufacturer upon payment of tax on the maximum retail price of such goods; or
(b)
from another importer dealer where tax on the maximum retail price of such goods was paid in the State on an earlier
occasion,
the purchasing dealer, irrespective of whether he is registered or not, while making resale of such goods in the State,
shall, notwithstanding anything contained elsewhere in the Act, the entitled to recover from the buyer the amount of tax
paid by him at the time of purchase of such goods under such conditions and restrictions, and in such manner, and
within such time, as may be prescribed:
[Provided further that a dealer who opts payment of tax under this sub-section shall not allow any trade discount or
incentive in terms of quantity of goods in relation to any sale of goods covered under this sub-section, effected by him,
for the purpose of calculating his tax liability.]
[Added by Rajasthan Act
No. 15 of 2011
, dated 11.4.2011.]
[Substituted by Rajasthan Finance Act, 2017, dated 31.3.2017]
Substituted by Rajasthan Act 4 of 2006, Published in Rajasthan Government Gazette Extraordinary, Part IV-A, dated
31-3-2006, page 61(47) [1-4-2006]
Legislative Changes.- Section 4 substituted by Rajasthan Act 4 of 2006 w.e.f. 31-3-2006. Before substitution the section
was as under : -
"4. Levy of tax and its rate.- (1) Subject to the other provisions of this Act and the provisions of the Central Sales Tax
Act, 1956 (Central Act No. 74 of 1956), the tax payable by a dealer under this Act, shall be at such point or points as
may be prescribed in the series of sales by successive dealers, and shall be levied at such rates not exceeding fifty
percent on the taxable turnover, as may be notified by the State Government in the Official Gazette.
(2) Every dealer who in the course of his business purchases any goods other than exempted goods, in the
circumstances in which no tax under sub-section (1) is payable on the sale price of such goods and the goods are
disposed of for the purpose other than those specified in clause (a) to (g) of sub-section (1) of section 18, shall be liable
to pay tax on the purchase price of such goods at the same rate at which it would have been leviable on the sale price of
such goods under sub-section (1).
(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), the tax payable by a dealer covered by sub-section (2) of
section 3, shall be levied at such rates not exceeding five percent on the turnover, as may be notified by the State
Government.
(4) Where any goods are sold packed in some material, whether charged for separately or not, notwithstanding anything
contained in sub-section (1), the tax liability of and the rate of tax on the packing material shall be according to the tax
liability of and the rate of tax on the goods packed therein."
5.
Payment of lump sum in lieu of tax.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, [XX]
[By Rajasthan Ordinance 5 of 2006, Published in Rajasthan Government Gazette, Extraordinary, Part 4(Kha), dated
28-12-2006, page 7, w.r.e.f. 1-4-2006, the following words deleted :- 'but subject to the provisions of sub-section (2) of
section 3.']
the State Government may provide an option for payment of tax in a lump sum in respect of sales of such class of goods
or by such class of dealers on such terms and conditions as may be notified in the Official Gazette.
(2)
The tax in lump sum specified in sub-section (1) shall not exceed the limit of maximum tax liability as provided in sub-
Page 12/138
----- PAGE 13 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
section (1) of section 4.
6.
Levy of tax by weight, volume, measurement or unit on certain goods.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sections 3 and 4, the State Government may fix the amount of tax payable on the
sale or purchase of certain goods or a class of goods in respect of a specified area or whole of the State, on the basis of
weight, volume, measurement or unit, on such terms and conditions, as may be notified in the Official Gazette.
(2)
The amount of tax payable under sub-section (1) may be fixed with reference to the types of vehicles or carriers
transporting the said goods, and also with reference to the quality thereof.
(3)
The amount of tax notified under sub-sections (1) and (2) shall not exceed the amount of maximum limit of tax liability as
provided in sub-section (1) of section 4.
(4)
The State Government may, by an order published in the Official Gazette and subject to such terms and conditions as
may be specified in such order, delegate its power under this section to the Commissioner.
7.
Levy of tax on live-stock.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sections 3, 4 and 6, tax on the sale or purchase of live-stock at such rate not
exceeding ten percent of the sale or purchase price, as the case may be, of such live-stock and at such point of sale or
purchase, as may be notified by the State Government, shall be payable by every person, who sells or purchases
live-stock in the State and the provisions of section 28 shall mutatis mutandis apply to such person.
(2)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), in respect of live-stock of such class as may be specified by the
State Government by notification in the Official Gazette, tax shall be payable at such rate per head not exceeding five
hundred rupees as may be notified.
(3)
Different rates of percentage of price, or different rates per head may be notified by the State Government under sub-
sections (1) and (2) for different classes of live-stock.
7A.
[ Levy of surcharge.
[Inserted by Rajasthan Act No. 20 of 2018, dated 1.10.2018.]
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, there shall be levied a surcharge from such date and at such rate not
exceeding twenty per cent of the amount of tax, or any sum in lieu of tax, leviable on sale or purchase of such goods, as
may be notified by the State Government, and shall be paid by the registered dealers.
(2)
The provisions as they are applicable to the tax payable under this Act, shall, so far as may be, apply in relation to
surcharge payable under sub-section (1).
(3)
The proceeds of surcharge mentioned under sub-section (1) shall be utilized for the purpose of conservation and
propagation of cow and its progeny.]
8.
[ Exemption of tax. [[Section 8 substituted by Rajasthan Act 4 of 2006, Published in Rajasthan Government Gazette
Extraordinary, Part IV-A, dated 31-3-2006, page 61(47) [1-4-2006], which was as under :-
'8. Exemption of tax.-Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, where the State Government is of the opinion that it
is necessary or expedient in the public interest so to do. it may, by notification in the Official Gazette, exempt fully or
partially, whether prospectively or retrospectively from tax the sale or purchase of any goods or class of goods or any
person or class of persons, without any condition or with such condition as may be specified in the notification.']]
(1)
Page 13/138
----- PAGE 14 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
The goods specified in the Schedule-I shall be exempt from tax, subject to such conditions as may be specified therein.
(2)
Subject to such conditions as it may impose, the State Government may, if it considers necessary so to do in the public
interest, by notification in the Official Gazette, add to or omit from, or otherwise amend or modify the Schedule-I,
prospectively or retrospectively, and thereupon the Schedule shall be deemed to have been amended accordingly.
(3)
The State Government in the public interest, by notification in the Official Gazette, may exempt whether prospectively or
retrospectively from tax the sale or purchase by any any person or class of persons as mentioned in Schedule-II, without
any condition or with such condition as may be specified in the notification.
[(3-A) Subject to such conditions as it may impose, the State Government may, if it considers necessary so to do in the
public interest, by notification in the Official Gazette, and to or omit from, or otherwise amend or modify the Schedule-II,
prospectively or retrospectively, and thereupon the Schedule shall be deemed to have been amended accordingly.]
(4)
The State Government may, if it considers necessary in the public interest so to do, notify grant of exemption from
payment of whole of tax payable under this Act in respect of any class of sales or purchase for the purpose of promoting
the scheme of Special Economic Zones or promoting exports, subject to such conditions as may be laid down in the
notification.
(5)
Every notification issued [under this section]
[Substituted 'under sub-section (4)' by Rajasthan Act No. 3 of 2007, dated 10.4.2007.]
shall be laid, as soon as may be alter it is so issued, before the House of the State Legislature, while it is in session for a
period of not less than thirty days, which may comprised in one session or in two successive sessions [and if before the
expiry of the sessions]
[Substituted 'and is before the expiry of the sessions' by Rajasthan Act
No. 4 of 2007
, dated 10.4.2007.]
in which it is so laid or of the session immediately following the House of the State Legislature makes any modification in
such notification or resolves that any such notification should not be issued, such notification thereafter have effect only
in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be, so however, that any such modification or annulment shall
be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done thereunder.]
9.
Bar against collection of tax when not payable.
(1)
No person who is not a registered dealer or not registered dealer who is not liable to pay tax in respect of any sale or
purchase, shall collect on the sale of any goods any sum by way of tax from any other person.
(2)
No registered dealer shall collect any amount by way of tax in excess of the amount of tax payable by him under the
provisions of this Act.
(3)
No dealer shall collect any sum by way of tax in respect of sale of any goods on which, by virtue of section 8, no tax is
payable.
(4)
Dealer opting for payment of lump sum amount in lieu of Lax under section 5, or who is covered by sub-section (2) of
section 3 shall not collect tax or any sum in lieu of tax.
10.
Burden of proof.
- The burden of proving that any sale or purchase effected by any person is not liable to tax for any reason under this
Act or to prove for entitlement of input tax credit on any purchases, shall be on such person.
Chapter III
Registration of Dealers
11.
Page 14/138
----- PAGE 15 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
Obligatory registration.
(1)
Every dealer liable to pay tax under sub-section (1) or (5) of section 3 shall get himself registered by submitting an
application to the authority competent to grant registration, in such form and in such manner and within such time as
may be prescribed.
(2)
The authority competent to grant registration, after making such enquiry as it may consider necessary, may grant a
certificate of registration in the prescribed form.
(3)
The certificate of registration shall be granted from the date he becomes liable to pay tax under section 3.
(4)
The certificate of registration so granted shall not be transferable and it shall remain in force unless it is cancelled.
(5)
Where a dealer is registered under the repealed act he shall be deemed to have been registered under this Act from the
date of commencement of this Act, provided he has submitted such information as has been required by the
Commissioner under the repealed Act by notification in the Official Gazette.
(6)
When a dealer, who is liable to get registration, does not make application under sub-section (1), the authority
competent to grant registration, after affording an opportunity of being heard to such dealer, shall grant him a certificate
of registration from the date he becomes [liable to pay tax under this Act and such registration] [[Substituted for the
following words vide Rajasthan Act
4 of 2007
, Published in Rajasthan Government Gazette Extraordinary, Part IV-A, dated 10-4-2007, page 1(18):-
'liable to pay tax under this Act the and such registration'.]] shall take effect as if it has been granted under sub-section
(2).
(7)
Where a dealer who is already registered, intends to do business at one or more additional places in the State he shall
be granted in such manner as may be prescribed, a branch certificate under the certificate of registration already held by
him.
(8)
Where a dealer has one or more additional registration under the repealed Act, he shall inform to his assessing authority
or authority competent to grant registration within sixty days from the commencement of this Act, as to which of the
registrations shall be treated registration under this Act and which of the registration certificates may be converted into
branch certificates. If the dealer fails to do so, the Commissioner or any officer authorised by him for this purpose, shall
declare one such registration to be the registration under this Act and shall issue branch certificate in lieu of remaining
registration certificates.
(9)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, a dealer dealing exclusively in exempted goods, shall not be required to
get registration under this Act.
12.
Voluntary registration.
(1)
(a)
Any person intending to commence or having commenced a business may, notwithstanding that he is not liable to get
registration under section 11, apply to the authority competent to grant registration in the prescribed form for registration.
(2)
The authority competent to grant registration, after making such enquiry as it may consider necessary, may grant a
certificate of registration in the prescribed manner from the date of application or as the case may be from the date of
commencement of business and provisions of section 11 shall mutatis mutandis apply.
13.
Authority competent to grant registration.
Page 15/138
----- PAGE 16 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
(1)
Every dealer liable to get registration shall declare his principal place of business in the application for registration filed
by him and the Assistant Commissioner or the Commercial Taxes Officer, as the case may be, having territorial
jurisdiction over such principal place of business, or any other officer not below the rank of Assistant Commercial Taxes
Officer, authorised specially or generally by the Commissioner, shall be the authority competent to grant registration to
such dealer.
(2)
In the case of a non-resident dealer, an officer not below the rank of Assistant Commercial Taxes Officer authorised by
the Commissioner shall the the authority competent to grant registration and such authority either on the application of
such non-resident dealer or otherwise, shall grant him a certificate of registration from such date and with such terms
and conditions, as may be specified therein.
(3)
[ Where a dealer, after having been granted registration, changes his principal place of business outside the territorial
jurisdiction of the present assessing authority, he shall seek the permission in the prescribed manner for such change of
the assessing authority from the Commissioner or any other officer authorised by the Commissioner in this behalf, and
unless such permission is granted, the present assessing authority shall continue to be the assessing authority of such
dealer. Where a decision on the grant of permission is not taken within a period of thirty days from the date of the
application seeking change of assessing authority, such permission shall be deemed to have been granted.]
[Substituted by Rajasthan Act No. 5 of 2016, dated 9.4.2016.]
14.
Authorisation for collection of tax.
- Subject to the other provisions of this Act, where a dealer makes an application for obligatory registration or voluntary
registration he may start collecting tax on his sales in accordance with the provisions of this Act from the date of such
application and in the case all the provisions of this Act, as are applicable to a registered dealer, shall mutatis mutandis
apply to him.
15.
Furnishing of security for registration.
(1)
The authority competent to grant registration or the assessing authority shall, as a condition to the grant of registration to
a dealer or at any time after such grant, require him to furnish in the prescribed manner and within the time specified by
such authority, the initial security or such subsequent additional security as may be considered necessary-
(a)
for the timely payment of the amount of tax or other sum payable by him under this Act; and
(b)
for the safe custody of books of accounts or any other documents required to be maintained under this Act and the rules
made thereunder :
[Provided that no security under this section shall be required to be furnished by a department of the Central
Government or the State Government or a public sector undertaking, corporation or company owned or controlled by the
Central Government or the State Government.]
[Added by Rajasthan Act
No. 15 of 2011
, dated 11.4.2011.]
(2)
At the time of grant of obligatory registration to the dealers covered under sub-section (1) or (5) of section 3, the initial
security shall be in the form of surety of two dealers registered under this Act, and where the dealer is not in a position to
furnish such surety, he shall submit [security in the form of National Savings Certificate or in cash or in the form of three
years bank guarantee of a nationalised bank,]
[Substituted by Rajasthan Act 4 of 2006, Published in Rajasthan Government Gazette Extraordinary, Part IV-A, dated
31-3-2006, page 61(47) [1-4-2006] for the words 'security in the form of National Savings Certificate or in cash,'.]
of the amount of-
(a)
Page 16/138
----- PAGE 17 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
[] [[Clauses (a) & (b) substituted by Rajasthan Act 4 of 2006, Published in Rajasthan Government Gazette Extraordinary,
Part IV-A, dated 31-3-2006, page 61(47) [1-4-2006] for the following :-
'(a) Rs. 25,000/- in case of a small scale manufacturing unit, Rs. 50.000/- in case of a medium scale manufacturing unit
and Rs. 2,00,000/- in case of a large scale manufacturing unit; and
(b)
Rs. 25,000/- in cases not covered by clause (a).']] Rs. 10,000/- in case of a small scale manufacturing unit, Rs. 15,000/-
in case of a medium scale manufacturing unit and Rs. 25,000/- in case of a large scale manufacturing unit; and
(b)
Rs. 10,000/- in cases not covered by clause (a).]
Explanation. - The small scale or medium scale or large scale manufacturing unit shall have the same meaning as
assigned to them by the Government of India from time to time.
(3)
At the time of grant of voluntary registration under section 12, [the initial security shall be in the form of surety of two
dealers registered under this Act, and where the dealer is not in a position to furnish such surety, he shall submit
security]
[Substituted 'the initial security shall be' by Rajasthan Act No. 3 of 2007, dated 10.4.2007.]
[in the form of National Savings Certificate or in cash or in the form of three years bank guarantee of a nationalised
bank, of the amount of Rs. 10,000/-.] [[Substituted by Rajasthan Act 4 of 2006, Published in Rajasthan Government
Gazette Extraordinary, Part IV-A, dated 31-3-2006, page 61(47) [1-4-2006] for the following :-
'in the form of National Savings Certificate or in cash, of the amount of Rs. 25,000/-.']]
(4)
The amount of security, in case of a dealer who is already registered or deemed to be registered or deemed to be
registered under this Act, may be increased by the assessing authority, for reasons to be recorded in writing, to twenty
five percent of the annual tax liability of the immediate preceding year. However, in case of dealers registered in the
current year, such increase in the security amount may be twenty five percent of the highest tax liability of the preceding
months or the quarters, as the case may be.
(5)
Where the security furnished by a dealer under sub-sections (2) and (4) is in the form of a surety bond and the surety
becomes insolvent or dies, the dealer shall, within thirty days of the occurrence of any of the aforesaid events, inform the
assessing authority and shall, within ninety days of such occurrence, furnish a fresh surety bond or furnish in a
prescribed manner other security for the amount of the surety bond.
(6)
The assessing authority may, by order in writing, forfeit the whole or any part of the security furnished by a dealer-
(a)
for realising any amount of tax, penalty, interest, erroneously availed input tax credit or any other sum payable by him
under this Act; or
(b)
for any loss cause to the Government by negligence or willful default on his part in ensuring the safe custody or proper
use of the books of accounts or any other documents required to be maintained under this Act and the rules made
thereunder.
(7)
Where as a result of an order of forfeiture under sub-section (6), the security furnished by any dealer is rendered
insufficient, he shall make up the deficiency within a period of thirty days from the date of the communication of the said
order.
(8)
No dealer shall be required to furnish additional security under sub-section (4) and no order of forfeiture of the whole or
any part of the security shall be passed against him under sub- section (6) unless he has been afforded an opportunity
of being heard.
16.
Amendment and cancellation of registration certificate.
(1)
Page 17/138
----- PAGE 18 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
Every registered dealer or his legal representative, as the case may be, shall inform the assessing authority and also to
the authority competent to grant registration, about every change or event as referred to in sub-sections (2) and (3)
within thirty days of the occurrence of such change or event.
(2)
Where any change or event does not alter the basic status of a dealer, such as change in the name of business or place
of the business, addition, deletion or modification in the description of goods, acquisition of any business, sale or
disposal of the business in part, change in the constitution of the firm without dissolution, the certificate of registration
already granted to a dealer shall be amended accordingly from the date of the occurrence of the change or the event.
(3)
Where any change or event alters the basic status of a dealer, such as, conversion of a proprietary concern into
partnership concern into partnership firm or vice versa dissolution of an existing firm and creation of new firm, formation
of a firm into a company or vice versa, a fresh certificate of registration shall be required to be obtained by the dealer.
(4)
Where-
(a)
any business in respect of which a certificate of registration has been granted to a dealer under this Act, is discontinued
permanently; or
(aa)
[ a dealer has discontinued business at his principal place of business; or]
[Inserted by Rajasthan Finance Act, 2014 (Act No. 14 of 2014), dated 31.7.2014.]
(b)
in the case of transfer of business by a dealer, the transferee already holds a certificate of registration under this Act; or
(c)
a dealer has ceased to be required to be registered and to pay tax under this Act; or
(d)
a dealer has obtained the certificate of registration by misrepresentation of facts or by fraud; or
(e)
a dealer has obtained a certificate of registration against the provisions of this Act; or
(f)
a dealer has failed to furnish security within the period specified under section 15 and a period of ninety days has
elapsed; or
(g)
a dealer issues false or forged VAT invoices,
the assessing authority or the authority competent to grant registration may, after affording such dealer an opportunity of
being heard and after recording reasons in writing, cancel the certificate of registration from such date as he may deem
appropriate.
(5)
If there is any reason which in the opinion of the Commissioner warrants action in the interest of State revenue, the
Commissioner may at any time, for reasons to be recorded in writing and after giving the dealer an opportunity of being
heard, cancel the certificate of registration held by any dealer from such date as the Commissioner may specify in this
behalf.
(6)
The cancellation of certificate of registration shall not affect the liability of any person to pay tax due for any period till the
date of such cancellation and remained unpaid.
Chapter IV
Payment of Tax, Filing of Returns and Assessment
17.
Tax payable by a dealer.
(1)
Subject to the other provisions of this Act, the net tax payable by a registered dealer, other than the dealer covered by
sub-section (2) of section 3 or section 5, for a tax period shall be calculated as under:-
Page 18/138
----- PAGE 19 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
T=(O+R+P)-I
Where
T is net tax payable;
O is amount of output tax;
R is amount of reverse tax;
P is the amount of tax payable under sub-section (2) of section 4; and
I is the amount of input tax.
(2)
Where the net tax payable under sub-section (1) has a negative value, the same shall be first adjusted against any tax
payable or amount outstanding under the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 (Central Act No. 74 of 1956) [or under this Act or
the repealed Act and the balance amount if any, shall be carried forward to the next tax period or periods. In case the
dealer claims refund of the balance amount, if any, at the end of the year, the same shall be granted only after the end
of the immediately succeeding year. However,]
[Substituted 'or under this Act or the repealed Act, shall be carried forward to the next tax period or periods of the year
and refund of the remaining amount, if any, shall be granted only after the end of the immediately succeeding year
however' by Rajasthan Act No. 3 of 2007, dated 10.4.2007.]
[the Commissioner after recording reasons for doing so may, by a general or specific order, direct to grant such refunds
even earlier.] [[Substituted by Rajasthan Act 4 of 2006, Published in Rajasthan Government Gazette Extraordinary, Part
IV-A, dated 31-3-2006, page 61(47) (1-4-2006) for the following :-
'however, the Commissioner, in particular cases, may, after recording reasons, grant such refunds earlier also.']]
(3)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, where the sales are made on behalf of the principal registered under this
Act by an agent also registered under this Act, such sales shall be deemed to be the sales of the principal and the agent
shall render the accounts of such sales in the manner as may be prescribed.
(4)
Every person whose registration is cancelled under this Act shall pay tax in the manner prescribed in respect of every
taxable goods held in stock and capital goods on the date of such cancellation.
18.
Input Tax Credit.
(1)
Input tax credit shall be allowed, to registered dealers, other than the dealers covered by sub-section (2) of section 3 or
section 5, in respect of purchase of any taxable goods made within the State from a registered dealer to the extent and
in such manner as may be prescribed, for the purpose of-
(a)
sale within the State of Rajasthan; or
(b)
sale in the course of Inter-state trade and commerce; or
(c)
sale in the course of export outside the territory of India; or
(d)
being used as packing material of goods, other than exempted goods, for sale; or
(e)
being used as raw material [except those as may be notified by the State Government,]
[Inserted by Rajasthan Act No. 3 of 2007, dated 10.4.2007.]
in the manufacture of goods other than exempted goods, for sale within the State or in the course of Inter-state trade or
commerce; or
(f)
[being used as packing material of goods or as raw material in manufacture of goods for sale] [[Substituted for the
following words vide Rajasthan Act
4 of 2007
, Published in Rajasthan Government Gazette Extraordinary, Part IV-A, dated 10-4-2007, page 1(18) :-
Page 19/138
----- PAGE 20 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
'being used as raw material in the manufacture of goods for sale'.]] in the course of export outside the territory of India;
or
(g)
[ being used in the State as capital goods in manufacture of goods other than exempted goods,]
[Substituted by Rajasthan Act
No. 15 of 2011
, dated 11.4.2011.]
however, if the goods purchased are used partly for the purposes specified in this sub-section and partly as otherwise,
input tax credit shall be allowed provisions to the extent they are used for the purposes specified in this sub-section.
(2)
[ The input tax credit under sub-section (1) shall be allowed only after verification of the deposit of tax payable by the
selling dealer in the manner as may be notified by the Commissioner.]
[Substituted by Rajasthan Finance Act, 2014 (Act No. 14 of 2014), dated 31.7.2014.]
(3)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, no input tax credit shall be allowed on the purchases-
(i)
from a registered dealer who is liable to pay tax under sub-section (2) of section 3 or who has opted to pay tax under
section 5 of this Act; or
(ii)
of goods made in the course of import from outside the State; or
(iia)
[ of goods taxable at first point in the series of sales, from a registered dealer who pays tax at the first point;
[Inserted by Rajasthan Act
No. 15 of 2011
, dated 11.4.2011.]
Explanation. - For the purpose of this clause, "first point in the series of sales" means the first sale made by a registered
dealer in the State; or and]
(iii)
where the original VAT invoice or duplicate copy thereof is not available with the claimant, or there is evidence that the
same has not been issued by the selling registered dealer from whom the goods are purported to have been purchased;
or
(iv)
of goods where invoice does not show the amount of tax separately; or
(v)
where the purchasing dealer fails to prove the genuineness of the purchase transaction [XX]
[Deleted the words 'by producing the selling dealer or otherwise' by Rajasthan Act 4 of 2006, Published in Rajasthan
Government Gazette Extraordinary, Part IV-A, dated 31-3-2006, page 61(47) [1-4-2006].]
, on being asked to do so by an officer not below the rank of Assistant Commercial Taxes Officer authorised by the
Commissioner.
(3A)
[ Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, where any goods purchased in the State are subsequently sold at
subsidized price, the input tax allowable under this section in respect of such goods shall not exceed the output tax
payable on such goods.]
[Inserted by Rajasthan Act
No. 15 of 2011
, dated 11.4.2011.]
(4)
The State Government may notify cases in which partial input tax credit may be allowed subject to such conditions, as
may be notified by it.
19.
[ Input tax credit for stock on the date of commencement of this Act. [[Section 19 Substituted by Rajasthan Act 4 of
Page 20/138
----- PAGE 21 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
2006, Published in Rajasthan Government Gazette Extraordinary, Part IV-A, dated 31-3-2006, page 61(47) [1-4-2006]
for the following:-
'19. Input tax credit for stock on the date of commencement of this Act.- No input tax credit shall be allowed on the
goods in stock on the date of commencement of this Act. However, such credit on stock which was purchased on or
after 1st April, 2002 and had suffered tax under the repealed Act, shall be allowed in the manner as may be notified,
only to the dealers who have submitted the details of the stock, as required by the Commissioner under section 93 of the
repealed Act or under this Act, on the condition that such goods in stock are used for the purposes specified in clauses
(a) to (f) of sub-section (1) of section 18.']]
- Input tax credit shall be allowed on the goods other than capital goods, which had suffered tax under the repealed Act,
and are lying in stock of the dealer on the date of commencement of this Act, provided that such dealer has submitted
the details of such stock, as required by the Commissioner under section 93 of the repealed Act or section 91 of this Act,
and such goods in stock are used for the purposes specified in clauses (a) to (f) of sub-section (1) of section 18.
However, the input tax credit under this section shall be allowed to the extent of the tax paid under the repealed Act or
the amount of tax payable on such goods under this Act, whichever is less.]
20.
Payment of tax.
(1)
Tax payable under this Act shall be deposited into a Government treasury or a bank authorised to receive money on
behalf of the State Government, on the basis of accounts of a dealer in such manner and at such intervals as may be
notified by the State Government, and different intervals may be notified for different categories of dealers.
(2)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, in the case of works contract, an amount in lieu of tax shall be deducted
by the awarder at such rate as notified by the State Government not exceeding [twenty percent]
[Substituted 'six percent' by Rajasthan Finance Act, 2014 (Act No. 14 of 2014), dated 31.7.2014.]
of the total value of the contract, in such manner and under such circumstances, as may be prescribed, from every bill of
payment to a contractor and such sum shall be deposited or credited in the Government account within the specified
time and in the prescribed manner.
(2A)
[ ***]
[Deleted by Rajasthan Finance Act, 2014 (Act No. 14 of 2014), dated 31.7.2014.]
(3)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where the State Government is of the opinion that it is necessary
or expedient in the public interest so to do, it may, by notification in the Official Gazette, defer the payment of tax
payable by any class of dealers, with or without interest, for any period on such conditions and under such
circumstances as may be specified in the notification.
(4)
In case of any delay in payment of amount required to be deposited under any of the sub-sections (1), (2) and (3), the
amount of interest, under sub-section (1) of section 55 shall also be paid alongwith the amount of tax.
(5)
Every deposit of tax or deduction of amount in lieu of tax made under this section shall be deemed to be provisional
subject to adjustment against the tax liability determined in the assessment made under this Act.
(6)
[ Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, allow
the dealer, availing the facility of deferment under sub-section (3), to make prepayment of the amount of deferred tax on
such terms and conditions including the condition of remission from a part of deferred tax, as may be specified in such
notification.]
[Added by Rajasthan Act No. 3 of 2007, dated 10.4.2007.]
21.
Filing of return.
- [(1) Every registered dealer shall assess his liability under this Act, and shall furnish return, for such period, in such
form and manner, and within such time and with such late fee not exceeding fifty thousand rupees, for delayed
Page 21/138
----- PAGE 22 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
furnishing of returns, as may be prescribed, to the assessing authority or to the officer authorized by the Commissioner.]
[Substituted by Rajasthan Act
No. 15 of 2011
, dated 11.4.2011.]
(2)
Any person or a dealer as may be required by a notice to do so by the Assessing authority or by an officer authorized by
the Commissioner in this behalf, shall furnish return for such period in such form and manner and within such time as
may be specified.
(3)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where [the Commissioner]
[Substituted for the words 'the State Government' vide Rajasthan Act 4 of 2006, Published in Rajasthan Government
Gazette Extraordinary, Part IV-A, dated 31-3-2006, page 61(47).]
is of the opinion-that it is expedient in the public interest so to do may by a notification in the Official Gazette extend the
date of submission of the returns or may dispense with the requirement of filing any or all the returns by a dealer or class
of dealers.
22.
Assessment on failure to deposit tax.
(1)
Where a dealer has failed to deposit tax-in accordance with the provisions of section 20 within the notified period, the
assessing authority or the officer authorised by the Commissioner shall, without prejudice to the penal provisions in this
Act, after making such enquiry as it may consider necessary and after giving the dealer a reasonable opportunity of
being heard, assess tax for that period to the best of his judgment.
(2)
The tax assessed under sub-section (1), after adjustment of input tax credit and the amount deposited in advance in this
behalf, if any, shall be payable by the dealer within thirty days from the date of service of notice of demand. However,
the assessing authority or the officer authorised by the Commissioner, after recording reasons in writing, may reduce
such period.
(3)
The tax deposited under sub-section (2) shall be adjusted in the assessment for the relevant period.
(4)
[ No order under this section shall be passed after the last date of submission of annual return for that year.]
[Substituted by Rajasthan Finance Act, 2014 (Act No. 14 of 2014), dated 31.7.2014.]
23.
[ Self Assessment.
[Substituted by Rajasthan Finance Act, 2014 (Act No. 14 of 2014), dated 31.7.2014.]
- Every registered dealer who has furnished, all the returns under the Provisions of Section 21 or audit report as
contemplated in Section 73 along with all the returns under section 21, for the year, before issuance of any notice under
sub-section (2) of Section 24, shall, subject to the provisions of Section 24, be deemed to have been assessed on the
basis of such returns and such audit report, as the case may be.]
24.
[ Assessment.
[Substituted by Rajasthan Finance Act, 2014 (Act No. 14 of 2014), dated 31.7.2014.]
(1)
Assessment of a dealer shall be for a year and it shall be made after the last date of furnishing of annual return for the
year. However, the assessment of a closed business may be made immediately after its closure.
(2)
Every return furnished by a registered dealer shall be subject to such scrutiny as may be determined by the
Commissioner, to verify its correctness and if any error is detected, in any return or returns, the assessing authority or
the officer authorised by the Commissioner shall serve a notice in the prescribed form on the dealer to rectification of the
errors and the dealer may file a revised return within such period as specified therein.
(3)
Page 22/138
----- PAGE 23 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
Where the dealer, in pursuance of the notice issued under sub-section (2),-
(a)
furnishes the revised return or returns, as the case may be, in terms of the notice and deposits the tax, interest, late fee,
if any, he shall be deemed to have been assessed under section 23;
(b)
does not furnish revised return or returns, as the case may be, or the revised return or return, as the case may be,
furnished by the dealer is not in terms of the notice, the assessing authority or the officer authorised by the
Commissioner, after giving an opportunity of being heard to the dealer and after conducting such enquiry as he may
consider necessary, shall assess the dealer to the best of his judgment on the basis of the material available on record.
(4)
Where a dealer, fails to furnish return in accordance with the provisions of Section 21, the assessing authority or the
officer authorised by the Commissioner, after giving an opportunity of being heard to the dealer and after conducting
such enquiry as he may consider necessary, shall assess the dealer to the best of his judgment on the basis of the
material available on record and shall impose a penalty, for non-filing of returns, of an amount equal to twenty percent of
the net tax payable subject to a minimum of the five thousand rupees.
(5)
No assessment order under this section shall be passed after the expiry of two years from the end of the relevant year.
However, the Commissioner may for reasons to be recorded in writing, extend such time limit in any particular case by a
period not exceeding six months;
[Provided further that the assessment for the year 2013-14 shall be made up to 31.07.2016.]
(6)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (5), where an proceeding relating to an assessment is subject to
adjudication before the Tax Board or a competent court or any other authority under this Act, assessment in such
matters may be passed within two years from the final adjudication of such proceedings. The limitation of two years shall
be counted from the date of communication of the order of such final adjudication to the assessing authority.]
25.
Assessment in case of avoidance or evasion of tax.
(1)
Where the assessing authority or any officer authorized by the Commissioner in this behalf has reasons to believe that a
dealer has avoided or evaded tax or has not paid tax in accordance with law or has availed input tax credit wrongly, he
may after giving the dealer a reasonable opportunity of being heard, determine at any time and for any period, that
taxable turnover of such dealer on which tax has been avoided or evaded or has not been paid in accordance with law
or wrong input tax credit has been availed and assess the tax to the best of his judgment.
(2)
The tax assessed under sub-section (1), after adjustment of input tax credit and the amount deposited in advance in this
behalf, if any, shall be payable by the dealer within thirty days from the date of service of the notice of demand. However
the assessing authority or any officer authorized by the Commissioner, after recording in writing, may reduce such
period.
(3)
The assessment under sub-section (1) shall not be made after the expiry of a period of six months from the date of
making out the case. However, the Commissioner may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, in any particular case,
extend the time limit for a further period not exceeding six months.
(4)
[ Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, where notice has been issued under sub-section (1), the authority
issuing such notice shall be competent to make the assessment for the relevant year;
(5)
No notice under sub-section (1) shall be issued after the expiry of five years from the end of the relevant year.
(6)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-sections (3) and (5), where any proceeding relating to an assessment is
subject to adjudication before the Tax Board or a competent court or any other authority under this Act, Assessment in
such proceedings. The limitation of two years shall be counted from the date of communication of the order of such final
Page 23/138
----- PAGE 24 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
adjudication to the assessing authority.]
[Substituted by Rajasthan Finance Act, 2014 (Act No. 14 of 2014), dated 31.7.2014.]
26.
Escaped assessment.
(1)
An assessment- (a) of a person who is liable to get registration but has not got himself registered; or
(b)
in which, for any reason, the levy of tax or any fee or sum payable under this Act has been escaped wholly or in part; or
(c)
wherein tax has been wholly or in part unassessed or under-assessed in any way or under any circumstances,
shall be deemed to be an escaped assessment and the assessing authority or the officer authorized by the
Commissioner, shall on the basis of the material on record or after making such enquiry as it may consider necessary,
complete such assessment within the time limit provided in sub-section (3).
[***]
[Deleted 'Explanation' by Rajasthan Finance Act, 2014 (Act No. 14 of 2014), dated 31.7.2014.]
(2)
Where the Commissioner or the Deputy Commissioner (Administration) has reason to believe that a dealer has escaped
assessment to tax in any manner provided in sub-section (1), he may at any time, subject to the time limit specified in
sub-section (3), either direct the assessing authority or the officer authorized by the Commissioner, to assess the tax or
the fee or other sum or himself proceed to assess the same.
(3)
[ No notice under sub-sections (1) shall be issued after the expiry of five years, and no assessment under this section
shall be made after the expiry of eight years, from the end of the relevant year.
(3-A) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (3), where any proceeding relating to an assessment is subject
to adjudication before the Tax Board or a competent court or any other authority under this Act, assessment in such
matters may be passed within two years from the final adjudication of such proceedings. The limitation of two years shall
be counted from the date of communication of the order of such final adjudication to the assessing authority.]
[Substituted by Rajasthan Finance Act, 2014 (Act No. 14 of 2014), dated 31.7.2014.]
(4)
The assessment, if any, already made shall be subject to the assessment made under this section.
27.
Audit of the dealer.
(1)
With a view to promoting compliance with the provisions of this Act, the Commissioner may arrange for audit of the
business of such of the registered dealers who are selected by the Commissioner on the basis of the application of any
criterion or on a random selection basis or in respect of whom the Commissioner has reasons to believe that detail
scrutiny of their business is necessary.
(2)
The audit of the dealer shall be conducted by the auditor in the prescribed manner.
(3)
The auditor while conducting audit shall exercise the powers provided under section 75 and shall examine the books of
accounts, stock in trade and the related documents of the dealer of the audit period.
(4)
If on such audit, the returns filed by the dealer are not found to be correct, or any avoidance or evasion of tax is detected
the auditor shall, issue a show cause notice to the dealer containing details of discrepancies detected.
(5)
On receipt of the reply to notice issued under sub-section (4), the auditor shall after considering the reply of the dealer
assess his tax and other related liabilities and get such order approved from his immediate higher officer before its
issuance to the dealer alongwith the demand notice. Where the dealer fails to submit the reply, the auditor shall proceed
to assess the liability of the dealer under this Act, to the best of his judgment. Such assessment shall be deemed to be
the assessment, of the dealer for the relevant period and assessment if any, already made shall be subject to the
Page 24/138
----- PAGE 25 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
assessment made under this section.
(6)
[ No notice under sub-section (4) shall be issued after the expiry of five years, and no assessment under this section
shall be made after the expiry of eight years, from the end of the relevant year.
(7)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (6), where any proceeding relating to an assessment is subject to
adjudication before the Tax Board or a competent court or any other authority under this Act, assessment in such
matters may be passed within two years from the final adjudication of such proceedings. The limitation of two years shall
be counted from the date of communication of the order of such final adjudication to the assessing authority.]
[Added by Rajasthan Finance Act, 2014 (Act No. 14 of 2014), dated 31.7.2014.]
28.
Assessment in case of a casual trader.
(1)
A casual trader shall immediately on completion of a transaction of sale or purchase, for which he is liable to pay tax,
report to the assessing authority having jurisdiction with reference to the place of such transaction or to the Incharge of
the nearest check-post or barrier, the amount of sale or purchase price and the tax payable thereon and shall deposit
the amount of tax with such assessing authority or Incharge of the check-post or barrier within such time and in such
manner as such authority or Incharge may direct.
(2)
Where a casual trader fails to make a report as required under sub-section (1), the assessing authority having
jurisdiction or the Incharge of the nearest check-post or barrier may require such casual trader to make a report of the
sale or purchase price and the tax due, failing which such assessing authority or Incharge of the check-post or barrier
may assess to the best of its judgement the amount of tax due and direct the casual trader to pay the amount of tax
within such time and in such manner as it may direct.
(3)
Where a casual trader fails to pay the tax as directed by the assessing authority or the Incharge of the check-post or
barrier under sub-section (1) or (2), the goods belonging to such casual trader shall be detained until the tax is paid or
adequate security for payment of tax is furnished.
(4)
No order under sub-section (1) shall be passed after the expiry of one year from the date of making the report, and
under sub-section (2) after the expiry of two years from the date of completion of the transaction.
(5)
The amount of tax payable by a casual trader under subsection (1) or (2) shall be deemed to be a demand payable by a
registered dealer and all the provisions of recovery under this Act shall apply accordingly to such demand.
(6)
The assessing authority may authorise in writing any official subordinate to it to perform all or any of its functions to be
performed under this section.
(7)
The assessing authority may, suo motu or on an application of the casual trader, filed within thirty days of the date of
deposit or realisation of tax, review or revise any order passed or action taken by the subordinate official, authorised
under sub-section (6).
29.
Assessment in special cases.
(1)
Minor and incapacitated person - In the case of any guardian, trustee or agent of any minor or other incapacitated
person carrying on business on behalf of and for the benefit of such minor or other incapacitated person, the tax shall be
levied upon and recoverable from such guardian, trustee or agent, as the case may be, in the like manner and to the
same extent as it would be leviable upon and recoverable from any other person, and all the provisions of this Act and
the rules made thereunder shall apply accordingly.
(2)
Estate under Court of Wards or business managed by other agencies. - Where the estate of a dealer, whether complete
Page 25/138
----- PAGE 26 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
or part thereof, is under the control of Court of Wards, or where the business of a dealer is managed by the
Administrator, the Official Trustee, the Official Liquidator or Receiver or any Manager or Controller, appointed by him or
under the orders of a court, the tax shall be levied upon and recoverable from such Court of Wards, Administrator,
Official Trustee, Official Liquidator or Receiver or Manager or Controller in the like manner and to the same extent as it
would be leviable upon and recoverable from the dealer and all the provisions of this Act and the rules made thereunder
shall apply accordingly.
30.
Assessment of a dissolved firm.
- In the case of a dissolved partnership firm, assessment thereof under this Act shall be made in the same manner as if
the firm had not been dissolved.
31.
Rounding off of tax, interest and penalty.
(1)
The amount of tax, interest, penalty or any other sum payable and the amount of refund due, under the provisions of this
Act, shall be rounded off to the nearest multiple of ten rupees and, for this purpose, where such amount contains a part
of ten rupees, if such part is five rupees or more, it shall be increased to ten rupees and if such part is less than five
rupees, it shall be ignored.
(2)
Nothing contained in sub-section (1) shall apply to any collection by a dealer of any amount by way of tax in respect of
any sale or purchase made by him of goods under this Act.
32.
Want of form not to affect proceedings.
- Any notice, summons, assessment order, demand notice, order of attachment or any other order passed under this
Act, which purports to be made in pursuance of any provision of this Act or the Rules, shall not be deemed to be void or
voidable and shall not be quashed for want of the prescribed form, or to be affected by reason of a mistake, defect or
omission therein, if the same is in substance and effect in conformity with or according to the intent and meaning of this
Act and the Rules.
33.
Rectification of a mistake.
(1)
With a view to rectifying any mistake apparent from the record, any officer appointed or any authority constituted under
this Act may rectify suo motu or otherwise any order passed by him.
Explanation. - A mistake apparent from the record shall include an order which was valid when it was made and is
subsequently rendered invalid by an amendment of the law having retrospective operation or by a judgment of the
Supreme Court, the Rajasthan High Court or the Rajasthan Tax Board.
(2)
No application for rectification shall be filed under sub-section (1) after the expiry of a period of three years from the date
of the order sought to be rectified.
(3)
Where an application under sub-section (1) is [presented to the assessing authority]
[Substituted 'presented to the assessing authority, appellate authority or Tax Board' by Rajasthan Act No. 3 of 2007,
dated 10.4.2007.]
and a receipt thereof is obtained, it shall be disposed of [within a period of six months]
[Substituted 'within a period of one year' by Rajasthan Act No. 5 of 2016, dated 9.4.2016.]
from the date of presentation and where such application is not disposed of within the said period; the same shall be
deemed to have been accepted:
[Provided that the application pending before assessing authority on 1st April, 2016 shall be disposed of up to 30th
September, 2016 or within one year from the date of presentation thereof, whichever is earlier.]
[Added by Rajasthan Act No. 5 of 2016, dated 9.4.2016.]
(4)
No rectification under this section shall be made after the expiry of four years from the date of the order sought to be
Page 26/138
----- PAGE 27 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
rectified.
(5)
An order of rectification which has the effect of increasing the liability of a dealer in any way, shall not, be made without
affording him on opportunity of being heard.
34.
Reopening of ex-parte assessment.
(1)
Where an assessment has been made ex-parte under section 22 or [clause (b) of sub-section (2) of Section 24, clause
(c) of sub-section (3) of Section 24, sub-section (4) of Section 24]
[Substituted 'clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section 24' by Rajasthan Act No. 7 of 2009, dated 4.2.2009.]
or section 25 or section 26, or section 27, the Deputy Commissioner (Administration) may, on the application of the
dealer made within thirty days of the date of service of the notice of demand in consequence of such assessment along
with such fee as may be prescribed, by an order direct the assessing authority or the officer authorised by the
Commissioner as the case may be, to cancel the assessment and proceed to make a fresh assessment in accordance
with the provisions of law.
(2)
Before issuing direction under sub-section (1), the Deputy Commissioner (Administration) should be satisfied that the
applicant dealer did not receive notice or summons issued to him under section 25 or section 26, or section 27 or that he
was prevented by sufficient cause from complying with any notice or summons issued to him for assessment.
(3)
Where the order for cancellation of the assessment under subsection (1) has been passed, the assessing authority or
the officer authorised by the Commissioner as the case may be, shall make fresh assessment within sixty days from the
communication of the order passed by the Deputy Commissioner (Administration) under sub-section (1).
35.
Stay of proceeding.
- No civil court or any other authority shall stay assessment proceedings purported to be initiated or already initiated
under this Act.
36.
Determination of disputed questions.
(1)
Where any question arises, otherwise than in proceedings before a court, or in any proceeding under section 22, 24, 25
and 26, whether for the purpose of this Act,-
(a)
any person is a dealer; or
(b)
any particular dealer is required to be registered; or
(c)
any transaction is a sale, and if so the sale price thereof; or
(d)
any tax is payable in respect of any particular sale or purchase or if tax is payable, the point and the rate thereof; or
(e)
any particular thing done to any goods amounts to or results in the manufacture of goods; or
(f)
any dealer is entitled to any particular amount of input tax credit,
on being filing of the application in the prescribed manner, the Commissioner shall make an order determining such
question.
(2)
Where any such question arises from any order already passed under this Act, no such question shall be entertained for
determination under this section, but such question may be raised by the party concerned in the appeal against, or by
way of revision of such order.
(3)
Page 27/138
----- PAGE 28 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
The Commissioner under sub-section (1) may direct that the determination shall not affect the liability of any person
under this Act, in respect of any sale or purchase effected prior to the determination.
(4)
Where an order of the Commissioner passed in sub-section (1) is modified in any way in appeal or revision, the modified
order shall be effective from the date of order passed in such appeal or revision.
37.
Transfer of cases.
(1)
A dealer may make an application on plain paper to the Commissioner to transfer any case under this Act from one
officer or authority to other officer or authority on the following grounds, namely:-
(a)
Dispute of jurisdiction; or
(b)
Apprehension of miscarriage of justice; or
(c)
Business convenience.
(2)
In the face of cogent reasons adduced by a dealer in his application filed under sub-section (1), notwithstanding
anything contained in section 35, the Commissioner may stay the proceeding of the case ex-parte for a period not
exceeding one month and in no case beyond a period exceeding three months and such period of stay shall be
excluded from the period of the time limit specified in respect of the disposal of such case.
(3)
The Commissioner may after due notice to the dealer, by order in writing transfer a case from one officer or authority to
other officer or authority; however, no notice to the dealer shall be necessary where the transfer is from one officer or
authority to other officer or authority, whose offices are situated in the same city, town or village.
(4)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-sections (1), (2) and (3), the Commissioner may, at any time, for
administrative reasons, transfer any case or cases from one officer or authority to other officer or authority, without
issuing any notice to the dealer or dealers concerned.
Explanation. - The word "case" in relation to any dealer under this section shall mean any proceeding pending under this
Act on the date of the order made under sub-section (2) or which may have been completed on or before such date or
which may commence after such date.
Chapter V
Tax Liability, Recovery and Refund
38.
Liability for payment of tax or demand.
(1)
The tax or the demand shall be payable by a dealer or a person on the basis of an assessment or an order passed,
under this Act.
Explanation I. - The interest, penalty, or any sum payable under this Act shall be deemed to be tax for the purpose of
collection, recovery and for all matters ancillary or incidental thereto.
Explanation II. - The demand shall include any amount payable by a person or a dealer under this Act or the rules.
(2)
The tax paid by a dealer or a person shall be adjusted against the tax determined as a result of an assessment or the
amount held payable in pursuance of an order passed, under this Act and the balance of the amount shall be payable by
such dealer or person within thirty days from the date of service of the notice, or within a period of less than thirty days,
as may be determined by the Assessing Authority or auditor or any other authority authorised by the Commissioner in
the special circumstances and for reasons to be recorded in writing.
(3)
In default of the payment of tax or demand payable under subsection (1) or sub-section (2), the amount of tax or
demand shall be recoverable in accordance with the provisions of this Act including the provisions of the Rajasthan Land
Page 28/138
----- PAGE 29 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
Revenue Act, 1956 (Act
No. 15 of 1956
) and the Revenue Recovery Act, 1890 (Central Act No. 1 of 1890).
(4)
Where a dealer or a person has filled an appeal to the Appellate Authority against an order passed by an assessing
authority or any other officer, the said Appellate Authority may, after registering such appeal and after having heard the
appellant and the assessing authority or officer or any representative thereof, stay the recovery of the disputed amount
of tax or demand or any part thereof for a period of six months from the date of such order or till the disposal of the
appeal, whichever is earlier, on the condition that the said dealer or the person furnishes sufficient security to the
satisfaction of, the Assessing Authority or the officer, as the case may be, in such form and in such manner as may be
prescribed. However, the appellate authority may for reasons to be recorded in writing continue such stay beyond the
aforesaid period of six months for a further period not exceeding six months:
[Provided that where an application for stay is not disposed of within a period of thirty days from its filing and the delay is
not attributable to the applicant, the same shall be deemed to have been accepted subject to the condition that such
dealer or person furnishes sufficient security to the satisfaction o.f the Assessing Authority or the officer, as the case
may be, in such form and in such manner as may be prescribed:
[Added by Rajasthan Act
No. 13 of 2009
, dated 11.8.2009.]
[Provided further that no security under this section shall be required to be furnished by a department of the Central
Government or the State Government or a public sector undertaking, corporation or company owned or controlled by the
Central Government or the State Government.]
[Added by Rajasthan Act
No. 15 of 2011
, dated 11.4.2011.]
(5)
The assessing authority may, subject to such conditions and restrictions as may be prescribed, in respect of any
particular dealer or person and for reasons to be recorded in writing, extend the date of such payment and allow such
dealer or person to pay any demand in installments on the condition that the said dealer or the person furnishes
sufficient security to the satisfaction or assessing authority.
(6)
(a)
Where the recovery of tax or demand or any part thereof is stayed under sub-section (4), the amount of such tax or
demand ultimately found due shall be recoverable with interest as per provisions of this Act, and such interest shall be
payable on such amount from the date the tax or demand first become due.
(b)
Where the payment of tax or demand is postponed by installments under sub-section (5), the dealer or the person shall
be required to pay interest for the amount postponed and the period extended in accordance with the provisions of this
Act.
(7)
[ Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act the State Government may defer the recovery of demand payable by an
industrial unit declared sick under the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985 as amended from time
to time (Central Act No. 1 of 1986) to such extent, for such period and on such conditions with regard to the payment or
rate of interest as may be deemed proper.]
[Substituted by Rajasthan Finance Act, 2014 (Act No. 14 of 2014), dated 31.7.2014.]
39.
Liability of a surety.
- The liability of a surety under this Act shall be co-extensive to the extent of the amount of security with that of the
defaulting dealer and all the modes of recovery enforceable against the dealer shall be simultaneously enforceable
against the surety.
40.
Page 29/138
----- PAGE 30 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
Liability of the representatives of a deceased person.
(1)
Where a person dies and his business devolves by virtue of his death upon any other person, such other person shall be
liable all obligations and liabilities in respect of such business under this Act and he shall within thirty days of the
development of such business apply for registration.
(2)
Where a person dies and his executor, administrator or other legal representative does not continue his business except
for the purpose of winding it up, such executor, administrator or legal representative shall be assessed as if he were the
dealer and shall be liable to pay out of the estate of the deceased person, to the extent to which the estate is capable of
meeting the charge, the tax assessed or other demand payable under this Act.
41.
Liability on dissolution, discontinuance or partition of business.
- Where any business carried on by a firm, an association of persons or a Hindu Undivided Family liable to pay tax, is
dissolved or discontinued permanently or where such Hindu Undivided Family is partitioned-
(a)
such firm, association or family shall be liable to pay tax in respect of the turnover of the goods and other articles
including plant and machinery of such firm, association or family as if there was no such dissolution, discontinuance or
partition and all the provisions of this Act shall apply accordingly;
(b)
such firm, association or family, as the case may be, shall be liable to pay tax on the goods and other articles including
plant and machinery allotted to any partner or member thereof as if the goods or other articles including plant and
machinery had been sold to such partner or member unless he holds a certificate of registration or obtains it within a
period of three months from the date of such allotment;
(c)
every person who was at the time of such dissolution, discontinuance or partition, partner or member of such firm,
association or family and the legal representative of any such person who is deceased, shall, in respect of the turnover
of such firm, association or family, be jointly and severally liable to assessment and payment of tax or other sum, and all
the provisions of this Act, so far as may be, shall apply to such assessment and the liability for payment of tax or other
sum;
(d)
every person who obtains the whole or any part of the stock relating to the business of such firm, association of persons
or Hindu Undivided Family, and gets himself registered within a period of three months from the date he obtains such
stock, shall be liable to pay tax on the sale or purchase of the goods made by him with effect from the date of such
dissolution, discontinuance or partition, as the case may be.
42.
Liability on transfer of business.
(1)
When the ownership of the business of a dealer liable to pay tax is entirely transferred in any manner, any tax or other
sum payable in respect of such business and remaining unpaid at the time of the transfer, shall be payable by the
transferee, as if he were the dealer liable to pay tax or other sum; and for the liability to tax accruing from the date of
such transfer, he shall within thirty days of the transfer apply for registration, unless he already holds a certificate of
registration.
Explanation. - "Transfer of entire ownership of business" means,-
(a)
transfer of business assets, debits and credits and stocks in trade, input tax credit, if any; or
(b)
transfer of land, building and plant and machinery.
(2)
When a dealer liable to pay tax transfers the ownership of a part of his business, the transferor shall be liable to pay tax
in respect of the stock of goods and other articles including plant and machinery transferred along with the part of his
business which is not transferred, as if the goods and other articles including plant and machinery have been sold by
Page 30/138
----- PAGE 31 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
him, unless the transferee holds a certificate of registration or obtains it within a period of three months from the date of
such transfer.
43.
Liability of principal and agent.
(1)
When an agent sells any taxable goods on behalf of his principal, such agent and his principal shall both be jointly and
severally liable to pay tax on such sales.
(2)
Notwithstanding that a principal may not be liable to tax on the sale or purchase of any goods made within the State for
any reason, nevertheless his agent shall be liable to pay tax on the sale or purchase of goods in accordance with the
provisions of this Act.
44.
Liability of firms and partners.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, when any firm, existing or dissolved is liable to pay tax under this Act,
such firm as well as each of the partners of such firm shall be jointly and severally liable to pay such tax.
(2)
When any partner retires from a firm before it is dissolved, he shall be liable to pay the tax, if any, remaining unpaid at
the time of his retirement and also the tax, leviable up to the date of his retirement through it may be unassessed on the
date.
45.
Liability of Directors of a private company.
- Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 (Central Act No. 1 of 1956), where any tax and other sums
recoverable under this Act from any private company, whether existing or wound up or under liquidation, can not be
recovered for any reason whatsoever, every person who was a director, at any time during the period for which the tax
or other sums are due, shall be jointly and severally liable for the payment of such tax and other sums unless he proves
to the satisfaction of the assessing authority that the non-payment of tax or other sums can not be attributed to any
gross neglect, misfeasance or breach of duty on his part.
46.
Liability in case of amalgamation of companies.
(1)
When two or more companies are to be amalgamated by the order of a court or of the Central Government and the
order is to take effect from the date earlier to the date of the order and any two or more of such companies have sold or
purchased any goods to or from each other in the period commencing on the date from which the order is to take effect
and ending on the date of the order, then such transactions of sale and purchase shall be included in the turnover of
sales or of purchases of the respective companies and shall be assessed to tax accordingly.
(2)
Notwithstanding anything contained in the said order of amalgamation, for all of the purposes of this Act, the said two or
more companies shall be treated as distinct companies for all periods up to the date of the said order and the
registration certificates of the said companies shall be cancelled, where necessary, with effect from the date of said
order.
(3)
Any tax or other sum found recoverable under this Act for the period prior to the operative date of amalgamation, from
the company being amalgamated, shall b payable by the company formed after amalgamation.
(4)
Words and expressions used in this section, but not defined shall have the respective meanings assigned to them in the
Companies Act, 1956 (Central Act No. 1 of 1956).
47.
Liability under this Act to be the first charge.
- Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any law for the time being in force, any amount of tax and any
other sum payable by a dealer or any other person under this Act, shall be first charge on the property of such dealer or
Page 31/138
----- PAGE 32 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
person.
48.
Certain transfers to be void.
- Where during the pendency of any proceeding for the determination of any liability to tax, interest, penalty or other sum
under this Act, if any dealer or a person against whom such proceeding is pending, creates a charge on, or parts with
the possession by way of sale, mortgage, exchange, gift or any other mode of alienation whatsoever, of any of his
assets in favour of any other person, such charge, transfer, gift or alienation shall be void as against any claim in respect
of any tax, interest, penalty or other sum payable by such dealer or person, which arises as a result of the said
proceeding, except when-
(a)
such dealer or person has no notice of such proceeding pending against him; and
(b)
such transfer is made for adequate valuable consideration.
49.
General mode of recovery.
- Without prejudice to other provisions of this Act, where any tax or other sum payable by a dealer or a person under this
Act is not paid in accordance with the provisions of this Act or the rules made or notifications issued thereunder, it shall
be recoverable as an arrear of land revenue and the assessing authority or any other authority authorised by the
Commissioner, shall be empowered to recover such tax or other sum by attachment and sale of movable or immovable
property of such dealer or person and all the provisions of the Rajasthan Land Revenue Act, 1956 (Act
No. 15 of 1956
) read with the Rajasthan Land Revenue (Payments, Credits, Refunds and Recovery) Rules, 1958 shall mutatis
mutandis apply.
50.
Special mode of recovery.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in section 49 or any law or contract to the contrary, the assessing authority or any
other authority authorised by the Commissioner may, at any time or from time to time by notice in writing, a copy off
which shall be sent to the dealer at his last known address, require,-
(a)
any person from whom any amount is due or may become due to a dealer who has failed to pay due tax or other sum on
demand by the assessing authority; or
(b)
any person who holds or may subsequently hold any money for or on account of such dealer,
to pay into the Government Treasury or the Bank authorised to receive money on behalf of the State Government, in the
manner specified in the notice issued under this section either forthwith or upon the money becoming due from him or
being held by him, within the time specified in the notice (not being before the money becomes due or it is held), so
much of the money as is sufficient to pay the amount due from the dealer in respect of the demand of tax and other sum
under this Act, or the whole of the money when it is equal to or less than that demand.
Explanation. - For the purpose of this sub-section, the amount due to a dealer or money held for or on account of a
dealer by any person shall be computed after taking into account such claims, if any, as may have fallen legally due for
payment by such dealer, to such person.
(2)
The authority issuing a notice under sub-section (1) may at any time, or from time to time, amend or revoke any such
notice or extend the time for making any payment in pursuance of this notice.
(3)
Any person making any payment in compliance with a notice issued under sub-section (1) shall be deemed to have
made the payment under the authority of the dealer and the treasury receipt or the challan of the bank for such payment
shall constitute a good and sufficient proof of discharge of the liability of such person to the extent of the amount
specified in the receipt or the challan.
(4)
Page 32/138
----- PAGE 33 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
Any person, who discharges any liability by making payment to the dealer or otherwise, after service on him of the notice
issued under sub-section (1), shall be personally liable to the State Government to the extent of the liability discharged
or the amount of demand, whichever is less.
(5)
Any amount or money which a person is required to pay under sub-section (1) or for which he is personally liable to the
State Government under sub-section (4) shall, if it remains unpaid, be recoverable in accordance with the provisions of
this Act.
(6)
The provisions of this section shall be without prejudice to any action that may be taken for the recovery of the arrears of
tax and other sum, if any, due from a dealer.
Explanation. - For the purposes of this section dealer includes a person from whom any sum is recoverable under this
Act.
51.
Power to reduce or waive interest and penalty in certain cases.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the Commissioner may, on an application made in this behalf by a dealer
and after having got conducted such enquiry as he deems necessary and after recording his reasons in writing for so
doing, reduce or waive, the amount of interest or penalty or both payable by such dealer under this Act, if he is satisfied
that-
(a)
the dealer is under financial hardship and is not in position to make full payment of the demand; or
(b)
to do otherwise would cause genuine hardship to the dealer.
(2)
Every order made under this section shall be final and shall not be called in question by any civil court or any other
authority.
51A.
Power of State Government to waive penalty and interest in certain cases.
- Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the State Government in the public interest, by notification in Official
Gazette, may reduce or waive any amount of [interest or penalty or late fee]
[Substituted 'interest or penalty' by Rajasthan Act No. 5 of 2016, dated 9.4.2016.]
payable for any period by any class of dealers, subject to such terms and conditions as may be specified in the
notification.
51B.
[ Rebate of tax.
[Inserted by Rajasthan Finance Act, 2014 (Act No. 14 of 2014), dated 31.7.2014.]
- Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, if the State Government is of the opinion that it is expedient in the
public interest so to do, it may, by notification in the Official Gazette, and subject to such conditions as may be specified
therein, allow, whether prospectively or retrospectively, a rebate up to the full amount of tax to such dealers or class of
dealers as may be specified in the notification.]
52.
Power to write off demand.
- Where a demand against a dealer payable under this Act including the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 (Central Act No. 74
of 1956) has been outstanding for more than ten years from the dare it became due and such demand has been
rendered irrecoverable for want of any kind of property for being attached and sold, without prejudice to the provisions of
other law or rules providing for writing off of demands, such demand may be written off through an order in writing, in the
manner prescribed-
(a)
by the Assistant Commercial Taxes Officer, if it does not exceed rupees ten thousand;
(b)
by the Assistant Commissioner or the Commercial Taxes Officer, as the case may be, if it exceed rupees ten thousand
Page 33/138
----- PAGE 34 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
but does not exceed rupees twenty five thousand;
(c)
by the Deputy Commissioner (Administration), if it exceeds rupees twenty five thousand but does not exceed rupees one
lac;
(d)
by the Commissioner, if it exceeds rupees one lac but does not exceed rupees ten lacs; and
(e)
by the State Government, if it exceeds rupees ten lacs.
53.
Refund.
(1)
Where any amount is refundable to a dealer under the provisions of this Act, after having duly verified the fact of [deposit
of such amount]
[Substituted for the words 'deposit of such amount by him' vide Rajasthan Act
4 of 2007
, Published in Rajasthan Government Gazette Extraordinary, Part IV-A, dated 10-4-2007, page 1(18).]
, the assessing authority or the officer authorised by the Commissioner, shall in the prescribed manner refund to such
dealer the amount to be refunded either by cash payment or by adjustment against the tax or other sum due in respect
of any tax period.
[Provided that in case of the dealer who files returns electronically and also opts for' quarterly assessment under
sub-section (2) of section 23, refund may be made provisionally to the extent of fifty percent of the refundable amount
subject to the condition of subsequent verification of the deposit of refundable amount.]
[Added by Rajasthan Act
No. 13 of 2009
, dated 11.8.2009.]
(2)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, where a registered dealer files a return and claims refund on account of
sales in the course of export outside the territory of India, the assessing authority or officer authorised by the
Commissioner may require such dealer to furnish such documents as may be prescribed and after having been satisfied
shall within thirty days from the date of such claim, grant the dealer a refund in cash.
(3)
Where an amount or tax is collected from any person who is not registered under this Act and such amount or tax is not
found payable by him, or where an amount in lieu of tax for any works contract is deducted in any manner by an awarder
from any bill o payment to a contractor, who is not liable to pay tax under this Act, the amount so collected or deducted
shall be refunded in the prescribed manner by the Assistant Commissioner or the Commercial Taxes Officer, as the
case may be, in whose territorial jurisdiction such person or contractor ordinarily resides; and where such person or
contractor does not reside in the State, then such refund shall be made by such officer as may be directed by the
Commissioner.
(3A)
[ Where any amount has been deposited wrongly or in excess, by a dealer and it is found that such amount is not
payable or has been deposited in excess of the amount payable by the dealer for the tax period mentioned in the
challan, the Commissioner or any officer as authorised by the Commissioner in this behalf shall direct the assessing
authority to grant refund of the said amount in the manner as prescribed.]
[Inserted by Rajasthan Act No. 5 of 2016, dated 9.4.2016.]
(4)
[ Where refund of any amount becomes due to a dealer, he shall be entitled to receive, in addition to the amount of
refund, simple interest at such rate as may be notified by the State Government with effect from 1st April of the year
immediately following the year to which it relates upto the date of payment:
Provided that where the dealer has paid any amount of tax after the closing of the year and such amount is required to
be refunded, no interest shall be payable for the period prior to the date of the deposit of such amount.]
[Substituted by Rajasthan Finance Act, 2014 (Act No. 14 of 2014), dated 31.7.2014.]
Page 34/138
----- PAGE 35 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
(5)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this section or in any other law for the time being in force, only the dealer or the
person, who has actually suffered the incidence of tax or has paid the amount, can claim a refund and the burden of
proving the incidence of tax so suffered or the amount so paid shall be on the dealer or the person claiming the refund.
(6)
[ Where tax is collected on any official or personal purchase by Foreign Diplomatic Missions or their Diplomats or by UN
Bodies or their Diplomats, it shall be refunded to such person or Mission or Bodies, as the case may be, within thirty
days of the receipt of the application, by such officer as may be authorised by the State Government in this behalf by
notification.]
[Inserted by Rajasthan Act 4 of 2006, Published in Rajasthan Government Gazette Extraordinary, Part IV-A, dated
31-3-2006, page 61(47) [1-4-2006].]
54.
Power to obtain security or withhold refund in certain cases.
- Where an order giving rise to refund is subject matter of an appeal, revision or other proceeding and such appeal,
revision or other proceeding is contemplated or pending, and the officer concerned or the assessing authority for
reasons to be recorded in writing is of the opinion that the grant of the refund is likely to adversely affect the State
revenue, the said officer or the assessing authority may, with previous approval of the Commissioner, either obtain the
security equal to the amount to be refunded to the dealer or the person or withhold the refund till such time as the
Commissioner may determine.
Chapter VI
Interest, Penalties, Composition and Prosecution
55.
Interest on failure to pay tax or other sum payable.
(1)
Where any person or a dealer commits a default in making the payment of any amount of-
(a)
tax leviable or payable; or
(b)
any amount of tax, fee, penalty or interest assessed or determined; or
(c)
any other amount payable by him,
within the specified time under the provisions of this Act or the rules made or notifications issued thereunder, he shall be
liable to pay interest on such amount at such rate, as may be notified by the State Government from time to time, for the
period commencing from the day immediately succeeding the date specified for such payment and ending with the day
on which such payment is made.
(2)
Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2) of section 66, interest under sub-section (1) shall be calculated-
(a)
at the time of assessment under any section or in continuation of such assessment; and
(b)
on payment including the adjustment of a demand in full.
(3)
The liability to pay interest under the provisions of this section shall also arise for a period which is less than a month.
(4)
Where a dealer, registered under this Act, has wrongly availed input tax credit or has been granted an erroneous refund
in manner, such dealer shall be liable to pay interest, at such rate as may be notified by the State Government from time
to time, on the amount of wrongly availed credit or the amount of such refund as the case may be and such interest shall
be calculated from the first day of the month succeeding the month in which the credit was wrongly availed or the refund
was erroneously granted till the day on which such payment is made.
56.
Penalty for not making application for registration.
Page 35/138
----- PAGE 36 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
- Where any person, has, without reasonable cause, failed to make an application to get himself registered as required
under the provisions of this Act, within the time specified in the Act or prescribed in the rules, the assessing authority or
the authority competent to grant him registration may direct that such person shall pay by way of penalty [a sum not
exceeding one thousand rupees.] [[Substituted by Rajasthan Act 4 of 2006, Published in Rajasthan Government Gazette
Extraordinary, Part IV-A, dated 31-3-2006, page 61(47) [1-4-2006] for the following :-
'a sum of rupees two thousand for first thirty days and thereafter in case of continued default a further penalty of rupees
twenty for every day of such default.']]
57.
Penalty for failure to furnish security or additional security.
- Where a dealer fails to furnish the initial security or the additional security as directed to be furnished under section 15
within the time specified therein, the authority competent to grant him registration or the assessing authority, as the case
may be, may direct that such person shall pay by way of penalty [a sum not exceeding rupees two thousand and a
further penalty of rupees twenty five for every day] [[Substituted by Rajasthan Act 4 of 2006, Published in Rajasthan
Government Gazette Extraordinary, Part IV-A, dated 31-3-2006, page 61(47) [1-4-2006] for the following :-
'a sum of rupees two thousand and a further penalty of rupees fifty for every day']] till the requisite security or additional
security is furnished.
58.
[
[Deleted by Rajasthan Act
No. 15 of 2011
, dated 11.4.2011.]
***]
58. [ Penalty for failure to furnish return.
[Substituted by Rajasthan Act
No. 13 of 2009
, dated 11.8.2009.]
- Where the assessing authority or any other officer not below the rank of Assistant Commercial Taxes Officer as
authorized by the Commissioner is satisfied that any dealer has, without reasonable cause, failed to furnished
prescribed returns within the time allowed, he may direct that such dealer shall pay by way of penalty.-
(i) in case the dealer is required to pay tax month under section 20, a sum equal to rupees one hundred per day for first
fifteen days of such default and thereafter a sum equal to rupees five hundred per day for the period during which the
default in furnishing such return continues, but not exceeding in the aggregate thirty percent of the tax so assessed: and
(ii) in all other cases, a sum equal to rupees fifty per day subject to a maximum limit of rupees five thousand, for the
period during which the default in furnishing of such return continues.]
59.
Penalty for not maintaining or keeping accounts.
- Where any dealer does not maintain accounts, registers and documents as required under the provisions of
sub-sections (1) and (2) of section 71, or does not keep his accounts, registers and documents at a place in accordance
with the provisions of sub-sections (3) and (4) of section 71, the assessing authority or any other officer not below the
rank of Assistant Commercial Taxes Officer as authorised by the Commissioner may direct that such person shall pay
by way of penalty [a sum not exceeding rupees five thousand and in case of continuing default a further penalty of
rupees fifty for every day of such continuance.] [[Substituted by Rajasthan Act 4 of 2006, Published in Rajasthan
Government Gazette Extraordinary, Part IV-A, dated 31-3-2006, page 61(47) [1-4-2006] for the following :-
'a sum of rupees five thousand and in case of continuing default a further penalty of one hundred rupees for every day of
such continuance.']]
60.
Forfeiture and penalty for unauthorised collection of tax.
(1)
Where any person-
(a)
not being a registered dealer or being a registered dealer not liable to pay tax under this Act, collects any amount by
Page 36/138
----- PAGE 37 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
way of tax; or
(b)
who being a registered dealer, collects any amount by way of tax in excess of the tax payable by him; or
(c)
who otherwise collects tax in contravention of any of the provisions of this Act,
the assessing authority or any other officer, not below the rank of an Assistant Commercial Taxes Officer authorised by
the Commissioner, shall by an order forfeit the amount so collected.
(2)
Where any person or dealer has collected any amount in the manner specified in sub-section (1), the assessing
authority or any other officer not below the rank of an Assistant Commercial Taxes Officer authorised by the
Commissioner, may direct such person or dealer to pay, in addition to the amount forfeited under sub-section (1), a
penalty equal to double the amount of tax which has been so collected by him.
61.
Penalty for avoidance or evasion of tax.
- [(1) Where any dealer has-
(a)
disclosed taxable turnover of sale of goods in any return furnished by him at a lower rate of tax than the rate of tax as
specified under this Act or otherwise furnished inaccurate particulars deliberately in the return furnished by him; or
(b)
incorporated any transaction of sale or purchase in his accounts, registers or documents required to be maintained by
him under this Act at a lower rate of tax than the rate of tax as specified under this Act; or
(c)
concealed any particulars from any return furnished by him; or
(d)
concealed any transactions of sale or purchase from his accounts, registers or documents required to be maintained by
him under this Act; or
(e)
failed to get himself registered as required under Section 11 of this Act and has avoided tax; or
(f)
avoided or evaded tax in any other manner, the assessing authority or any officer not below the rank of an Assistant
Commercial Taxes Officer as may be authorised by the Commissioner, after giving him a reasonable opportunity of
being heard, by order in writing, impose upon him by way of penalty in addition to tax payable by him under this Act, a
sum equal to two times the amount of-tax avoided or evaded.]
(2)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), Where any dealer has availed input tax credit wrongly, the
assessing authority or any other officer not below the rank of an Assistant Commercial Taxes Officer as may be
authorised by the Commissioner shall reveres such credit of input tax and shall impose on such dealer-
(a)
in case such credit is availed on the basis of false or forged VAT invoices, a penalty equal to four times of the amount of
such wrong credit; and
(b)
in other cases, a penalty equal to double the amount of such wrong credit.
62.
Penalty for not furnishing statistics.
- Where any person or a dealer, has without reasonable cause failed to furnish within the time allowed, statistics or other
information required to be furnished in pursuance of any direction given by any officer or authority appointed or
constituted under this Act, the assessing authority or any officer not below the rank of an Assistant Commercial Taxes
Officer as may be authorised by the Commissioner, may direct that such person or dealer [shall pay by way of penalty, a
sum not exceeding rupees one thousand.] [[Substituted by Rajasthan Act 4 of 2006, Published in Rajasthan
Government Gazette Extraordinary, Part IV-A, dated 31-3-2006, page 61(47) [1-4-2006] for the following :-
'shall pay by way of penalty, a sum of rupees one thousand.']]
Page 37/138
----- PAGE 38 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
63.
Penalty on awarders.
(1)
Where an awarder of a works contract, fails to deduct the amount in lieu of tax from the bill of a contractor as prescribed,
or after having deducted such amount from such bill does not deposit the same in the prescribed manner and time, he
shall be liable to pay tax deducted by him and a penalty for each violation, [which may extend upto rupees one thousand
in the case of non-deduction, and a penalty at the rate of two per cent per month on the amount so deducted]
[[Substituted by Rajasthan Act 4 of 2006, Published in Rajasthan Government Gazette Extraordinary, Part IV-A, dated
31-3-2006, page 61(47) [1-4-2006] for the following :-
'which shall be twenty per cent of the amount of tax required to be deducted in case of non- deduction, and a penalty at
the rate of three per cent per month on the amount so deducted']] but not deposited for the period during which such
default continues.
(2)
The assessing authority of the contractor concerned or any other officer not below the rank of an Assistant Commercial
Taxes Officer as may be authorised by the Commissioner, shall be empowered to recover tax and impose penalty under
sub-section (1).
64.
Penalty for other violations.
- Where any person or a dealer-
(i)
fails to comply with a direction given by any officer or authority appointed or authorised or constituted under this Act; or
(ii)
violates any of the provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder for which no specific penalty has been provided
elsewhere under this Act or the rules.
the assessing authority or any other officer not below the rank of an Assistant Commercial Taxes Officer as authorised
by the Commissioner, may direct that such person or dealer [shall pay by way of penalty a sum not exceeding rupees
two thousand, and in the case of a continuing default, a further penalty of rupees twenty five for every day of such
continuance.] [[Substituted by Rajasthan Act 4 of 2006, Published in Rajasthan Government Gazette Extraordinary, Part
IV-A, dated 31-3-2006, page 61(47) (1-4-2006) for the following :-
'shall pay by way of penalty, a sum of rupees two thousand, and in the case of a continuing default, a further penalty of
rupees fifty for every day of such continuance.']]
65.
Opportunity before imposition of penalty.
- No penalty under this Act shall be imposed unless a reasonable opportunity of being heard is afforded to the dealer or
the person concerned.
66.
Time limit for imposition of penalty or levy of interest.
(1)
No order for imposing penalty shall be passed-
(a)
after expiry of two years from the end of the year in which the relevant assessment or rectification order is passed; and
(b)
if the assessment or rectification order is subject matter of appeal, revision or other proceeding, after expiry of two years
from the end of the year in which the order in appeal, revision or other proceeding is passed.
(2)
(a)
Subject to the provisions of clause (b) of sub-section (1), no order for levy of interest shall be passed-
(i)
after expiry of two years from the end of the year in which relevant assessment or rectification order is passed; and
(ii)
if the assessment or rectification order is the subject matter of appeal, revision or other proceeding, after expiry of two
Page 38/138
----- PAGE 39 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
years from the end of the year in which the order in appeal revision or other proceeding is passed.
(b)
No order for levy of interest in the case of recovery of demand shall be passed after expiry of two years from the end of
the year in which such demand in full is recovered or adjusted or partly recovered and partly adjusted.
Explanation. - In computing the period of limitation under this section, the period during which the proceeding for
imposition of penalty or levy of interest remains stayed or restrained under the orders of any competent authority or
court shall be excluded.
67.
Prosecution for offences.
(1)
Where any person-
(a)
though not registered under this Act, yet falsely represents that he is a registered dealer at the time of any sale or
purchase made by him or at the time of making any statement or declaration before any officer or authority appointed or
constituted under this Act; or
(b)
knowingly prepares or produces false accounts, sales and purchase invoices, VAT invoices, registers or documents; or
knowingly furnishes false returns in relation to his business or makes a false disclosure or averment in any statement
required to be recorded or in any declaration required to be filed under this Act or the rules or notifications; or
(c)
fraudulently avoids or evades tax or deliberately conceals his tax liability in any manner; or
(d)
fails to pay the amount of any demand notice and a period of not less than six months has elapsed since the receipt of
the demand notice by him;
Explanation. - An offence under this clause shall be deemed to be continuing offence until full payment is made; or
(e)
deliberately disregards a notice issued under sections 50 and 91; or
(f)
prevents or obstructs, in any manner, the competent officer under this Act, to enter, inspect and search the business
place or any other place where the goods or the accounts, registers and other documents are believed to be kept, or
prevents or obstructs such officer to seize the goods or the accounts, registers and documents; or
(g)
fails to stop the vehicle or carrier transporting the goods, of which he is the driver or otherwise Incharge, for being
inspected in accordance with the provisions of this Act, or prevents or obstructs the inspection, of the goods or the
vehicle or the carrier transporting the goods, by the Incharge of a check post or barrier or other officer empowered in this
behalf to discharge his duties by the Commissioner; or
(h)
imports into or exports from the State of Rajasthan, any goods showing incorrect or fictitious names or addresses of
consignors or consignees or incorrect details of goods or incorrect particulars in vouchers, way bills or goods receipts or
other documents accompanying the goods while in movement; or
(i)
fraudulently avails wrong credit of input tax; or
(j)
aids or abets any person in the commission of any such offence as aforesaid,
on a complaint being made against such person by the assessing authority or any other competent officer after having
obtained [sanction from the Commissioner, he shall, on conviction by a Judicial Magistrate having jurisdiction,-
(I)
[ for offences described under clauses (c) or (i) or offences where amount of demand notice exceeds rupees one crore
under clause (d) be punishable with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend upto three years and also be
liable to fine but the minimum sentence shall not be less than simple imprisonment of six months and fine of rupees five
thousand; and
Page 39/138
----- PAGE 40 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
(II)
for other offences not covered under clause (I), be punishable with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend
upto six months and also be liable to fine.]]
(2)
Where an offence under this section is committed with regard to a business, every person, who was responsible for the
conduct of the business at the time when the offence was committed or who was answerable for a legal lapse in any
manner by his action or omission, shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished under this section.
(3)
Without prejudice to the provisions contained in sub-section (2), where an offence under this section is committed by a
firm or a company and it is found that the offence has been committed with the consent or connivance of, or is
attributable to any neglect on the part of any partner of the firm of Chairperson-cum-Managing Director, Managing
Director, Executive Director or Director of the Company, such partner, Chairperson-cum-Managing Director, Managing
Director, Executive Director or Director, shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished under this section.
(4)
Any proceedings under this Act including the proceedings of assessment, rectification or recovery, other than the
proceedings for imposition of penalty, shall be carried on without prejudice to any prosecution under this section.
68.
Composition of offences.
(1)
Where a person or a dealer is charged under this Act with the offence of avoidance or evasion of tax in any manner and
at any time; he may make an application in the prescribed form and manner to the Deputy Commissioner
(Administration) having jurisdiction, admitting his offence and making request therein for composition of the offence in
lieu of penalty or prosecution.
(2)
The Deputy Commissioner (Administration) may, whether or not an assessment order under any section of this Act has
been passed, accept from the person who made the application under sub-section (1), by way of composition of the
offence in lieu of penalty or prosecution [a sum equal to]
[Substituted by Rajasthan Act 4 of 2006, Published in Rajasthan Government Gazette Extraordinary, Part IV-A, dated
31-3-2006, page 61(47) for the words 'a sum equal to one and a half times of'.]
the amount of tax avoided or evaded.
(3)
[ Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-sections (1) & (2) on an application by a person admitting the offence
committed by him under sub-section (8) of section 75 or under sub-section (6) or (9) or (11) of section 76, the officer
[authorised under sub-section (4) of section 75 or the officer authorised under sub- section (4) of section 76 or the
Incharge of the check-post] [[Substituted by Rajasthan Act 4 of 2006, Published in Rajasthan Government Gazette
Extraordinary, Part IV-A, dated 31-3-2006, page 61(47) [1-4-2006] for the following:-
'(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) and (2) on an application by a person admitting the offence
committed by him under sub-section (8) of section 75 or sub-section (7) or (8) of section 76, the assessing authority, the
officer authorized under sub-section (4) of section 75 or the officer empowered under sub-section (4) of section 76 or the
Incharge of a check-post or barrier, as the case may be, may accept composition money from such person in lieu of
penalty or prosecution, which shall be equal to the amount of four times of the tax leviable on the goods involved or
twenty five per cent of the value of such goods, whichever is less.']], as the case may be, may accept composition
money from such person in lieu of penalty or prosecution, which shall be,-
(a)
in case of offence committed under sub-section (8) of section 75 or sub-section 6) of section 76, equal to the amount of
four times of the tax leviable on the goods involved or twenty five per cent of the value of such goods, whichever is less;
(b)
in case of offence committed by him under sub-section (9) of section 76, equal to fifteen percent of the value of the
goods;
(c)
in case of offence committed under sub-section (11) of section 76, equal to twenty five percent of the value of such
Page 40/138
----- PAGE 41 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
goods.]
(4)
The composition of any offence in lieu of penalty or prosecution under sub-section (2), shall be without prejudice to the
liability of the person or dealer, charged with the offence, to pay the tax with interest so avoided or evaded or wrongly
credited by him.
(5)
On the payment of the amount of composition determined under sub-section (2) and (3), no further proceeding under the
provisions of this Act for imposition of penalty or launching of prosecution for the same offence, shall be initiated.
(6)
Notwithstanding anything contained in section 51, no amount of composition accepted and no amount of interest levied
under this section, shall be waived or reduced by the Commissioner.
(7)
Notwithstanding anything contained in section 82, no appeal shall lie or subsist against an order of composition made
under this Act.
69.
Penalty or composition under this Act not to interfere with punishment under other law.
- Any penalty proceeding under this Act whether pending or completed or any composition of offence in lieu of penalty or
prosecution, shall not prevent the infliction of any punishment to which the person affected thereby is liable under any
other law.
70.
Investigation of offences.
(1)
Subject to such conditions as may be prescribed, the Commissioner may authorize either generally or in respect of a
particular case or class of cases, any officer not below the rank of an Assistant Commercial Taxes Officer to investigate
all or any of the offences punishable under this Act.
(2)
Every.officer so authorised shall, in the conduct of such investigation, exercise the powers conferred by the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Central Act No. 2 of 1974) upon the Officer-Incharge of a Police Station for the investigation
of a cognisable offences.
Chapter VII
Maintenance and Keeping of Accounts
71.
Accounts to be maintained by a dealer.
(1)
Every dealer liable to pay tax under this Act shall keep and maintain a true and correct account of his business activities
in an intelligible form including the value and quantity of the goods received, manufactured, sold or otherwise disposed
of or held in stock by him. However, the State Government may exempt, such class of dealers as may be notified, from
the provisions of this sub-section.
(2)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (1), the State Government, if deemed proper, may prescribe forms for
maintaining accounts of sales and purchase of goods, stock of raw materials used and finished goods produced.
(3)
The accounts required to be maintained under sub-section (1) shall be kept by the dealer at the place(s) of business as
recorded in his certificate of registration, and the stock book as referred to in sub-section (2) shall be kept at the place
where manufacturing activity is carried on; however, final accounts, annual statements, registers and documents shall
be kept at the principal place of business.
(4)
When a dealer has established branches at places in the State other than the principal place of business, the necessary
accounts, registers and documents relating to the business activities being carried on at each branch shall, without
prejudice to the provisions of sub-section (3), be kept by him at such branch.
(5)
Page 41/138
----- PAGE 42 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
The accounts, registers and other documents relating to a year, shall be preserved and kept by a dealer for five years
excluding the year to which they relate, and this period of five years shall be deemed to have been extended by such
time until any pending proceeding referring thereto under this Act is finally disposed of.
72.
Registered dealers to issue Vat invoice.
(1)
A registered dealer, other than who opts for payment of tax under sub-section (2) of section 3 or section 5 shall issue for
each sale, except the sale of exempted goods, made by him, a VAT invoice in such manner as may be prescribed.
(2)
Where any dealer, contravenes the provisions of sub-section (1), the assessing authority or the officer authorised by the
Commissioner may, after giving such dealer a reasonable opportunity of being heard, direct him to pay by way of
penalty a sum equal to double the amount of tax leviable on the sale of goods in respect of which an invoice has not
been issued.
73.
Audit of accounts.
- [(1) Every registered dealer, other than the dealer who has opted for payment of tax under sub-Section (2) of Section 3
or under Section 5 or who files e-returns with prescribed documents or submits returns and documents in soft copy to
the assessing authority or the officer authorised by the commissioner, shall, if his turnover [exceeds rupees one hundred
lac]
[Substituted by Rajasthan Act
No. 11 of 2008
, dated 3.4.2008.]
in any year, get his accounts in respect of such year audited by an Accountant within the prescribed period from the end
of that year and furnish within the prescribed period the report of such audit in the prescribed form duly signed and
verified by such Accountant setting forth such particulars and certificates as may be prescribed.]
[Substituted by Rajasthan Act 4 of 2006, Published in Rajasthan Government Gazette Extraordinary, Part IV-A, dated
31-3-2006, page 61(47) [1-4-2006] for the following :-'sanction from the Deputy Commissioner (Administration) having
jurisdiction, he shall, on conviction by a Judicial Magistrate having jurisdiction, be punishable with simple imprisonment
which may extend to three years or with fine which may extend to rupees ten thousand or both. However, for the
offences covered under clause (b), (c), (f), (g) and (i) he shall on conviction be punishable with a minimum sentence of
simple imprisonment of twelve months but in appropriate cases the court may award a sentence less than twelve
months.']
[Explanation. - For the purposes of this section "Accountant" means-
(i)
a Chartered Accountant within the meaning of the "Chartered Accountants Act, 1949 (Central Act No. 38 of 1949); and
(ii)
a Cost Accountant within the meaning of the Cost and Works Accountants Act, 1959 (Central Act No. 23 of 1959).]
(2)
If any dealer liable to get his accounts audited under sub- section (1) fails to furnish a copy of such report within the time
as aforesaid, the assessing authority or the officer not below the rank of Assistant Commercial Taxes Officer authorised
by the Commissioner may, impose on him, in addition to any tax payable, a sum by way of penalty equal to one tenth
per cent of the total turnover of that year or rupees one lac, whichever is less.
74.
Dealer to declare the name of his business manager.
- Every dealer, who is liable to pay tax, shall furnish a declaration within such time and in such manner as may be
prescribed, stating the name of the person or persons to be manager or managers of his business for the purposes of
this Act and also the name or names of person or persons authorised to receive notice and other documents under this
Act on behalf of the dealer and such service on such person shall be binding on the dealer.
Chapter VIII
Inspection, Search, Seizure and Anti-Evasion Provisions
75.
Page 42/138
----- PAGE 43 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
Power of entry, inspection and seizure of accounts and goods.
(1)
An assessing authority or any officer not below the rank of Junior Commercial Taxes Officer authorised by the
Commissioner in this behalf with such conditions and restrictions as may be specified by the Commissioner, shall have
the power-
(a)
to inspect or survey the place of business of a dealer or any other place where it is believed by such authority or officer
that business is being done or accounts are being kept by such dealer;
(b)
to direct such dealer to produce accounts, registers and documents relating to his business activities for examination;
(c)
to inspect the goods in the possession of the dealer or in the possession of anybody else on behalf of such dealer,
wherever such goods are placed;
(d)
to make search of such place including the search of the person found there, where concealment of facts relating to
business is suspected;
(e)
to break open the door of any premises or to break open any almirah, box, receptacle in which any goods, accounts,
registers or documents of the dealer are suspected to be concealed, where access to such premises, almirah, box or
receptacle is denied;
(f)
to record the statement of the dealer or his manager agent or servant or to take extracts from any record and to put
identification marks on accounts, registers or documents and on any door, almirah, box or receptacle.
Explanation. - There shall be a presumption in respect of goods, accounts, registers or documents, which are found at
any place of business of a dealer during any inspection or search, that they relate to his business unless the contrary is
proved by him.
(2)
The power under clauses (d) to (e) of sub-section (1) shall be exercised by the Junior Commercial taxes Officer in the
presence of an authority not below the rank of Assistant Commercial Taxes Officer.
(3)
Where any accounts, registers or documents are produced before any assessing authority or any officer not below the
rank of Assistant Commercial Taxes Officer in any proceeding under this Act, such authority or officer may, for reasons
to be recorded in writing, impound and retain them in its custody for a period not exceeding six months, and shall give
the dealer or any other person who has produced such accounts, registers or documents a receipt of the same. The
dealer may obtain copy of such accounts, registers or documents on payment of copying fee as may be prescribed.
However, such copy may not be given unless the dealer produces the remaining accounts, statements, registers and
documents required to be maintained under the provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder.
(4)
Where at the time of inspection, the assessing authority or any officer not below the rank of Assistant Commercial Taxes
Officer authorised by the Commissioner in this behalf has reason to suspect that the dealer is attempting to avoid or
evade tax or is concealing his tax liability in any manner, it may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, seize such
accounts, registers or documents of the dealer as it may consider necessary and shall give the dealer or any other
person from whose custody such accounts, registers or documents are seized a receipt of the same, and may retain the
same in its custody for examination, enquiry, prosecution or other legal action for a period not exceeding six months.
The dealer may obtain copy of the seized record on payment of copying fee as may be prescribed. However, such copy
may not be given unless the dealer produces the remaining accounts, statements, registers and documents required to
be maintained under the provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder.
(5)
The accounts, registers or documents impounded under subsection (3) or seized under sub-section (4) may be retained
even beyond a period of six months and up to a maximum period of two years from the date of impounding or seizure,
as the case may be, by such authority or officer, after having obtained permission in writing of the Commissioner or the
Page 43/138
----- PAGE 44 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
Deputy Commissioner (Administration) authorised by the Commissioner.
(6)
The assessing authority or any other office not below the rank of Assistant Commercial Taxes Officer authorised by the
Commissioner under sub-section (4) may seize any goods liable to tax, which are found in the possession of a dealer or
in the possession of anybody else on behalf of such dealer and which are not accounted for in his accounts, registers or
documents maintained in the course of his business; and a list of goods so seized shall be prepared by such authority or
officer and a copy thereof shall be given to the dealer or any other person from whose custody such goods are seized.
(7)
Where it is not feasible to seize the accounts, registers or documents under sub-section (4) or the goods under
sub-section (6), the assessing authority or the officer concerned may serve on the owner or the person who is in
immediate possession or control thereof an order that he shall not remove, part with or otherwise deal with them except
with the previous permission of such authority or officer, which may, after serving such order, take such steps as may be
deemed necessary under the circumstances.
(8)
The assessing authority or the officer referred to in sub-section (6) may, after having given the dealer an opportunity of
being heard and after haring held such further enquiry as it may consider fit, impose on him, for the possession of goods
not accounted for, whether seized or not under sub-section (6), [a penalty equal to five times of the tax leviable on such
goods or thirty percent of the value of such goods, whichever is less]
[Substituted by Rajasthan Act 4 of 2006, Published in Rajasthan Government Gazette Extraordinary, Part IV-A, dated
31-3-2006, page 61(47) [1-4-2006] for the words 'a penalty equal to thirty per cent of the value of such goods'.]
and such authority or officer may release the goods, if seized, on payment of the penalty imposed or on furnishing such
security for the payment thereof as it may consider necessary.
(9)
The assessing authority or other officer as referred to in subsection (6) may require any person,-
(a)
who transports or holds in custody any goods of a dealer, to give any information in his possession in respect of such
goods or to allow inspection thereof, as the case may be; and
(b)
who maintains or has in his possession any accounts, registers or documents relating to the business of a dealer, to
produce such accounts, registers or documents for inspection.
76.
Establishment of check post or barrier and inspection of goods while in movement.
(1)
The Commissioner may, with a view to prevent or check avoidance or evasion of tax, by notification in the Official
Gazette, direct the setting up of a check post or the erection of barrier or both, at such places as may be specified in the
notification, and every officer or official who exercises his powers and discharges his duties at such check post or barrier
by way of inspection of documents produced and goods being moved shall be its Incharge.
(2)
The owner or a person duly authorised by such owner or the driver or the person Incharge of a vehicle or carrier or of
goods in movement shall-
(a)
stop the vehicle or carrier at every check post or barrier, and while entering and leaving the limits of the State bring and
stop the vehicle at the nearest check post or barrier set up under sub-section (1);
(b)
carry with him a goods vehicle record including "challans" and "bilties", invoices, prescribed declaration forms and bills of
sale or despatch memos;
(c)
produce all the documents including prescribed declaration forms relating to the goods before the Incharge of the check
post or barrier;
(d)
furnish all the information in his possession relating to the goods; and
Page 44/138
----- PAGE 45 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
(e)
allow the inspection of the goods by the Incharge of the check post or barrier or any other person authorised by such
Incharge.
Explanation. - For the purpose of this Chapter 'goods in movement' shall mean-
(i)
the goods which are in the possession or control of a transporting agency or person or other such bailee;
(ii)
the goods which are being carried in a vehicle or carrier belonging to the owner of such goods; and
(iii)
the goods which are being carried by a person.
(3)
The State Government may require by notification that the documents required to be furnished under sub-section (2),
shall be furnished by means of such electronic devices, and be accompanied by such processing fee, as may be
prescribed.
(4)
Where any goods are in movement within the territory of the State of Rajasthan, the assessing authority or [an officer
authorised by the Commissioner]
[Substituted by Rajasthan Act 4 of 2006, Published in Rajasthan Government Gazette Extraordinary, Part IV-A, dated
31-3-2006, page 61(47) [1-4-2006].]
in this behalf may stop the vehicle or the carrier or the person carrying such goods, for inspection, at any place within his
jurisdiction and the provisions of sub-section (2) shall mutatis mutandis apply.
(5)
Where any goods in movement, other than exempted goods, are without documents, or are not supported by documents
as referred to in sub-section (2), or documents produced appears to be false or forged, the Incharge of the check post or
barrier or [the officer authorized]
[Substituted 'the officer empowered' by Rajasthan Act No. 3 of 2007, dated 10.4.2007.]
under sub-section (4), may-
(a)
direct the owner or a person duly authorised by such owner or the driver or the person Incharge of the vehicle or carrier
or of the goods not to part with the goods in any manner including by re-transporting or re-booking, till a verification is
done or an enquiry is made, which shall not take more than seven days;
(b)
seize the goods for reasons to be recorded in writing and shall give a receipt of the goods to the person from whose
possession or control they are seized;
(c)
release the goods seized under clause (b) to the owner of the goods or to a person duly authorised by such owner,
during the course of the proceeding, if adequate security of the amount equal to the estimated value of the goods is
furnished.
(6)
The incharge of the check post or barrier or [the officer authorised]
[Substituted by Rajasthan Ordinance 5 of 2006, Published in Rajasthan Government Gazette, Extraordinary, Part
4(Kha), dated 28-12-2006, page 7, w.r.e.f. 1-4-2006, for the words 'the officer empowered'.]
under sub-section (4), after having given the owner of the goods or person duly authorised in writing by such owner or
person Incharge of the goods, a reasonable opportunity of being heard and after having held such enquiry as he may
deem fit, shall impose on him for possession or movement of goods, whether seized or not, in violation of the provisions
of [clause (b) of sub-section (2)]
[Substituted 'clause (a) of sub-section (2)' by Rajasthan Act No. 3 of 2007, dated 10.4.2007.]
or for submission of false or forged documents or declaration, a penalty equal to thirty percent of the value of such
goods.
(7)
During the pendency of the proceeding under sub-section (6), if any person appears before the Incharge of the check
Page 45/138
----- PAGE 46 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
post or barrier or [the officer authorised]
[Substituted by Rajasthan Ordinance 5 of 2006, Published in Rajasthan Government Gazette, Extraordinary, Part
4(Kha), dated 28-12-2006, page 7, w.r.e.f. 1-4-2006, for the words 'the officer empowered'.]
under sub-section (4) and prays for being impleaded as a party to the case on the ground of involvement of his interest
therein, the said Incharge or the officer on being satisfied may permit him to be impleaded as a party to the case; and
thereafter, all the provisions of this section shall mutatis mutandis apply to him.
(8)
The Incharge of the check post or barrier or the officer or [the officer authorised]
[Substituted by Rajasthan Ordinance 5 of 2006, Published in Rajasthan Government Gazette, Extraordinary, Part
4(Kha), dated 28-12-2006, page 7, w.r.e.f. 1-4-2006, for the words 'the officer empowered'.]
under sub-section (4) may release the goods to the owner of the goods or to a person duly authorised by such owner, if
seized and not already released under clause (b) of sub-section (5), on payment of the penalty imposed under
sub-section (6) or on furnishing such security for the payment thereof, as such Incharge or officer may consider
necessary.
(9)
Where the owner or a person duly authorised by such owner or the driver or the person Incharge of the vehicle or the
carrier is found guilty for violation of the provisions of sub-section (2), the Incharge of the check post or barrier or the
officer empowered under sub-section (4) may detain such vehicle or carrier and after affording an opportunity of being
heard to such owner, driver or person, may impose a penalty equal to thirty per cent of the value of such goods.
(10)
The Incharge of the check post or barrier or [the officer authorised]
[Substituted by Rajasthan Ordinance 5 of 2006, Published in Rajasthan Government Gazette, Extraordinary, Part
4(Kha), dated 28-12-2006, page 7, w.r.e.f. 1-4-2006, for the words 'the officer empowered'.]
under sub-section (4) may release the vehicle or the carrier on the payment of the amount of penalty imposed under
sub-section (9) or on furnishing such security as may be directed by such Incharge or Officer.
(11)
[ Notwithstanding anything contained in this section, where the driver or the person Incharge of the vehicle or the carrier
abstains from bringing or stopping the vehicle or carrier at the nearest check-post as provided under clause (a) of
sub-section (20, the Incharge of the check-post or the officer empowered under sub-section (4) may detain such vehicle
or carrier and, after affording an opportunity of being heard to the owner or a person duly authorised by such owner or
the driver or the person Incharge of the vehicle or carrier, may impose a penalty equal to fifty percent of the value of
such goods.]
[Inserted by Rajasthan Act 4 of 2006, Published in Rajasthan Government Gazette Extraordinary, Part IV-A, dated
31-3-2006, page 61(47) [1-4-2006].]
(12)
[]
[Renumbered by Rajasthan Act 4 of 2006, Published in Rajasthan Government Gazette Extraordinary, Part IV-A, dated
31-3-2006, page 61(47) [1-4-2006] for '(11)'.]
If a transporter fails to give information as required from him under clause (d) of sub-section (2) about the consignor,
consignee or the goods within such time as may be specified or transports the goods [with false or forged documents]
[Substituted by Rajasthan Act 4 of 2006, Published in Rajasthan Government Gazette Extraordinary, Part IV-A, dated
31-3-2006, page 61(47) [1-4-2006] for 'with forged documents'.]
, besides imposing the penalty under sub-section (6), it shall be presumed that the goods so transported have been sold
in the State of Rajasthan by him and he shall be deemed to be a dealer for those goods under this Act.
(13)
[]
[Renumbered by Rajasthan Act 4 of 2006, Published in Rajasthan Government Gazette Extraordinary, Part IV-A, dated
31-3-2006, page 61(47) [1-4-2006] for '(11)'.]
The provisions of this Act shall, for the purpose of levy, collection and assessment of tax, determination of interest,
payment and recovery of tax and interest, appeal, review or revision, apply to the transporter deemed m be a dealer
under [sub-section (12)]
Page 46/138
----- PAGE 47 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
[Substituted 'sub-section (11)' by Rajasthan Act No. 3 of 2007, dated 10.4.2007.]
.
77.
Establishment of check-post on contract basis.
- [(1) Where the Commissioner is of the opinion that without establishing a departmental check-post, it is in the public
interest to collect tax on contract basis in respect of all kinds of building stones, marble and granite in all their forms, gitti,
bazari, all other goods specified under clause (8) of section 2 and livestock at a particular check-post or for a specified
area, he may, through a contract, permit a contractor to collect such tax at such check-post or for such area, at the rates
as may be notified under the Act from time to time, in the manner and on such terms and conditions as may be
prescribed, for a period not exceeding two years at a time.] [[Sub-section (1) is substituted by Rajasthan Act
4 of 2007
, Published in Rajasthan Government Gazette Extraordinary, Part IV-A, dated 10-4-2007, page 1(18). Before the
substitution, the sub-section (1) was as under :-
'(1) Where the State Government is of the opinion that without establishing a departmental check-post, it is in the public
interest to collect tax on contract basis in respect of all kinds of building stones marble and granite in all their forms, gitti,
bazari, all other goods specified under clause (8) of section 2 and livestock at a particular check-post or for a specified
area, it may direct the Commissioner to collect such tax through a contract at such check-post or for such area, at the
rates as may be notified under the Act from time to time in the manner and on such terms and conditions as may be
specified, for a period not exceeding two years at a time.']]
Explanation. - For the purposes of this section any transaction involving buying, supplying, distributing, carrying or
otherwise disposal of the goods or the livestock referred to above, shall be construed to be sale.
(2)
[ Notwithstanding any thing contrary contained in any contract under, sub-section (1), a contractor covered by
sub-section (1) shall deposit the amount of-
(i)
tax collected; or
(ii)
the amount of contracted annual tax revenue,
whichever is higher, subject to revision on account of any increase or decrease in the rate of tax or grant of exemption
from tax, in such manner and within such time as may be prescribed, and all the provisions of this Act including the
provisions of recovery and interest shall, so far as may be, apply to such contractor.
(2A)
Notwithstanding anything contained in any rule, judgment, order or any other instrument, the amount of tax payable in
accordance with the provisions of sub¬section (2) as amended by the Rajasthan Finance Act, 2009 (Act
No. 13 of 2009
), if not paid, shall be deposited to the State .Government within two months from the commencement of this Act.]
[Substituted by Rajasthan Act
No. 13 of 2009
, dated 11.8.2009.]
(3)
Where the period of a contract entered into sub-section (1) expires and no further contract is awarded, the same
contract may be extended by the Commissioner, for a further period of three months or up to the date of the award of
the next contract, whichever is earlier, and the extended period shall be governed by the terms and conditions of the
original contract.
(4)
The contractor shall not collect tax on the goods under subsection (1) exceeding the amount of tax leviable thereon
under the provisions of this Act.
(5)
Where a contractor violates the provisions of sub-section (4), the Commissioner or any officer not below the rank of
Assistant Commercial Taxes Officer authorised by the Commissioner, shall after affording an opportunity of being heard,
direct that such contractor shall pay by way of penalty, in addition to the amount of excess tax collected a sum equal to
Page 47/138
----- PAGE 48 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
double the amount of excess tax collected by him or any other person on his behalf.
(6)
Where a contractor violates any of the terms or conditions of the contract, the Deputy Commissioner may after affording
opportunity of being heard and recording reasons in writing, terminate the contract at any time and shall be empowered
to recover the full amount of tax as stipulated under the contract from such contractor, as if such amount was a demand
of tax under this Act.
[Substituted by Rajasthan Act No. 7 of 2009, dated 4.2.2009.]
Section 77 substituted by Rajasthan Act 4 of 2006, Published in Rajasthan Government Gazette Extraordinary, Part
IV-A, dated 31-3-2006, page 61(47) [1-4-2006].
Legislative Changes.- Section 77 substituted by Rajasthan Act 4 of 2006 [1-4-2006]. Before the substitution, the section
was as under;-
"77. Establishment of check-post on contract basis.- (1) Where the Commissioner is of the view that without
establishment of a departmental check-post, it is in the interest of the State to collect a fixed sum of tax on contract
basis, in respect of goods notified under clause (8) of section 2 and livestock at a particular point or for a specified area,
he may, through a contract, permit a contractor to collect such tax at such point or for such area, on such terms and
conditions as may be specified by him, for a period not exceeding two years at a time.
(2) A contractor covered by sub-section (1), shall deposit the fixed amount of tax subject to revision on account of any
increase or decrease in the rate of tax or grant of exemption from tax, in such manner and within such time as may be
fixed by the Commissioner, and all the provisions of this Act including the provisions of recovery and interest shall, so far
as may be, apply to such contractor.
(3) Where the period of a contract entered into under sub-section (1) expires and no further contract is awarded, the
same contract may be extended for a further period of three months or upto the date of the award of the next contract,
whichever is earlier, and the contractor shall accordingly deposit the proportionate amount of tax for such extended
period, as directed by the Commissioner.
(4) The contractor shall not collect tax on the goods under subsection (1) exceeding the amount of tax leviable thereon
under the provisions of this Act.
(5) Where a contractor violates the provisions of sub-section (4), the Commissioner or any officer not below the rank of
Assistant Commercial Taxes Officer authorised by the Commissioner, shall after affording an opportunity of being heard,
direct that such contractor shall pay by way of penalty, in addition to the amount of excess tax collected a sum equal to
double the amount of excess tax collected by him or any other person on his behalf.
(6) Where a contractor violates any of the terms or conditions of the contract, the Deputy Commissioner (Administration)
with the prior approval of the Commissioner may, after recording reasons in writing, terminate the contract at any time
and the full amount of contract, after adjusting the amount already deposited as stipulated under the contract, shall be
recoverable from such contractor, as if such amount was a demand of tax under this Act and the provisions of recovery
of demand shallmutatis mutandisapply.
(7) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the Commissioner may by notification direct that no registered dealer
shall collect tax in such area and in respect of such goods as are referred to in sub-section (1)."
78.
Transit of goods by road through the State and issue of transit pass.
(1)
Where a vehicle or carrier coming from any place outside the State and bound for any place outside the State and
carrying any goods bound for any place outside the State, passes through the State, the owner, the driver or the person
incharge of such vehicle or carrier or goods shall obtain in such manner and on payment of such fee, as may be
prescribed, a transit pass for such goods from the Incharge of the first check-post or barrier after his entry into the State
and deliver it to the Incharge of the last check-post or barrier before his exit from the State.
(2)
In case of Transshipment of goods being transported under sub-section (1) the owner or driver or person incharge of
such vehicle or carrier of such goods shall furnish such information to such authority and in such manner as may be
prescribed.
(3)
Where such owner, driver or person incharge fails to deliver such transit pass in respect of any goods in accordance
Page 48/138
----- PAGE 49 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
with the provisions of sub-section (1) or is found to have suppressed or given false particulars of any consignment of
goods in his application for issue of transit pass, it shall be presumed that such goods have been sold within the State
by the owner, the driver or the person incharge of the vehicle or the carrier or the goods and the Incharge of the
check-post or barrier from where such transit pass was issued or an officer not below the rank of Assistant Commercial
Taxes Officer authorised by the Commissioner, after having afforded an opportunity of being heard to such owner, driver
or person incharge shall make an order that notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, such owner, driver or person
incharge shall pay tax on such sale together with the penalty equal to double the amount of such tax.
(4)
The system of transit pass as provided in sub-sections (1) and (3) shall come into force from such date and at such
check-post or barrier as may be notified by the Commissioner from time to time.
79.
Import of goods into the State or export of goods outside the State.
(1)
Any registered dealer or any other person, who intends to import or bring any goods, or otherwise receives within the
State of Rajasthan goods as may be notified by the State Government from outside the State, for sale, use,
consumption or for other disposal in the State, shall, unless otherwise prescribed, obtain a prescribed declaration form
from the prescribed authority, and shall cause it to be carried with the goods as part of the documents specified in
sub-section (2) of section 76 and produce along with other documents before the Incharge of the entry check-post or
barrier of the State or any other officer authorised by the Commissioner in this behalf.
(2)
Any registered dealer or any other person by whom any goods taxable within the State of Rajasthan are despatched
from within the State to a place outside the State either in the course of inter-State trade or commerce or for sale outside
the State, such registered dealer or other person shall, unless otherwise prescribed, furnish or cause to be furnished a
prescribed declaration form obtained from the prescribed authority as part of the documents specified in sub-section (2)
of section 76, before the Incharge of the exit check-post or barrier of the State or any other officer authorised by the
Commissioner in this behalf.
(3)
The State Government may require by notification that the declaration forms required to furnished under sub-sections
(1) and (2) shall be furnished by means of such electronic devices, as may be prescribed.
80.
Liability to [***]
[Deleted 'obtain certificate and' by Rajasthan Act
No. 15 of 2011
, dated 11.4.2011.]
furnish information by certain agents.
- [(1) A clearing or forwarding agent who in the course of his business renders his service for booking or taking delivery
of any consignment of goods liable to tax or handles any document of title relating to goods liable to tax, shall furnish
information about his place of business to the Assistant Commissioner or the Commercial Taxes Officer, as the case
may be, in whose territorial jurisdiction he conducts his business, within such time, in such form and in such manner as
may be prescribed.]
[Substituted by Rajasthan Act
No. 15 of 2011
, dated 11.4.2011.]
(2)
Every such clearing or forwarding agent shall furnish to the Assistant Commissioner or,the Commercial Taxes Officer,
as the case may be, such particulars and information in such form and manner as may be prescribed.
(3)
Where any clearing or forwarding agent violates any of the provisions of sub-section (1) or sub-section (2), the Assistant
Commissioner or the Commercial Taxes Officer, as the case may be, after affording a reasonable opportunity of being
heard, direct him to pay an amount by way of penalty,-
(a)
Page 49/138
----- PAGE 50 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
in case of violation of provisions of sub-section (1), not more than Rs. 2000/- and not less than Rs. 1000/-; and
(b)
in case of violation of provisions of sub-section (2), equal to the amount of tax leviable at the full rate on the value of the
goods in respect of which violation has been made.
80A.
[ Liability of furnish information by certain persons.
[Inserted by Act No. 6 of 2015, dated 1.4.2015.]
(1)
Any person who -
(i)
effects sale or purchase within the State of Rajasthan, or places offer for sale or purchase so as to be accessible, visible
or audible within the State of Rajasthan, through electronic media; or
(ii)
transported, receives for transportation or delivers goods in pursuance of sale or purchase effected within the State of
Rajasthan through electronic media; or
(iii)
receives any account in connection with the goods sold or purchased within the State of Rajasthan through electronic
media, whether for himself or on behalf of the seller or purchaser,
shall furnish or cause to be furnished, such information, for such period, in such manner, and within such time, to such
officer or authority, as may be notified by the commissioner.
(2)
Any Person who fails to furnish information within the period notified under sub-section (1) shall be liable to pay by way
of penalty a sum not exceeding rupees one lac, and in case of a continuing default, a further penalty of rupees one
thousand for every day of such continuance.]
[Substituted by Rajasthan Finance Act, 2014 (Act No. 14 of 2014), dated 31.7.2014.]
81.
Special provisions relating to under-billing.
(1)
Where the assessing authority or an officer not below the rank of an Assistant Commercial Taxes Officer authorised by
the Commissioner in this behalf, has reason to believe that the value of the goods shown in the sale or purchase bill,
invoice or VAT invoice is less than the fair market price of such goods, he may seize the goods and shall conduct an
enquiry to determine the actual market price of such goods and where, after such enquiry, he is satisfied that the price
shown in the sale or purchase bill, invoice or VAT invoice is less than the market price, he may, after seeking approval
of the concerned Deputy Commissioner (Administration), proceed to realise the amount of tax to be paid as per such
approved market price of the goods, in addition to the tax already paid in respect of such goods, along with a penalty
equal to the additional amount of tax so levied, from the owner or Incharge of such goods.
(2)
In case the owner or Incharge of such goods fails to deposit such amount within the specified time, the goods so seized
shall be sold by auction and the additional amount so determined under sub-section (1), along with the expenses of
auction, shall be realised out of such sale proceeds by the assessing authority or the said authorised officer.
(3)
The owner or Incharge of the goods shall be afforded a reasonable opportunity of being heard before initiating action
under sub-section (1) or (2).
Chapter IX
Appeals and Revisions
82.
Appeal to the appellate authority.
(1)
Subject to the provisions of section 86, an appeal against any order of an Assistant Commissioner, a Commercial Taxes
Officer, an Assistant Commercial Taxes Officer or Junior Commercial Taxes Officer or Incharge of a check-post or
barrier shall lie to the appellate authority.
Page 50/138
----- PAGE 51 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
(2)
The appeal shall be presented within sixty days of the date on which the order sought to be appealed against is
communicated; but the appellate authority may admit an appeal even after the said period of sixty days if it is satisfied
that the appellant had sufficient cause for not preferring the appeal within the said period.
(3)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (4) of section 38, no appeal under this section shall be entertained
unless it is accompanied by a satisfactory proof of the payment of tax and other amounts admitted by the appellant to be
due from his or of such installment thereof as might have become payable and in case of an appeal from ex-party
assessment order, five percent of, and in other cases ten percent of the remaining demand over and above the admitted
tax or other amounts.
(4)
Notwithstanding that an appeal has been preferred to the appellate authority, the tax or any other sum shall, subject to
the provisions contained in sub-sections (4) and (5) of section 38, be paid in accordance with the order against which
appeal has been preferred.
(5)
The appeal shall be in the prescribed form and shall be verified in the prescribed manner.
(6)
The following shall have the right to be heard at the hearing of the appeal,-
(a)
the appellant, either in person or by the authorised representative;
(b)
the authority or officer against whose order the appeal has been preferred either in person or by a representative.
(7)
The appellate authority may, before disposing of any appeal make such further enquiry as it thinks fit, or may direct the
assessing authority or the officer against whose order appeal has been preferred to make further enquiry and report the
result of the same to the appellate authority and in disposing of the appeal the said authority may,-
(a)
in the case of an order of assessment, interest or penalty,-
(i)
confirm, enhance, reduce or annul the assessment, interest or penalty; or
(ii)
set aside the order of assessment, interest or penalty and direct the assessing authority to pass fresh order after such
further enquiry as may be directed; and
(b)
in the case of any other order, confirm, cancel, vary or remand such order.
(8)
The appellate authority shall send a copy of the order passed by it to the appellant, the assessing authority or such
authority against whose order the appeal has been preferred, the Deputy Commissioner (Administration) concerned and
the Commissioner.
83.
Appeal to the Tax Board.
(1)
An appeal shall lie to the Tax Board against-
(a)
[ an order passed by the Commissioner under sub-section (2) of section 26, section 36, section 77 or section 85]
[[Clause (a) Substituted by Rajasthan Act 4 of 2006, Published in Rajasthan Government Gazette Extraordinary, Part
IV-A, dated 31-3-2006, page 61(47) [1-4-2006] for the following:-
'(a) an order passed by the Commissioner under sub-section (2) of section 26 or 36 or section 85'.]];
(b)
[ an order passed under the Act by the Deputy Commissioner (Administration);] [[Clause (b) Substituted by Rajasthan
Act 4 of 2006, Published in Rajasthan Government Gazette Extraordinary, Part IV-A, dated 31-3-2006, page 61(47)
Page 51/138
----- PAGE 52 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
[1-4-2006] for the following:-
'(b) an order passed by the Deputy Commissioner (Administration) under sub-section (2) of section 26 or sub-section (1)
of section 33; and'.]]
(c)
an order passed by an appellate authority; and
(d)
[ an order of the State Level Screening Committee or the District Level Screening Committee passed under the
Incentive, Exemption or Deferment Schemes notified under section 8 or under sub-section (3) of section 20 of the Act.]
[Inserted by Rajasthan Act 4 of 2006, Published in Rajasthan Government Gazette Extraordinary, Part IV-A, dated
31-3-2006, page 61(47) [1-4-2006].]
(2)
Any person aggrieved by any order referred to in [X X X]
[The words 'Clauses (a), (b) and (c) of' deleted vide Rajasthan Act
4 of 2007
, Published in Rajasthan Government Gazette Extraordinary, Part IV-A, dated 10-4-2007, page 1(18).]
sub-section (1), may file an appeal before the Tax Board within ninety days of the date on which the order sought to be
appealed against is communicated to him in writing.
(3)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (2), the Commissioner or a Deputy Commissioner (Administration)
authorised specially or generally by the Commissioner may, if aggrieved by any order referred to in [X X X]
[The words 'Clauses (a), (b) and (c) of' deleted vide Rajasthan Act
4 of 2007
, Published in Rajasthan Government Gazette Extraordinary, Part IV-A, dated 10-4-2007, page 1(18).]
sub-section (1), direct any officer or Incharge of a check-post or barrier to file an appeal before the Tax Board and such
officer or Incharge shall file such appeal under his signatures within one hundred and eighty days of the date on which
the order sought to be appealed against is communicated in writing to the Commissioner or the Deputy Commissioner
(Administration).
(4)
The respondent may, on receipt of notice that an appeal against an order referred to in sub-section (1) has been
preferred by the appellant, notwithstanding that he may not have appealed against such order, within one hundred and
twenty days in the case of an officer of the Commercial Taxes Department and within sixty days in the case of a dealer,
of receipt of the notice, file a memorandum of cross-objections verified in the prescribed manner, against any part of the
said referred order and such memorandum shall be disposed of by the Tax Board as if it were an appeal within the time
specified in sub-section (2) or (3).
(5)
The Tax Board may admit an appeal or permit the filing of memorandum of cross-objections after the expiry of the
limitation provided in sub-section (2), (3) and (4), if it is satisfied that there was sufficient cause for not presenting the
same within that limitation.
(6)
An appeal to the Tax Board shall be made in the prescribed form and shall be verified in the prescribed manner.
(7)
The Tax Board, during the pendency of an appeal before it, shall not stay any proceeding but it may, on an application in
writing from the dealer, stay the recovery of the disputed amount of tax or any other sum or any part thereof on the
condition of furnishing adequate security to the satisfaction of the assessing authority or the officer authorised by the
Commissioner in this behalf; and the amount found ultimately due shall be subject to interest from the date it became
first due, in accordance with the provisions of this Act:
[Provided that no security under this section shall be required to be furnished by a department of the Central
Government or the State Government or a public sector undertaking, corporation or company owned or controlled by the
Central Government or the State Government.]
[Added by Rajasthan Act
No. 15 of 2011
Page 52/138
----- PAGE 53 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
, dated 11.4.2011.]
(8)
Notwithstanding that an appeal against an order has been preferred to the Tax Board, the tax or any other sum shall be
paid in accordance with the order against which appeal has been preferred, unless recovery of such tax or any other
sum has been stayed by the Tax Board.
(9)
The Tax Board shall, with the previous sanction of the State Government, make, by notification in the Official Gazette,
regulations consistent with the provisions of this Act and the rules made there under for regulating its own procedure
and the procedure of the benches thereof in all matters arising out of the exercise of its powers or the discharge of its
functions; however, until the regulations are made, the Tax Board shall, subject to the provisions of this Act and the rules
made there under, have power to regulate its own procedure and the procedure of the benches thereof in all matters
arising out of the exercise of its powers and discharge of its functions.
(10)
The Tax Board shall, after giving both the parties to the appeal an opportunity of being heard, pass such order thereon
as it thinks fit and send a copy thereof to the appellant, the assessing authority, the authority whose order was appealed
against and the Commissioner.
84.
Revision to the High Court.
(1)
Any dealer aggrieved by an order passed by the Tax Board under sub-section (10) of section 83 or under sub-section
(1) of section 33, may, within ninety days from the date of service of such order, apply to the High Court in the
prescribed form accompanied by the prescribed fee, for revision of such order on the ground that it involves a question
of law.
(2)
The Commissioner may, if he feels aggrieved by any order passed by the Tax Board under sub-section (10) of section
83, or under sub-section (1) of section 33, direct any officer or Incharge of a check-post or barrier to apply to the High
Court for revision of such order on the ground that it involves a question of law; and such officer or Incharge of a
check-post or barrier shall make the application to the High Court within one hundred and eighty days of the date on
which the order sought to be revised is communicated in writing to the Commissioner.
(3)
The application for revision under sub-section (1) or subsection (2) shall State the question of law involved in the order
sought to be revised, and the High Court may formulate the question of law in any form or allow any other question of
law to be raised.
(4)
The High Court shall after hearing the parties to the revision, decide the question of law Stated to it or formulated by it,
and shall thereupon pass such order as is necessary to dispose of the case.
85.
Revision by the Commissioner.
(1)
The Commissioner may suo motu or otherwise, call for and examine the record of any proceeding under this Act, and if
he considers that any order passed therein by Assistant Commissioner, Commercial Taxes Officer, Assistant
Commercial Taxes Officer or Junior Commercial Taxes Officer or Incharge of a check-post or barrier is either erroneous,
or prejudicial to the interest of the State revenue, he may, after having made or after having caused to be made such
enquiry' as he considers necessary, and after having given to the dealer a reasonable opportunity of being heard, pass
such order or issue such direction as he deems proper under the circumstances of the case.
(2)
No order or direction under sub-section (1) shall be passed or issued by the Commissioner if a period of five years has
already elapsed from the date on which the order sought to be revised was passed.
86.
No appeal or revision in certain cases.
- Notwithstanding anything contained in section 82, 83 and 84, no appeal or revision shall lie against,-
Page 53/138
----- PAGE 54 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
(a)
a notice or summons issued under this Act for the purpose of assessment or for any other purpose including for
recording statements; or
(b)
a direction to maintain certain accounts or furnish certain information, statement, statistics or return; or
(c)
an order for impounding, seizure or retention of accounts, registers or documents; or
(d)
an interim order passed in assessment or other proceeding, subject however, it will be open to the party aggrieved to
challenge such interim order in any appeal or revision preferred against the final order;
(e)
any guide-lines formulated, instructions issued, directions given or orders passed by the Commissioner under section
91.
Chapter X
Officers, Powers and Immunities
87.
Persons appointed under this Act to be public servants.
- All the officers and officials, with whatever designation appointed or posted to discharge a duty under this Act, including
the members of the Tax Board shall be deemed to be public servants within the meaning of section 21 of the Indian
Penal Code (Central Act XLV of 1860).
88.
Constitution of the Rajasthan Tax Board.
(1)
The State Government shall constitute the Rajasthan Tax Board for the State consisting of a [Chairperson]
[Substituted for the word 'Chairman' vide Rajasthan Act
4 of 2007
, Published in Rajasthan Government Gazette Extraordinary, Part IV-A, dated 10-4-2007, page 1(18).]
and as many members as it thinks fit, to exercise the powers and to discharge the duties conferred on the said Tax
Board by this Act or any other law.
(2)
The Tax Board shall, subject to any direction given by the State Government, sit at such place or places as it may deem
fit.
(3)
The State Government shall prescribe the qualifications of persons who shall be eligible for appointment as
[Chairperson]
[Substituted for the word 'Chairman' vide Rajasthan Act
4 of 2007
, Published in Rajasthan Government Gazette Extraordinary, Part IV-A, dated 10-4-2007, page 1(18).]
and member of the Tax Board, the method of their selection for appointment and conditions of their service.
(4)
The constitution of the Tax Board shall not be deemed to be invalid if any vacancy occurs or continues on account of
death, resignation, retirement, transfer, expiry or termination of the appointment, or due to temporary absence of the
[Chairperson]
[Substituted for the word 'Chairman' vide Rajasthan Act
4 of 2007
, Published in Rajasthan Government Gazette Extraordinary, Part IV-A, dated 10-4-2007, page 1(18).]
or of any member.
89.
Indemnity.
- No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against any officer or official of the State Government for
anything which is done or intended to be done under this Act or the rules made thereunder in good faith.
Page 54/138
----- PAGE 55 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
90.
Bar to proceedings except as provided in this Act.
- No assessment made and no order passed by any officer appointed or authority constituted under this Act, shall be
called into question, except as provided in this Act.
91.
[ General Powers of the Commissioner.
[Substituted by Rajasthan Finance Act, 2014 (Act No. 14 of 2014), dated 31.7.2014.]
(1)
The Commissioner may from time to time, issue such orders, instructions and directions to all officers and persons
employed in the execution of this Act as he may deem fit for the administration of this Act, and all such officers and
persons shall observe and follow such orders, instructions and directions of the Commissioner.
(2)
For the purposes of official use, the Commissioner may, by notice in any newspaper, or in such other manner as he
deems proper, call upon all dealers or any class of dealers or persons to furnish such information, statement or return as
may be specified in the notice issued in this behalf.
(3)
No such orders, instructions, or directions shall be issued under sub-section (1) so as to interfere with the discretion of
any appellate authority in the exercise of its appellate functions.
(4)
Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, the Commissioner may, on his own motion or on an
application by a registered dealer liable to pay tax under this Act, if he considers it necessary or expedient so to do, for
the purpose of maintaining uniformity in the work of assessments and collection of revenue, clarify the rate of tax
payable under this Act in respect of goods liable to tax under this Act, and all officers and persons employed in the
execution of this Act shall observe and follow such clarification.
(5)
No such application under sub-section (4) shall be entertained unless it is accompanied by proof of payment of such fee,
paid in such manner, as may be
prescribed.]
92.
Power to enforce evidence.
- Any officer not below the rank of Assistant Commercial Taxes Officer or the appellate authority or the Tax Board, while
exercising powers or discharging duties under any of the provisions of this Act, shall have the same powers as are
vested in a court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act No. V of 1908) when trying a suit, in respect of
the following matters arising in any proceeding under this Act, namely:-
(a)
enforcing the attendance of any person and examining him on oath or affirmation;
(b)
compelling the production of documents; and
(c)
issuing commission for examination of witness,
and the proceeding before the said officer or authority shall be deemed to be a judicial proceeding within the meaning of
sections 193, 196 and 228 of the Indian Penal Code (Central Act XLV of 1860).
93.
Power to seek assistance from police officer or other officer.
- An officer or official exercising the powers under this Act, may take the assistance of any police officer or other officer
of the Government, and upon such request for assistance being made, the police officer or such other officer shall
render necessary help in accordance with law.
94.
Disclosure of information relating to a dealer.
(1)
Where any information about the registration, returns and assessment or matters incidental thereto, of a dealer is
Page 55/138
----- PAGE 56 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
require. -
(a)
by a court in connection with any proceeding before it; or
(b)
by a police officer in connection with any investigation of a case; or
(c)
by any Government department for any official purpose, the assessing authority or any other officer may furnish the
information under his possession to such court, police officer or Government department.
(2)
Where any information as referred to in sub-section (1) is required by a person other than a court, a police officer or a
Government department, such person shall make an application to the Commissioner in the prescribed manner and on
payment of a prescribed fee, and the Commissioner may after he is satisfied that there are no considerations justifying
its refusal, furnish or cause to be furnished the information to the applicant.
95.
Automation.
(1)
The State Government may, by notification in Official Gazette, provide that the provisions contained in the Information
Technology Act, 2000 and the rules made and directions given thereunder, including the provisions relating to digital
signatures, electronic governance, attribution, acknowledgement and dispatch of electronic records, secure electronic
records and secure digital signatures and digital signature certificates as are specified in the said notification, shall, in so
far as they may, as afar as feasible, apply to the procedures under this Act.
(2)
[ Where any return, application, communication or intimation is submitted by a dealer or his business manager or by a
person, electronically through the official website of the Commercial Taxes Department, such return, application,
communication or intimation shall be deemed to be submitted by him, if the dealer or business manager or person has
given his consent to use the website for e-filing in the prescribed manner:
Provided that dealer or business manager or person, who has consented to use the official website of the Department
shall not retract from or repudiate such e-documents submitted by him through the website.
(3)
Where any notice, communication or intimation is served on a dealer or his business manger or any person
electronically through the official website of the Commercial Taxes Department, then, said notice, communication or
intimation shall not be deemed to be invalid only on the ground that it is not personally signed or digitally signed or is not
served properly.]
[Substituted by Rajasthan Finance Act, 2014 (Act No. 14 of 2014), dated 31.7.2014.]
Chapter XI
Miscellaneous Provisions
96.
[
[Deleted by Rajasthan Finance Act, 2014 (Act No. 14 of 2014), dated 31.7.2014.]
***]
96. Constitution of Tax Settlement Board.- (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the State Government
may, by notification in the Official Gazette, constitute a Tax Settlement Board consisting of a[Chairperson]
[Substituted for the word 'Chairman' vide Rajasthan Act
4 of 2007
, Published in Rajasthan Government Gazette Extraordinary, Part IV-A, dated 10-4-2007, page 1(18).]
and such other members, as it may deem fit, to resolve such disputes, as maybe prescribed, relating to outstanding
demand of tax, or arrears of tax, interest or penalty payable under this Act; and such Board shall undertake to resolve
the dispute whenever so requested by the dealer or person concerned.
(2) The Tax Settlement Board shall have such powers and follow such procedure as may be prescribed.
(3) The order of settlement passed by the Tax Settlement Board shall be final and shall not be called in question in any
Civil Court or any other authority.
Page 56/138
----- PAGE 57 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
97.
Court fees payable under this Act.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, all applications, appeals and other
proceedings under this Act shall require court fee stamps of such value as may be prescribed.
(2)
The State Government, shall be exempted from court fee leviable under this Act and the rules made thereunder.
97A.
[ No refund etc. in case of retrospective exemption.
[Inserted by Rajasthan Act
No. 11 of 2008
, dated 3.4.2008.]
- Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act. Where amendment in a Schedule results in exemption from tax or,
otherwise tax is exempted under this Act, with retrospective effect, the amount charged or collected by a dealer till the
date of such amendment or exemption-
(i)
shall be deposited with the State Government; and
(ii)
if already deposited, shall not be refunded, and any input tax credit availed in respect of such amount shall be reversed.]
97B.
[ Delegation of powers.
[Inserted by Rajasthan Act
No. 15 of 2011
, dated 11.4.2011.]
- The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, direct that subject to such conditions, if any, as may
be specified in the notification, any power exercisable by an assessing authority under this Act may be exercised by
such officer of the State Government, as may be specified in the notification.]
98.
Power to remove difficulties.
(1)
Where any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the State Government may, by notification make
such orders not inconsistent with this Act, as may appear to be necessary or expedient for removing the difficulty.
(2)
No order under sub-section (1) shall be made after the expiration of three years from the date of commencement of this
Act.
(3)
Every order made under sub-section (1) Shall be laid before the House of the State Legislature.
99.
Power to make rules.
(1)
The State Government may by notification in the Official Gazette, make rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act.
(2)
All rules made under this Act, shall be laid, as soon as may be after they are so made, before the House of the State
Legislature, while it is in session, for a period of not less than fourteen days which may be comprised in one session or
in two successive sessions and if before the expiry of the sessions in which they are so laid or in the session
immediately following the House of the State Legislature makes any modification in any of such rules or resolves that
any such rules should not be made, such rules shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect,
as the case may be, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done thereunder.
100.
Repeal and savings.
Page 57/138
----- PAGE 58 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
(1)
The Rajasthan Sales Tax Act, 1994 (Act
No. 22 of 1995
) shall stand repealed on and from the date of the commencement of this Act and the provisions of the Rajasthan
General Clauses Act, [1955]
[Substituted for the word '1995' vide Rajasthan Act
4 of 2007
, Published in Rajasthan Government Gazette Extraordinary, Part IV-A, dated 10-4-2007, page 1(18).]
(Act No. 8 of [1955]
[Substituted for the word '1995' vide Rajasthan Act
4 of 2007
, Published in Rajasthan Government Gazette Extraordinary, Part IV-A, dated 10-4-2007, page 1(18).]
) shall apply to such repeal.
(2)
Without prejudice to the generality of sub-section (1)-
(a)
anything done or any action taken including any appointment, notification, notice, order, rule or form made or issued,
authorities or powers conferred, processes issued under the repealed Act shall be deemed to have been done or taken
or issued under the provisions of this Act in so far as the same is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or rules
made there under and shall continue to be in force accordingly unless and until superseded by any thing done or action
taken under this Act.
(b)
any authorities or Board constituted under the repealed Act shall be deemed to have been constituted under the
provisions of this Act.
(c)
the modified limitations or the newly introduced limitations provided in this Act shall apply prospectively and all events
occurred and all issues arose prior the date of commencement of this Act, shall be governed by the limitations provided
or the provisions contained in the repealed Act.
Schedule
Note. - Schedules I to VI are substituted by Amending Notification dated 31-3-2006, Published In Rajasthan Gazette,
Extraordinary Part IV-C(II), dated 31-3-2006, page 555(4). After that State Government made several amendments in
these schedules on different dates. The amended position of all the Schedules are given hereunder.
I
(See sub-section (1) of section 8)
As amended subsequently by the following notifications:-
1. Notification dated 11-4-2006, Published in Rajasthan Gazette, Extraordinary Part IV (C), dated 13-4-2006, page
15(20) w.e.f. 1-4-2006;
2. Notification dated 11-4-2006, Published in Rajasthan Gazette, Extraordinary Part IV (C), dated 20-4-2006, page
33(3);
3. Notification dated 28-4-2006, Published in Rajasthan Gazette, Extraordinary Part IV (C), dated 29-4-2006, page
47(4);
4. Notification dated 1-6-2006, Published in Rajasthan Gazette, Extraordinary Part IV (C), dated 1-6-2006, page 87(1);
and
5. Notification dated 9-3-2007, Published in Rajasthan Gazette, Extraordinary Part IV (C), dated 9-3-2007, page 438.
Goods Exempt from Tax
S. No.
Description of Goods
Conditions, if any
1
2
3
Page 58/138
----- PAGE 59 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
1.
Agricultural
implements manually operated or animal driven or tractor or power
driven, spare parts and accessories thereof, namely:-
(a) Ordinary
Agricultural implements: 1. Hand Hoe (Khurpa or Khurpi), 2.
Spade; 3. Gandasa; 4. Pick i.e. khudali; 5. Axe; 6. Khanta; 7.
Belcha; 8. Patela; 9. Hand-driven chaff cutters and their parts
(except bolts, nuts and springs); 10. Sickle; 11. Beguri; 12.
Hand-wheel hoe; 13. Horticultural tools like budding, grafting
knife, secteur, pruning shear or hook, hedge shear; sprinkler,
rake; 14. Sprayer, duster and sprayer-cum-duster; 15. Soil
injector; 16. Jandra; 17. Wheel barrow; 18. Winnowing fan or
winnower; 19. Dibbler; 20. Puddler; 21. Fertilizer seed
broadcaster; 22. Maize Sheller; 23. Groundnut decroticator; 24.
Manure or seed screen; 25. Flame gun; 26. Seed grader; 27. Tasla
includes Ghamela, Tagari and Parat, made of ferrous metal; 27A.
Crowbar (sabbal); 28. Tangli; 29. Sprayer; 30. Parts and
accessories specific to the sprinkler system and drip irrigation
system including pipes which are used exclusively for sprinkler
and drip system (but not used for ordinary works as carriage
pipes).
(b) Animal driven
agricultural implements;
1. Plough including
disce-Plough; 2. Teeth of the plough; 3. Harrow; 4. Cultivator;
5. Seed drill, fertilizer drill, seed-cum-fertilizer drill; 5.
Tiller with or without seeding attachment; 17. Land-leveller or
scoop; 8. Chaff cutters and their parts (except bolts, nuts and
springs); 9. Axles and rima of animal-driven vehicles; 10.
Persian wheel and spare parts; 11. Roller; 12. Yoke; 13. Planter;
14. Plank or float; 15. Ridger; 16. Ditcher; 17. Bund former; 18.
Thrasher or palla; 19. Transplanter; 20. Reaper; 21. Mower; 22.
Sugar cane crusher; 23. Cane juice boiling pan and grating; 24.
Cart.
(c) Tractor or power
driven Agricultural Implements:
1. Thrasher 2. Chaff Cutters and their parts
(except bolts,nuts and springs); 3. Winnower; 4. Disc. Plough; 5.
Cultivator; 6. Harrow 7. Tillers with or without seeding
attachments; 18. Seed drills; 9. Land levelers; 10. Trolley of
tractor.
2.
Aids and implements used by handicapped
persons/Artificial Hearing Aids, Artificial Limbs, Audiometer,
Braille writer, Braille Typewriter, Braille Shorthand Writer,
Braille frame, Braille Instrument, Braille Thermometer, Braille
Lactometer, Braille Barometer, Braille printing machine, Braille
paper, Braille books, Braille slate and Braille watch, Crutches
and calipers for disabled persons, Speech trainer, Tricycle used
by disabled persons. Wheeled chair used by disabled persons.
Page 59/138
----- PAGE 60 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
3.
Aquatic feed, poultry feed and cattle feed,
including grass, hay and straw, gwar churi, gwar churi, gwar
korma, supplement and husk of cereals and pulses, bran of wheat,
concentrates and additives and de-oiled cake.
4.
Betal leaves.
5.
Books and periodicals and journals, including
maps charts and globe.
6.
Charcoal.
7.
Coarse grains namely maize, jowar, bajra and
flour thereof.
8.
Condoms and contraceptives.
9.
Cotton & silk yarn in hank.
10.
Charkha, Amber Charkha, Handlooms and their
parts and accessories, Handlooms fabrics and Gandhi Topi, All
Khadi garments/goods and made ups.
11.
Curd, Lussi, Butter milk and separated milk.
12.
Electrical energy.
13.
Earthen pot.
14.
Fire wood except Casuarina and Eucalyptus
timber; Gobar ke kande and solid briquettes made of agricultural
waste.
15.
Fresh milk and pasteurized milk other than UHT
milk and skimmed milk powder.
16.
Fresh plants, saplings and fresh flowers
including mahua flowers.
17.
Flashnet and Fishnet fabris, fish seeds,
prawn/shrimp seeds.
18.
Fresh vegetables and fruits.
19.
Garlic, ginger, dried vegetables e.g. kair,
sangari but excluding chilies, when not sold in sealed
containers.
20.
All types of hangies (except those made from
precious metals) lac, its dana and products, chapadi, bairja and
Page 60/138
----- PAGE 61 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
glass chattons.
21.
Human Blood & blood plasma.
22.
Indigenous handmade musical instruments,
components and parts thereof.
23.
Kumkum, Bindi, Alta & Sindur, mahawar,
mehandi, leaves and its powder, kajal, surma, hair pins, hair
bank, sari clip (other than that of precious metals), rubber
band, safety pin, Chutila.
24.
National flag.
26.
Organic manure.
27.
Non-judicial stamp paper sold by Government
Treasuries, postal items like envelope, postcard etc. sold by
Government rupee note & cheques.
28.
Raw wool and waste thereof.
29.
Semen including frozen semen.
30.
Slate and slate pencils.
31.
Silk worm laying cocoon & raw silk.
32.
Tender green coconut and watery coconut.
33.
Taddy, Neera and Acark.
34.
Bread (branded or otherwise) Excluding pizza
bread.
35.
Salt (branded or otherwise)
36.
Water other than aerated, mineral, distilled,
medicinal, ionic, battery, de-mineralized water and water sold in
container.
37.
Pappad, Bari and Mangori.
38.
Goods taken under customs bond for re-export
after manufacturing or otherwise.
39.
Textile and fabric on which additional excise
duty was leviable but exempted by the Government of India.
40.
Tobacco on which additional excise duty was
leviable but exempted by the Government of India.
Page 61/138
----- PAGE 62 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
41.
Sugar on which additional excise duty was
leviable but exempted by the Government of India.
42.
Kirpan.
43.
Prasadam by religious institutions including
mishri, makhana, batasha as part of prasad, panchamritam,
namakatti and vibhuti.
44.
Rakhi and Sacred thereof, commonly known as
yagyopavit, harmala (mala made of cot-ton/silk/zari yarn), mod,
turra, kalangi, embroidery and zari articles, that is to say,
imi, zari, kasab, salama, dabka, chumki, gota, sitara, naqsi,
kora, glass bead, badla and mangalsutra.
45.
Religious pictures not for use as calendar,
religious pictured tiles, Panchang, and Idols of deities made of
stone or marble.
46.
Chalk stick, Takhti and unbranded school bags
upto Rs. 200/-.
47.
Idols made of clay or plaster of paris and Clay
lamps.
48.
Mudddhas made of sarkanda, moonj, ban and its
rope and basket, phool buhari jhadoo and Unbranded broomaticks.
49.
Puffed rice, commonly known as Chira, parched
rice, commonly known as khei, kheel, murmura, poha and a parched
gram and makki ka poha.
50.
Husk including groundnut.
51.
Leaf plates and cups-pressed or stitched.
52.
Kites manja and charkhi.
53.
Kuttu, singhara, rajgira including atta there
of, sunwakhya and sabudana.
54.
Loban, dhoop, hand made agarbatti. deepak, puja
ki ghanti, puja ka chopda, shankh, roli and moli.
55.
Handicrafts including blue pottery and puppets.
56.
Seeds of grass vegetables and flowers,
truthfully labeled seeds and seeds certified by the certification
agency under the seeds act, 1966 (54 of 1966),when sold in seal
bags or containers.
Page 62/138
----- PAGE 63 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
57.
Rajasthani audio/video music cassettes including
CD and DVD.
58.
Rubber/plastic/rexine footwear having, maximum
retail price less than Rs. 200 per pair provided that the MRP is
indelible marked or embossed on the footwear itself and Deshi
Jootiyan.
59.
Razai up to Rs. 750/- and Razai Cover up to Rs.
150/- per item.
60.
Marble and other stone slurry, sludge and fly
ash.
60-A.
Asbestos cement sheets and bricks having
contents of fly ash 25% or more by weight.
Subject to the condition of entry in Registration
Certificate of the selling dealer.
61.
Country liquor, Indian made Foreign Liquor and
Beer.
62.
Cottonseed oil cake.
Subject to the condition of entry in Registration
Certificate of the selling dealer.
63.
Old jute bags and old HDPE bags.
-do-
64.
Handmade soap.
65.
Toys upto Rs. 300/- per item but excluding all
kinds of electronic toys.
66.
Blood bags.
67.
Mica.
68.
Pillow cover up to Rs. 25/- per item.
69.
Articles of marble up to Rs. 300/- per item.
70.
Niwar made of cotton.
71.
Saree fall.
72.
Not found
73.
bura and mishri.
74-77.
Page 63/138
----- PAGE 64 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
Not found
78.
Ratanjyot
79.
Crude bio-diesel and 100% bio-diesel (B100)
80.
Helmet
81.
Unstiched bed sheet
82.
Woven label tapes, elastic nylon/fabric tapes
and laces
II
[See sub-section (3) of section 8]
As amended subsequently by the following notifications:-
1. Notification dated 25-4-2006, Published in Rajasthan Gazette, Extraordinary Part IV (C), dated 28-4-2006, page 43(3)
w.e.f. 1-4-2006;
2. Notification dated 28-4-2006, Published in Rajasthan Gazette, Extraordinary Part IV (C), dated 29-4-2006, page 47(1)
w.e.f. 1-4-2006;
3.
Notification dated 29-4-2006, Published in Rajasthan Gazette, Extraordinary Part IV (C), dated 1-5-2006, page 51(1)
w.e.f. 1-4-2006;
4. Notification dated 11-9-2006, Published in Rajasthan Gazette, Extraordinary Part IV (C), dated 13-9-2006, page
175(3); and
5. Notification dated 9-3-2007, Published in Rajasthan Gazette, Extraordinary Part IV (C), dated 9-3-2007, page 439.
Exemption to Persons or Class of Persons
S.No.
Category of person/Persons
Conditions, if any
1
2
3
1.
United Nations Organisation and its constituent agencies.
2.
Foreign Diplomatic Missions and their Diplomats.
3.
Aviation turbine fuel to any Airlines establishing ?HUB?
in the State.
One year from the date ..... of commencement of HUB.
4-6.
Not found
7.
Food Corporation of India.
8.
Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Ltd., Rajasthan
Rajya Vidyut Prasaran Ltd., Ajmer Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Ltd.,
Jaipur Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Ltd., Jodhpur Vidyut Vitaran Nigam
Ltd.
9.
The dealers who were eligible and were granted
Page 64/138
----- PAGE 65 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
benefit of exemption from payment of tax for specified period or
for specified amount linked with investment, under notifications
issued under the Rajasthan Sales Tax Act, 1994 (Act No. 22 of
1995), which were in force on March 31,2006.
10-14.
Not found
15.
Dealer of person who carried or causes to be
carries through vehicle or carrier goods liable to pay tax under
sub-section (1) of section 6 of the Act.
16.
Registered dealers dealing in used motor vehicles.
17-18.
Not found
19.
Self Help Group
20.
Manufacturers of asbestos cement sheets and bricks.
III
[See section 4]
As amended subsequently by the following notifications:-
1. Notification dated 11-4-2006, Published in Rajasthan Gazette, Extraordinary Part IV (C), dated 13-4-2006, page
15(5);
2. Notification dated 1-6-2006, Published in Rajasthan Gazette, Extraordinary Part IV (C), dated 1-6-2006, page 87(3);
3. Notification dated 9-3-2007, Published in Rajasthan Gazette, Extraordinary Part IV (C), dated 9-3-2007, page 439.
Goods Taxable at 1%
S.No.
Description of Goods
Rate of Tax %
Conditions, if any
1
2
3
4
1.
Bullion
1
2.
Jewellery, ornaments and articles made of Gold,
silver, platinum and other precious metals and alloys thereof,
with or without precious or semi precious stones including
diamonds, vark of gold or silver.
1
3.
Precious and semi-precious gems and stones,
synthetic gems and stones (including Kharad), pearls (whether
real or cultured), agate and diamond.
1
4.
All types of pulses whether whole, split or
broken form including besan thereof.
Page 65/138
----- PAGE 66 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
1
up to 31-3-2008
IV
[See section 4]
1. Notification dated 11-4-2006, Published in Rajasthan Gazette, Extraordinary Part IV (C), dated 13-4-2006, page
15(5);
2. Notification dated 19-4-2006, Published in Rajasthan Gazette, Extraordinary Part IV (C), dated 20-4-2006, page
33(5).
3. Notification dated 28-4-2006, Published in Rajasthan Gazette, Extraordinary Part IV (C), dated 29-4-2006, page
47(6);
4. Notification dated 1-6-2006, Published in Rajasthan Gazette, Extraordinary Part IV (C), dated 1-6-2006, page 87(3);
5. Notification dated 9-3-2007, Published in Rajasthan Gazette, Extraordinary Part IV (C), dated 9-3-2007, page 440.
Goods Taxable at 4%
S.No.
Description of Goods
Rate of Tax %
Conditions, if any
1
2
3
4
1.
Agriculture implements other than mentioned in Schedule-1.
4
-
2.
All equipments for communications such as,
private branch exchange (PBX) and Electronic Private Automatic
Branch Exchange (EPABX) and components and part thereof.
4
-
3.
All intangible goods like copyright, patent, REP license etc.
4
-
4.
All kinds of bricks including fly ash bricks, refractory
bricks and asphaltic roofing earthen tiles and refractory
monolithic.
4
-
5.
All metal castings and manhole covers made of cast iron
casting.
1
-
6.
All types of yarn other than cotton and silk yam in hank and
sewing thread and waste.
4
-
Page 66/138
----- PAGE 67 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
7.
All utensils including pressure cookers/pans and cutlery but
excluding utensils made of precious metals.
4
-
8.
Animal shoe nails.
4
-
9.
Apalam, vadam and vathal.
4
-
10.
Arecanut power and betel nut.
4
-
11.
Article made of rolled gold and imitation jwellary.
4
-
12.
Atukulu.
4
-
13.
Bamboo.
4
-
14.
Bamboo matting.
4
-
15.
Bearing and its components.
4
-
16.
Bet sheet, pillow cover (excluding pillow cover up to Rs.
25./- per item) and other textile made-ups.
4
-
17. [
[Added by Notification No. S.O. 142-A, dated 28.8.2014 (w.e.f. 14.7.2014)]
Dhaniya whole form
2.0
Any amount of tax charged or collected over and above 2 percent, shall also be deposited with the State Government
and already deposited tax shall not be refunded.]
18.
Beehive.
4
Page 67/138
----- PAGE 68 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
-
19.
Beltings.
4
-
20.
Bicycles, tricycles, cycle rickshaws and parts, components,
accessories, tyres and tubes thereof.
4
-
21.
Bio-fertilizers and Micronutrients also plant growth promoters
and regulators, herbicides, redenticide, insecticide, weedicide
etc.
4
-
22.
Bitumen.
4
-
23.
Bone meal.
4
-
24.
Buckets made of iron and steel, aluminum, plastic or other
materials (except precious materials).
4
-
25.
Bukhari.
4
-
26.
Candles.
4
-
27.
Capital goods means plant and machinery including parts and
accessories thereof.
4
-
28.
Centrifugal, mono-bloc, diesel engine up to 10
H.page and submersible pump sets including hose-collar,
hose-socket, hose- connector, hose-clip, hose-nipple, foot-valve
and delta starter for water handling and parts thereof.
4
-
29.
Chemical fertilizers and pesticides.
Page 68/138
----- PAGE 69 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
4
-
30.
Chiken Products.
4
-
31.
Clay including fireclay, fine china clay, ball clay.
4
-
32.
Coal tar.
4
-
33.
Coconut fibre.
4
-
34.
Coconut in shell and separated kernel of coconut other than
kopra.
4
-
35.
Coffee beans and seeds, cocoa pod and beans, green tea leaf
and chicory.
4
-
36.
Coir and Coir products excluding coir mattresses.
4
-
37.
Comba.
4
-
38.
Computer stationery
4
-
39.
Cotton and cotton waste.
4
-
40.
Crucibles.
4
-
41.
Cups, glasses, plates, forks and spoons made of paper, plastic
or thermocol.
Page 69/138
----- PAGE 70 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
4
-
42.
Declared goods as specified in 14 of the central Sales Tax
Act, 1956.
4
-
43.
Drugs and medicines including vaccines, syringe
and dressings medicated ointment produced under drugs licence,
light liquid paraffin of IP grade.
4
-
44.
Edible oils and all types of oil cake but excluding cotton
seed oilcake.
4
-
45.
Electrodes.
4
-
46.
[Omitted vide Notification dated 11-4-2006]
4
-
47.
[Omitted vide Notification dated 28-4-2006]
4
-
48.
Feeding bottles, nipples.
4
-
49.
Ferrous and non-ferrous metals and alloys, non-metals, such as
aluminum, copper, zinc and extrusions of those.
4
-
50.
Fibres of all types and fiber waste.
4
-
51.
Flour, atta, Maida, suji, besan etc.
4
-
52.
Fly ash.
4
-
Page 70/138
----- PAGE 71 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
53.
Fried grams.
4
-
54.
Gabba.
4
-
55.
Gur, juggery, and edible variety of rab gur.
4
-
56.
Gypsum in all its forms.
4
-
57.
Hand pumps and spare parts and fittings.
4
-
58.
Hand made safety matches.
4
-
59.
Ha wan samagri including sambrani.
4
-
60.
Herb, bark, dry plant, dry root, commonly known as jari booti
and dry flower.
4
-
61.
Honey.
4
-
62.
Hose pipe and fittings thereof.
4
-
63.
Hosiery goods.
4
-
64.
Bran of cereals except wheat.
4
-
65.
L.T. products and specified in Part-A of this Schedule.
Page 71/138
----- PAGE 72 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
4
-
66.
Ice.
4
-
67.
Incense sticks commonly known as agarbatti, dhupkathi or
dhupbati.
4
-
68.
Industrial cables (High voltage cables including
PVC cables for voltage exceeding 1000 volts, XLPE Cables, jelly
filled cables, optical fibre cables).
4
-
69.
Industrial Inputs as specified in Part-B of this Schedule.
4
-
70.
Insulators.
4
-
71.
Kangri.
4
-
72.
Katha.
4
-
73.
Kerosene oil sold through PDS.
4
-
74.
Kerosene lamp/hurricane lantern, kerosene wick
stove, kerosene pressure stove, petro-max pressure lamp, glass
chimney and petro-max gas mantle and accessories and parts
thereof.
4,
-
75.
Khandasari.
4
-
76.
Khoya/Khoa.
4
Page 72/138
----- PAGE 73 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
-
77.
Knitting wool.
4
-
78.
Lai.
4
-
79.
Lac and chapadi.
4
-
80.
Lignits.
4
-
81.
Lime, Lime stone, clinker and dolomite.
4
-
82.
Linear Alkyl benzene, L.A.B. Sul-phonic Acid, Alfa Olufin
Sulphonate.
4
-
83.
Loi.
4
-
84.
Mat locally known as madur, made wholly or principally of
cypercus corymlosus known as gola mathi, madurkathi or eyperus.
4
-
85.
Mat sticks and reed obtainable from Cyperus Kathi, mutha or
Cyperus Malacensis.
4
-
86.
Medical equipment/devices and implants.
4
-
87.
Mekhla Chaddar.
4
-
88.
Plastic footwear including moulded plastic footwear, hawai
chappals and straps thereof.
Page 73/138
----- PAGE 74 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
4
-
89.
Murmuralu, pelalu, atukulu.
4
-
90.
Niwar excluding cotton Niwar.
4
-
91.
Non-mechanised boats.
4
-
92.
Nuts, bolts, screws, fasteners, Fitting for
doors, window and furniture including (1) Hinges-butt, piano,
narrow, tee, handles for locks, furniture handles, furniture
knobs, drawer channel, furniture fitting, furniture hinges,
furniture catchers, (2) nails, revets, cuter pins, staples, panel
pins, blue cut taks, hob nails, (3) chains of all kinds, (4) all
kins of metal sections, including slotted angles, shelves and
accessories, (5) rods, rails, channels and curtain fittings, (6)
tower bolts, handles, aldrops, window stay, gate hook, door
stopper, brackets, card clamp, clips, corners, washers, eyelets,
hooks and eyes, hangers, haspe, pegs, pelmet fittings, sliding
door fittings, stoppers, suspenders, springs, magic eyes, trolley
wheels, pulleys and holdfasts, (7) wire brushes, (8) wire mesh,
metal mesh, wire netting and barbed wire.
4
-
93.
Oil seeds.
4
-
94.
Ores and minerals excluding (i) all lands of building stones
(ii) marble and (iii) granite in all their forms.
4
-
95.
Packing Material.
4
-
96.
Paddy, rice, wheat and pulses in whole grain, split or broken
form
4
-
97.
Paper of all kinds including newsprints, all kinds of
Page 74/138
----- PAGE 75 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
stationery goods, all types of exercise book, graph book,
laboratory note book, paper board and waste thereof.
4
-
98.
Pattu.
4
-
99.
Pipes of all varieties including G.I. pipes, C.I. pipes,
ductile pipes and PVC pipes and their fittings.
4
-
100.
Pizza bread.
4
-
101.
Plantain leaves.
4
-
102.
Plastic granules, plastic power, master batches and scrap.
4
-
103.
Porridge, 4
-
104.
Printed materials including diary, calendar etc.
4
-
105.
Printing ink excluding tonner and cartridges but including
aluminum plate, graphic art film, plaster film.
4
-
106.
Processed or preserved vegetables and fruits
including fruit jam, jelly, pickle, fruit squash, paste, fruit
drink and fruit juice (whether in sealed containers or
otherwise).
4
-
107.
Processed or preserved vegetables and fruit
including fruit jam, jelly, pickle, fruit squash, paste, fruit
drink and fruit juice (whether in sealed containers or
otherwise), sharbat and thandai.
4
-
Page 75/138
----- PAGE 76 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
108.
Pulp of hamboe, wood and paper.
4
-
109.
Quandakari.
4
-
110.
Rail coaches, engines and wagens and parts thereof.
4
-
111.
Rattan, reed (in Malayalam).
4
-
112. [
[Substituted by Notification No. S.O. 27, dated 24.5.2016.]
Ready-made garments.
5.5
-]
113.
Renewable energy devices and spare parts.
4
-
114.
Rice bran.
4
-
115.
River sand excluding bajari.
4
-
116.
Sabai grass and rope.
4
-
117.
Safety matches.
4
-
118.
Sattu.
4
-
119.
Sewing machines, its parts and accessories.
4
-
120.
Ship and other water vessels.
Page 76/138
----- PAGE 77 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
4
-
121.
Silk fabric excluding handloom silk fabric, not covered under
Schedule I.
4
-
122.
Sirali, bageshi, barroo, date, leaves, baskets, handmade
sooma, germa, made only of bamboo.
4
-
123.
Skimmed milk powder and UHT milk.
4
-
124.
Solvent oil other than organic solvent oil.
4
-
125.
Spectacles parts and components thereof, contact lens cleaner.
4
-
126. [
[Substituted by Notification No. S.O. 142, dated 28.8.2014 (w.e.f. 14.7.2014).]
Unmixed spices inculding turmeric, dry chillies, methi, ajwain, suwa, amchoor, asaliya, kathodi, hing (Asfoetida) and
sonth in all their forms (whether loose or in packages) excluding items specifically mentioned in any other Schedule.
5]
127.
Sports goods excluding apparels and footwear.
4
-
128.
Stainless Steel sheets.
4
-
129.
Starch and sage.
4
-
130.
Sugar not covered under Schedule I.
4
-
131.
Sweetmeat (Deshi) and unbranded namkins included dried potato
chips.
4
-
132.
Page 77/138
----- PAGE 78 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
Tamarind, tamarind seed and powder.
4
-
133.
Tapioca.
4
-
134.
Tea.
4
-
135.
Textile and fabrics not covered under Schedule I.
4
-
136.
Tobacco not covered under Schedule 1
4
-
137.
Tools.
4
-
138.
Toys excluding electronic toys,
4
-
139.
Tractors including parts, accessories and tyre-tube thereof.
4
-
140.
Transformers.
4
-
141.
Transmission towers.
4
-
142.
Umbrella, garden umbrella and parts thereof.
4
-
143.
Unprocessed green leaves of tea.
4
-
144.
Used cars.
4
-
Page 78/138
----- PAGE 79 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
145.
Vanaspati (Hydrogenated Vegetable Oil) and Deshi Ghee.
4
-
146.
Vegetable oil including gingili oil and bran oil.
4
-
146A.
Waste paper (raddi), empty bottles, broken glasses and plastic
waste.
4
-
147.
Wet dates.
4
-
148.
Willow vicker.
4
-
149.
Wooden crates.
4
-
150.
Writing Ink.
4
-
151.
Writing Instruments, geometry, boxes, colour boxes, crayons
and pencil sharpeners.
4
-
152.
Gulkand and gulabjal.
4
-
153.
Kirana items namely kala namak, sendha namak,
coconut powder, edible gond, isabgoal husk, rai, postdana, magaj
of all kinds, saffron, silver vark, kaluanji, saji and dry
fruits.
4
-
154.
Unbranded bakery products including cookies but excluding
cakes and pastries; confectionery excluding chocolates.
4
-
155.
Page 79/138
----- PAGE 80 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
Hydraulic excavators (earth Moving and mining machinery),
mobile cranes and hydaulic dumpers.
4
-
156.
Box, kothi, sandook, peti, milk cane, bhagona made from Iron
sheet; weight and measures, tawa, kadai, tai, sigri, chimta,
imamdasta, jhar and chalani.
4
-
157.
Ropes made of natural fibres.
4
-
158.
Namda, felt, nov-woven fabrics and its products.
4
-
159.
Unbranded household plastic goods, namely comb,
jug, soapcase, mug, photo-frames, chakla, belan, patta chhalani,
lunch box, pencil box, bottles, trays, tokaras including baskets
mats, basins, tubs and drums provided that per item price does
not exceed rupees two hundred.
4
-
160.
Textiles screen design.
4
-
161.
Not found
-
162.
Not found
-
163.
Sugar candy made of sugar and glucose but excluding coco.
4
-
164.
Pollution control equipments and parts thereof.
4
-
165.
Digestive tablet, churan, powders and liquids.
4
-
Part-A [See S. No. of 65 of Schedule IV]
Goods Under Category of it Products.
S.No.
Page 80/138
----- PAGE 81 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
Description of Goods
Rate of Tax %
1
2
3
1.
Word processing machines, Electronic typewriters.
4
2.
Electronic calculators.
4
3.
Computer system and peripherals, computer printers and
electronic diaries.
4
4.
D.C. Micromotors, Stepper motors of an output not exceeding
37.5 watts.
4
5.
Uninterrupted power supply (UPS).
4
6.
Permanent magnets and articles intended to become permanent
magnet (ferrites).
4
7.
Electrical apparatus for line telephony or line
telegraphy, including line telephone sets with cordless handsets
and tele communication apparatus for carriage-current lien
systems or for digital line systems; video phones.
4
8.
Microphones, multimedia speakers, headphones, earphones and
combines microphones/speaker sets.
4
9.
Telephone answering machines.
4
10.
Prepared unrecorded media for sound recording or
similar recording of other phenomena including (Compact Disc (CD)
and Digital Versatile Disc. (DVD).
4
11.
I.T. software on any media.
4
12.
Transmission appartus other than appartus for
radio broadcasting or TV broadcasting. Transmission apparatus
incorporating reception apparatus, cellular telephones.
Page 81/138
----- PAGE 82 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
4
13.
Radio communication receivers, Radio Pagers.
4
14.
Aerials and antennas.
4
15.
LCD Panels, LED panels.
4
16.
Electrical capacitors fixed, variable or adjustable (pre-
set).
4
17.
Electrical resistors (including rheostats and potentiometers)
other than heating resistors.
4
18.
Printed Circuits.
4
19.
Switches, Connectors and Relay for up to 5 amps at voltage not
exceeding 250 volts, electronic fuses.
4
20.
Data/Graphic Display Tubes other than TV Picture tubes.
4
21.
Diodes, transistors & similar semi-conductor
device, photo sensitive semi conductor devices, including photo
voltaic cells whether or not assembled in modules or made-up in
to panels; light emitting diodes; mounted piezo-electric
crystals.
4
22.
Electronic Integrated Circuits and Micro assemblies.
4
23.
Signal Generators.
4
24.
Optical fibre cables and joining kits and joining materials
thereof.
4
25.
Optical fibre and optical fibre bundles and joining kits and
joining materials thereof.
4
26.
Liquid Crystal Devices, flat panel display devices.
Page 82/138
----- PAGE 83 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
4
27.
Cathode Ray Oscilloscopes, Spectrum analysers,
Cross talk meters gain measuring instruments, distortion factor
meters, psophometres, network and logic analysers and Signal
analysers.
4
28.
Parts of 1 to 27 above.
4
Part-B (See S. No. 69 of Schedule IV)
Goods Under Category of Industrial Inputs
S.No.
Description of Goods
Rate of Tax %
1
2
3
1.
Animal (including fish) fats, oils, crude, refined or
purified.
4
2.
Glycerol, Crude glycer of waters and glycerol lyes.
4
3.
Vegetable waxe (other than triglycerides) bees wax, other
insect waxes an supermaceti, whether or not refined or coloured.
4
4.
Animal or vegetable fats boiled, oxidised, dehydrated,
sulphurised, blown, polymerised by heat in vaccum or in inert
gas.
4
5.
Liquid glucose (non-medicinal), Dextrose Syrup.
4
6.
Denatured ethyl alcohol of any strength.
4
7.
Manganese ores and concentrates, including ferruginous
manganese ores and concentrates with manganese content of 20% or
more, calculated on dry weight.
4
8.
Copper ores and concentrates.
4
9.
Nickel ores and concentrates.
4
Page 83/138
----- PAGE 84 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
10.
Cobalt ors and concentrates.
4
11.
Aluminum ores and concentrates.
4
12.
Lead ores and concentrates
4
13.
Zinc ores and concentrates.
4
14.
Tin ores and concentrates.
4
15.
Chromium ores and concentrates.
4
16.
Tungsten ores and concentrates.
4
17.
Uranium or thorium ores and concentrates.
4
18.
Molybdenum ores an concentrates.
4
19.
Titanium ores and concentrates.
4
20.
Niobium, Tantalum, Vanadium or zirconium ores and
concentrates.
4
21.
Precious metal ores and concentrates.
4
22.
Other ores and concentrates.
4
23.
Granulated slag (slag sand) from the manufacture of iron or
steel.
4
24.
Benzole.
4
25.
Toluole.
4
26.
Page 84/138
----- PAGE 85 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
Xvlole.
4
27.
Napthalene.
4
28.
Phenols.
4
29.
Creosol oils.
4
30.
Normal paraffin.
4
31.
Butadine.
4
32.
Fluorine, Chlorine, Bromine and Iodine.
4
33.
Sulphur, sublimed or precipitated, colloidal Sulphur.
4
34.
Carbon (carbon black & other forms of carbon not elsewhere
specified or included).
4
35.
Hydrogen, rare gases other than non-metals.
4
[35-A.
[Inserted by Notification No. S.O. 238, dated 27.1.2015 (w.e.f. 1.4.2006).]
Carbon dioxide
5]
36.
Alkali or alkaline earth metals, rare earth metals, scandium
and yttrium, whether or not intermixed or interalloyed, mercury.
4
37.
Hydrogen chloride (hydrochloric acid), chlorosul-phuric acid.
4
38.
Sulphuric acid and anhydrides thereof, Oleum.
4
39.
Nitric acid, Sulphonitric acids.
4
40.
Diphosphorous pentaoxide, phosphoric acid and polyphosphoric
acids.
4
Page 85/138
----- PAGE 86 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
41.
Oxides of boron, boric acids.
4
42.
Halides and halide oxides of non-metals.
4
43.
Sulphides of non-metals, commercial phosphorus trisulphide.
4
44.
Ammonia, anhydrous or aqueous solution.
4
45.
Sodium hydroxide (caustic soda), Potassium hydroxide (caustic
potash) peroxides of sodium or potassium.
4
46.
Hydroxide and peroxide of magnesium, oxides, hydroxides and
peroxides of Strontium or Barium.
4
47.
Aluminum Irydroxide.
4
48..
Chromium oxides and hydroxides.
4
49.
Manganese oxides.
4
50.
Iron oxides and hydroxides.
4
51.
Cobalt oxides and hydroxides commercial cobalt oxides.
4
52.
Titanium oxides.
4
53.
Lead oxides, Red lead and Orange lead.
4
54.
Hydrazine & hydroxylamine and their inorganic salts other
inorganic bases, other metal oxides, hydroxides and peroxides.
4
55.
Flurides, fluorosilicates, fluroaluminates and other complex
fluorine salts.
4
56.
Chlorides, chloride oxides and chloride hydroxides, bromides
Page 86/138
----- PAGE 87 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
and bromide oxides, iodides and iodide oxides.
4
57.
Bleach liquid, Bleaching powder, sodium hypochlorides.
4
58.
Chlorates and perchlorates, Bromates and Perbromates, Iodates
and periodates.
4
59.
Sulphides, Polysulphides.
4
60.
Dithionites and sulphoxylates.
4
61.
Sulphites, thiosulphates.
4
62.
Sodium sulfates, alums, Peroxosulphates (Persul-phates),
Sodium Hydrogen sulphate, Ferrous sulphate, Ferrous sulphate,
Copper sulphate, Amonium alum, potash alum and ferric alum,
Manganese sulphate, Strontium sulphate.
4
63.
Nitrites and Nitrates.
4
64.
Phosphinates (Hypophosphites), Phosphinates (Phosphates); and
polyphosphates.
4
65.
Carbonates, perxocarbonates (percarbonates), commercial
ammonium carbonates containing am-mountium carbonate.
4
66.
Cyanides, cyanide oxides and comples cyanides.
4
67.
Fulminates, cyanates and thiocyanates.
4
68.
Silicates, commercial alkali metal, silicates or sodium,
sodium metasilicates, sodium metasilicates of Potassium,
Magnesium Trisilicate.
4
69.
Borates, peroxoborates (perborates).
4
70.
Sodium bichromate.
Page 87/138
----- PAGE 88 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
4
71.
Sodium dichromate.
4
72.
Potassium dichromate.
4
73.
Radioactive chemical elements and radioactive isotopes
(including the fissile chemical elements and isotopes) &
their compounds.
4
74.
Isotopes other than those mentioned at Serial No. 73 above and
compounds inoraganic or organic of such isotopes.
4
75.
Compounds, inorganic or organic of rare earth metals, or
yttrium or of scandium or of mixtures of these metals.
4
76.
Hydrogen peroxide.
4
77.
Phosphides, whether or not chemically defined excluding
ferrophospherus.
4
78.
Silicon carbides.
4
79.
Calcium carbides.
4
80.
Ethylene, Propylene.
4
81.
Cyclic Hydrocarbons.
4
82.
Halogenated derivatives of Hydrocarbons.
4
83.
Sulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives of
hydrocarbons whether or not halogenated.
4
84.
Methanol.
4
85.
Di-Ethylene Glycol, Mono-Ethylene Glycol, Tri=Ethylene Glycol,
Page 88/138
----- PAGE 89 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
Ethylene Glycol, Heavy Ethylene Glycol.
4
86.
Cyclic alcohols and their halogenated, sulphonated, nitrated
or nitrosated derivatives.
4
87.
Halogenated, sulphonated nitrated or nitrostated derivatives
of phenols or phenol alcohols.
4
88.
Ethers, ether alcohols peroxides, ether peroxides, ketone
peroxides (whether or not chemically defined) & their
halogenated.
4
89.
Expoxides, epoxyalcohols, epoxyphenols & epoxyethers, with
a three membered ring and their halogenated sulphonated.
4
90.
Ethylene Oxide.
4
91.
Acetals and hemiacetals, whether or not with other oxygen
function and their halogenated, sulphonated, nitrated nitrosated.
4
92.
Aldehydes whether or not with other oxygen function, cyclic
polymers of aldehydes, Paraformaldehyde.
4
93.
Halogenated, sulphonated, nitrated or nitrosated derivatives
of products of Serial No. 92 above.
4
94.
Saturated acyclic monocarboxylic acids and their anhydrides,
halides, peroxides and peroxyacids, their halogenated,
sulphonated.
4
95.
Unsaturated acyclic monocarboxylic acids, cyclic
monocarboxylic acids, their anhydrides, halides, peroxides and
peroxyacids.
4
96.
Polycarboxylic acids, their anhydrides, halides, peroxides and
peroxyacids, their halogenated, sulphonated, nitrated derivities.
4
97.
Carboxylic acids with additional oxygen fuction and their
anhydrides, halides, peroxides and peroxyacid their halogenated.
Page 89/138
----- PAGE 90 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
4
98.
Phosphoric ester and their salts, including lac-tophosphates,
their halogenated, sulphonated nitrated or nitrostated
derivatives.
4
99.
Esters of other inorganic acids (excluding easter of hydrogen
halides) and their salts, their halogenated sulphonated nitrated.
4
100.
Amine-function compounds.
4
101.
Oxygen-function amino-compounds.
4
102.
Quaternary ammonium salts and hydroxides, lecithins and other
phosphoaminolipids.
4
103.
Carboxyamide-function compounds, amide-function compounds of
carbonic acid.
4
104.
Carboxyamide-function compounds including saccharin and its
salts and imine function compounds.
4
105.
Nitrile-function compounds.
4
106.
Diazo-Azo- or azoxy-compounds.
4
107.
Organic derivatives of hydrazine or of hydroxylamine.
4
108.
Organo-sulphur compounds.
4
109.
Ethylene Diamine Tetra Acetic Acid, Nitrille Tri-acetic acid
and their derivatives.
4
110.
Heterocyclic compounds with oxygen hetroatom(s) only.
4
111.
Heterocyclic compounds with nitrogen hetroatom(s) only.
4
112.
Page 90/138
----- PAGE 91 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
Nucleic acids and their salts, other heterocyclic compounds.
4
113.
Sulphonamides.
4
114.
Glycosides, natural or reproduced by synthesis and their
salts, ethers, esters and other derivatives.
4
115.
Vegetable alkaloids natural or reproduced by synthesis and
their salts, ethers, esters and other derivatives.
4
116.
Tanning extracts of vegetable origin, tannins and their salts,
ethers, esters and other derivatives, excluding catechu or
gambiar.
4
117.
Synthetic organic tanning substances, inorganic tanning
substances, tanning preparations, whether or not containing
natural excluding catechu or gambiar.
4
118.
Colouring matter of vegetable or animal origin (including
dyeing extracts but excluding animal black) excluding catechu or
gambiar.
4
119.
Synthetic organic colouring matter whether or not chemically
defined, preparations base on synthetic organic colouring matter,
excluding catechu or gambiar.
4
120.
Colour lakes and preparation based on colour lakes.
4
121.
Master Batches, other colouring matter including ultra marine
blue.
4
122.
Textile Finishing agents, Textile Printing Binder-PVC
Copolymer. Textile Non-woven binder-PVA copolymer. Lamination
emulsion-PVA copolymer. Packaging emulsion-PVa copolymer. Sticker
Emulsion-PVA copolymer-Binder for water based paint-PVA
copolymer.
4
123.
Prepared pigments and all their derivatives.
4
124.
Page 91/138
----- PAGE 92 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
Glass frit and other glass in the form of powder granules or
flakes.
4
125.
Prepared driers.
4
126.
Pigments (including metallic powders and flakes) dispersed in
non-aqueous media, in liquid or paste form, of a kind used in the
manufacture of paints (including enamels), stamping foils.
4
127.
Casein, Caseinates and other case in derivatives casein glues.
4
128.
Enzymes, prepared enzymes not elsewhere specified or included.
4
129.
Artificial graphite, colloidal or semi-colloidal graphite,
preparation based on graphite or other carbon in the form of
pastes.
4
130.
Activated Carbon, Activated natural mineral products, animal
black, including spend animal black.
4
131.
Residual lyes from manufacturing of wood pulp whether or not
concentrated, desugared or chemically treated, including lignin
sulphonate.
4
132.
Gums and turpentine oil.
4
133.
Rosin and resin acids and derivatives, thereof, resin spirit
and rosin oils, run gums.
4
134.
Wood tar, wood tar oils wood creosote, wood naptha vegetable
pitch brewere pitch and similar preparation based on resin acid.
4
135.
Finishing agents, dye carriers to accelerate the dyeing or
fixing of dye-stuffs and other products & preparations of a
kind used in the textile, papers, leather or like industries.
4
136.
Prepared rubber accelerators, compound plasticisers for rubber
or plastics, not elsewhere specified or included antioxiding
preparations and other compounds stabilizers for rubber and for
Page 92/138
----- PAGE 93 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
plastics.
4
137.
Reducers and blanket wash/roller wash used in the printing
industry.
4
138.
Reaction initiators, reaction accelerators and catalytic
preparations not elsewhere specified or included.
4
139.
Mixed alkybenzenes & mixed alkynaphthalenes.
4
140.
Chemical elements doped for use in electronics in the form of
discs, wafers or similar forms chemical compounds dope for use in
electronics.
4
141.
Industrial monocarboxylic fatty acids, acid oils from refining
industrial fatty alcohols.
4
142.
Retarders used in the printing industry.
4
143.
LLDPE/LDPE
4
144.
HDPE.
4
145.
Polymers of propylene in primary forms.
4
146.
PVC (Poly Vinyal Chloride).
4
147.
Acrylic polymers in primary forms.
4
148.
Polyacetals, other poly ethers and epoxide resin, in primary
forms, polycarbonates, alkyd resins, polyalkylesters &
polyesters.
4
149.
Polyethylene Terephthalate chips.
4
150.
Polymides in primary forms.
4
Page 93/138
----- PAGE 94 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
151.
Amino-resins, polyphenylene exide, phenolic resins and
polyurethanes in primary forms.
4
152.
Silicons in primary forms.
4
153.
Petroleum resins, coumarone-indene resins, polyperpenes,
polysulphides, polysulphones.
4
154.
Cellulose and its chemical derivatives & cellulose ethers,
not else where specified in primary forms.
4
155.
Natural polymers (for example, alginic acid) and modified
natural polymers for example, hardened proteins, chemicals).
4
156.
Ion-exchangers based on polymers in primary forms.
4
157.
Self-adhesive plates, sheets, film, strip of plastics whether
or not in rolls.
4
158.
Thermocol.
4
159.
Flexible plain films
4
160.
Articles for packing of goods of plastics namely crates,
containers, carboy, bottles, jars, jerry cans, stoppers, lids,
caps, but not including insulated wares and such other items used
at the time of sale for the convenience of the customers
including carry bags.
4
161.
Natural rubber, balata gutta percha guayule, chicle and
similar natural gums, in primary forms or in plates, sheets or
strips.
4
162.
Synthetic rubber and factice derived from oils in primary
forms or in plates, sheets or strips, mixtures of any products.
4
163.
Reclaimed rubber, in primary forms or in plates, sheets or
strips.
Page 94/138
----- PAGE 95 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
4
164.
Compounded rubber, univalcanised, in primary forms or in
plates, sheets or strip, other than the forms and articles of
unvulcanised rubber.
4
165.
Mechanical wood pulp, chemical wood pulp, semi chemical wood
pulp & pulps of other fibrous el-lulosic materials.
4
166.
Cartons (including flatened or folded cartons), boxes
(including flattened or folded boxes), cases, bags, packing
container, of paper, paper board, whether in assembled or
unassembled conditions.
4
167.
Paper printed labels, paperboard printed labels.
4
168.
Paper self-adhesive tape and printed wrappers used for
packing.
4
169.
Partially orient yarn, polyester texturised yarn and waste
thereof.
4
170.
Polyester staple Fibre & Polyester Staple Fibre Fill.
4
171.
Polyester Staple Fibre waste.
4
172.
Sacks and bags, of a kind used for packing of goods of jute,
or of other textile base fibre.
4
173.
Carboys, bottles, jars, phials of glass, of a kind used for
the packing goods, stoppers, lids and other closures, of glass.
4
174.
Stoppers, caps and lids (including crown corks, screw caps and
pouring stoppers) capsules for bottles, threaded bungs, seals.)
4
175.
Ferro alloys.
4
176.
Zinc Oxide.
4
Page 95/138
----- PAGE 96 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
177.
Jute Yarn, Jute Cloth, Juta twine and Jute sheets.
4
178.
PP/HDPE Woven sacks, PP/HDPE Fabrics.
4
179.
Hessain cloth.
4
180.
Camphor.
4
181.
Woven Label Tapes.
4
182.
Empty cylinders of LPG.
4
183.
Natural Gas in Liquified or Gaseous state (except LPG, propane
and Butane).
4
184.
Synthetic flavoring essences.
4
185.
Naphtha.
4
186.
China Clay.
4
187.
Rubber Process Oil.
4
188.
Liquified Chlorine.
4
189.
Furnace Oil.
4
190.
Petrolieum Coke.
4
191.
Laterite.
4
192.
Silica Sand.
4
193.
Red Ocher.
Page 96/138
----- PAGE 97 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
4
194.
Felsphar.
4
195.
Chalk Powder.
4
196.
Hydrated Lime.
4
197.
Quartaz Powder.
4
198.
Sodium Fypo Chlorite.
4
199.
Carbon Tapping Electrode.
4
200.
Carbon catalyst.
4
201.
Sodium Hydroxide.
4
202.
Acetylene Gas.
4
203.
Non-Edible Oil (other than hair oils).
4
204.
Soapstone.
4
205.
Residual Furance Oil.
4
206.
Hydro Sulphite of Soda.
4
207.
Sodium Bicarbonate.
4
208.
Dyes & Dyestuffs excluding paints, enamels, cement based
water colours, dry distempers, oil based distempers, emulsion
paints including acrylic and plastic emulsion paints, lacquers
including cellulose lacquers, varnishes, all types of synthetic
adhesives, all types of polish, bale oil, white, double boiled
linseed oil, thinners, all kind of paint removers and all kinds
of wall papers.
Page 97/138
----- PAGE 98 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
4
209.
Gwar seed, gwar refined dal or split, gwar gum powder, Dencha
and Punwad.
4
210.
Threads including fir resistance thread.
4
211.
Wooden Heel.
4
212.
Buttons, Elastics, Zip, Zip Fastners, foam, Nylone Tape and
Lace.
4
213.
Antisatic Insole.
4
214.
Barely Malt.
4
215.
P.U. Foam sheet.
4
216.
Marble and granite Block and laffer.
4
217.
Rough Kota Stone of thickness ore than 55 mm.
4
218.
Stainless steel ingots, billets, blooms, flats, flat bars,
patta and circles.
4
219.
Rectified spirit.
4
220.
Rough sand stone blocks of dimensions not less than 1.5?x
1.5?x 1?.
4
221.
Abrasives and emery stone.
4
222.
Copper wire including super enameled copper wire, submersible
copper winding wire and double cotton covered copper wire.
4
223.
Transformer Tank and accessories thereof.
4
Page 98/138
----- PAGE 99 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
224.
Core Clamp, Clamping Ring and Aluminum Member.
4
225.
Insulating materials, that is to say, insulating varnish,
insulating tape, polyester film, leatherized paper, empire and
fibre glass cloth and empire and fibre glass sleeve.
4
226.
H.V./L.V. bushing (insulator).
4
227..
H.V./L.V. metal parts of brass and aluminum.
4
228.
Transformer oil.
4
229.
Electrical grade insulating paper/craft paper/press board.
4
230.
Double paper covered (BPC) and super enameled (SEM) wire and
strips of copper and aluminum.
4
231.
C.R.G.O./electrical Lamination.
4
232.
Cork sheet.
4
233.
Sleevings.
4
234.
H.V./L.V. coil of copper and aluminum.
4
235.
Non-feerous metal sheet (including foil), circle, wires,
strips and scrap.
4
236.
Nickel and copper cathode.
4
237.
Copper tubes for refrigeration and cooling plants.
4
238.
Coconut shell coke and met coke.
4
239.
Silica gel.
Page 99/138
----- PAGE 100 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
4
240.
Welding rod.
4
241.
Isabgol.
4
242.
Battery lead, lead ash and separator for storage.
4
243.
Micro-cellular sheets, PVC sole, leather board, latex rubber
for footwear.
4
244.
Not found
245.
Not found
246.
Not found
247.
Investment powder.
4
248.
Acetone.
4
249.
MIBK (Methyl Iso Butyl Ketone).
4
250.
MEK (Methyl Ethyl Ketone).
4
251.
NBA (Normal Butyl Alcohol).
4
252.
Ethyl Acetate.
4
253.
Butyl Acetate.
4
254.
IPA (Iso Propyl Alcohol).
4
255.
DAA (Di Acetone Alcohol).
4
256.
Pthalic Anhydride.
4
257.
Page 100/138
----- PAGE 101 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
Maleic Anhydride.
4
258.
Pentaerythritol.
4
259.
Hexamine.
4
260.
CNSI. RESIN (Cashew Nut Shell Liquid Resin).
4
261.
Industrial Lacquers.
4
262.
Perforated sheets.
4
263.
Latex Foam.
4
264.
Saw dust.
4
265.
Tumba seed, Ratanjyot, Nimoli and Karanj.
4
266.
Plaster of Paris.
4
267.
Not found.
268.
Chemicals not specified elsewhere in this Schedule or in any
other Schedule.
4
269.
Gelatin and gelatin capsule.
4
270.
Toluene, O-xylene and Mix-sylene.
4
271.
Papad-khar
4
V
(See section 4)
Goods Taxable at 12.5%
S. No.
Description of Goods
Rate of Tax %
Conditions if any
Page 101/138
----- PAGE 102 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
1
2
3
4
1.
Goods not covered in any other Schedule under
the Act or under any notification issued under section 4 of the
Act.
12.5
VI
[See section 4]
Goods Taxable at Special Rates
S. No.
Description of Goods
Rate of Tax %
Conditions if any
1
2
3
4
1.
Foreign liquor.
20
2.
High and Light Speed Diesel Oil.
20
3.
Molasses
20
4.
Aviation spirit.
28
5.
Petrol
28
6.
Bhang
50
7.
Opium.
50
Notifications Under
Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
(Act
No. 4 of 2003
)
Section 1
[Notification No. F. 12(63) FD/Tax/2005-154, dated 31-3-2006, Published in Rajasthan Gazette, Extraordinary, Part
IV-C(II), dated 31-3-2006, page 555(1).]
S.O. 454. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of section 1 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act,
2003 (Rajasthan Act
Page 102/138
----- PAGE 103 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
No. 4 of 2003
), the State Government hereby appoints 1-4-2006, as the date on which the said Act shall come into force.
Section 4(1)
[Notification No. F.12(63)FD/Tax/2005-172, dated 31-3-2006, Published in Rajasthan Gazette, Extraordinary, Part
IV-C(II), dated 31-3-2006, page 555(33).]
S.O. 472. - In pursuance of rule 11 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Rules, 2006, read with sub-section (1) of section
4 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003, the State Government hereby directs that tax under section 4 of the Act,
in respect of sales of Aviation Spirit, High and Light Speed Diesel Oil, and Petrol, shall be payable at the first point in the
series of sales by a registered dealer in the State of Rajasthan subject to the following conditions, namely.-
(i)
that the selling dealer shall issue invoice and not VAT invoice; and
(ii)
that against invoice and not against VAT invoice.
This shall have effect from April 1,2006
[Notification No. F.12(63)FD/Tax/2005-174, dated 31-3-2006, Published in Rajasthan Gazette, Extraordinary, Part
IV-C(II), dated 31-3-2006, page 555(34).]
S.O. 473. - In pursuance of rule 11 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Rules, 2006, read with sub-section (1) of section
4 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003, the State Government hereby directs that tax under section 4 of the Act,
on the sales of Aviation Spirit, High and Light Speed Diesel Oil, and Petrol, shall be payable by the dealers registered in
the name and style as M/s Indian Oil Corporation Ltd., M/s Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd., M/s Hindustan Petroleum
Corporation Ltd. and M/s Indo-Burma Petroleum Corporation Ltd., at the point when such dealers make sales of the said
goods to a dealer other than the aforesaid dealers for the first time in the State of Rajasthan.
This shall have effect from April 1, 2006.
[Notification No. F. 12(63) FD/Tax/2005-6, dated 11-4-2006, Published in Rajasthan Gazette, Extraordinary, Part 1V-C,
dated 13-4-2006, page 15(7).]
S.O. 14. - In pursuance of rule 11 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Rules, 2006, read with sub-section (1) of section 4
of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003 (Act
No. 4 of 2003
), the State Government hereby make the following amendments in this Department's notification No. F. 12(63)
FD/Tax/2005-172, dated 31-03-2006 (as amended from time to time); namely:-
In the said notification for the existing expression "and Petrol," the expression ", Petrol, Kerosene (sold through Public
Distribution System in the State)," shall be substituted.
Section 4(3)
[Notification No. F. 12(63)FD/TAX/2005-159, dated 31-3-2006, Published in Rajasthan Gazette, Extraordinary, Part
IV-C(II), dated 31-3-2006, page 555(21).]
S.O. 459. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of section 4 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act,
2003 (Rajasthan Act
No. 4 of 2003
), the State Government hereby notifies, that the tax payable by the dealer who has exercised option for payment of tax
under sub-section (2) of section 3 of the Act, shall be levied at the rate of 1 %.
This shall have effect from April 1, 2006.
[Notification No. F. 12(63) FD/Tax/2005-2, dated 11-4-2006, Published in Rajasthan Gazette, Extraordinary, Part
IV-C(II), dated 13-4-2006, page 15(1).]
S.O. 10. -In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of Section 4 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act,
2003 (Rajasthan Act
No. 4 of 2003
), and in supersession of this Department's Notification No. 12(63) FD/Tax/2005-159, dated 31-03-2006, the State
Government hereby notifies that the tax payable by the dealer who has exercised option for payment of tax under
sub-section (2) of section 3 of the Act, shall be levied at the rates of 0.25%.
Section 4(7)
[Notification No. F. 12(63)FD/Tax/2005-175, dated 31-3-2006, Published in Rajasthan Gazette, Extraordinary, Part
Page 103/138
----- PAGE 104 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
IV-C(II), dated 31-3-2006, page 555(35).]
S.O.475. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (7) of section 4 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act,
2003 (Rajasthan Act
No. 4 of 2003
), the State Government, hereby notifies, drugs and medicines as mentioned at S.No. 43 of Schedule IV appended to
the Act, to be the goods for which option can be exercised by a registered dealer who imports in to or manufacturers
these goods in the State, to pay tax on maximum retail price (MRP) of such goods.
This shall have effect from April 1, 2006.
[Notification No. F. 12(63) FD/Tax/2005-35, dated 5-5-2006, Published in Rajasthan Gazette, Extraordinary, Part
IV-C(H), dated 6-5-2006, page 61(2).]
S.O. 83. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (7) of section 4 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act,
2003 (Rajasthan Act
No. 4 of 2003
), the State Government being of the opinion that it is expedient in the public interest so to do, hereby makes the
following amendment in this Department Notification No. F. 12 (63) FD/Tax/2005-175, dated 31-3-2006; namely:-
In the said notification, for the existing expression "drugs and medicines as mentioned at S. No. 43 of Schedule-IV
appended to the Act.", the expression "drugs and medicines as mentioned at S.No. 43 of Schedule-IV appended to the
Act, Dietary supplements including nutritional supplements, Protein Supplements, health food, tooth pastes, soaps and
creams as manufactured by pharmaceutical industries under license issued under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940
(Act No. 23 of 1940)." shall be substituted.
[Notification No. F. 12(63) FD/Tax/2005-57, dated 1-6-2006, Published in Rajasthan Gazette, Extraordinary, Part
IV-C(II), dated 1-6-2006, page 87(5).]
S.O. 122. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (7) of section 4 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act,
2003,(Rajasthan Act
No. 4 of 2003
), the State Government being of the opinion that it is expedient in the public interest so to do, hereby makes the
following amendment in this department's notification No. F. 12 (63) FD/Tax/2005-175, dated March 31, 2006 (as
amended from time to time); namely:-
In the said notification, for the existing expression "drugs and medicines as mentioned at S. No. 43 of schedule-IV
appended to the Act, Dietry supplements including nutritional supplements, protein supplements, health food, tooth
paste, soaps and creams as manufactured by pharmaceutical industries under license issued under the Drugs and
Cosmetics Act, 1940 (Act No. 23 of 1940)" the expression "(1) drugs and medicines as mentioned at S. No. 43 of
schedule-IV appended to the Act, (2) Dietary supplements including nutritional supplements, protein supplements,
health food, and (3) tooth pastes, soaps and creams as manufactured by pharmaceutical industries under license issued
under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940 (Act No. 23 of 1940)," shall be substituted.
Section 5
[Notification No.FI2(28)FD/Tax/2007/145, dated 9-3-2007, Published in Rajasthan Rajpatra, Part 4(Ga), dated 9-3-2007,
page 444].
S.O. 381. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 5 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003 (Act
No. 4 of 2003
) the State Government being of the opinion that it is expedient in the public interest so to do, hereby notifies the
"Composition Scheme for registered dealers having retail outlets of petroleum Companies" (hereinafter referred to as
'the scheme') and permits such dealers to opt for composition amount in lieu of their tax liability in respect of their sales
of lubricant, yellow cloth and fan belt, within the State on payment of composition amount and subject to the conditions
as specified hereunder, namely:-
1. Date of Commencement. - This Scheme shall be deemed to have come into force with effect from April 1, 2006.
2. Applicability. -
2.01
The Scheme shall be applicable to the registered dealer having retail outlet of a petroleum Company.
2.02
This Scheme shall be applicable only if the opting dealer makes purchases of taxable goods covered under the scheme
Page 104/138
----- PAGE 105 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
from a registered dealer of the State.
3. Composition Amount. -
The composition amount to be paid per annum by the dealer in lieu of tax shall be Rs. 100/-for every Rs. 10,000/- or part
thereof, of the turnover of goods covered under the Scheme in the relevant year.
4. Manner of payment of composition amount. -
4.01
The composition amount shall be paid in four quarterly installments. The installment for each quarter shall be paid by 7th
day of the immediately succeeding month of the relevant quarter i.e. by July 7th, October 7th , January 7th and April 7th
for the 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th quarter respectively. The difference if any, as per the actual turnover of the whole of the
year shall be calculated and the balance of the composition amount, if any, shall be deposited by April 30th of the
immediately succeeding year.
4.02
The installments of the composition amount already fallen due for the year 2006-07, and the tax collected or charged
prior to the issuance of the scheme shall be deposited within 30 days of the publication of this notification in the Official
Gazette. The remaining quarterly installments shall be paid by the dealer in accordance with the scheme.
4.03
Where a dealer commences new business during the financial year, the installments of the composition amount already
fallen due shall be deposited and proof thereof shall be enclosed along with the application for exercising option under
the Scheme.
5. Composition Certificate. -
5.01
Registered dealer opting for this Scheme shall submit an application on a plain paper to his assessing authority within
thirty days of the commencement of the year or within thirty days of the issuance of registration certificate, whichever is
later, stating therein the name, address, status, registration numbers, gross annual turnover of the goods covered under
the scheme and tax paid in immediately preceding year, if any, in respect of them, and such other information as may be
relevant for the implementation of this scheme. Such application shall be submitted along with the proof of deposit of
composition amount fallen due on the date of submitting the application. However, for the year, 2006r2007, such
application may be submitted within thirty days from the date of publication of this notification.
5.02
On receipt of the application, the assessing authority shall issue the composition certificate in Form PS-2006 appended
to this notification. The composition certificate shall initially be valid for one year.
5.03
Where a dealer has failed to opt for the scheme within the stipulated period, he shall be allowed to avail the benefits of
the scheme on fulfillment of the following conditions, namely:-
(i)
he shall deposit the whole of the amount which has become due under the Scheme along with the interest thereon at
the rate notified under the said Act;
(ii)
he shall also deposit a late fee, amounting to twenty five percent of the due composition amount required to be
deposited under the Scheme where he exercises this option within three months of the due date, thereafter he shall not
be eligible for the benefits under the scheme; and
(iii)
he shall deposit the complete amount of tax charged or collected, if any, to the State Government before making
application under the scheme.
5.04
Where a dealer has failed to deposit the composition amount in the period specified under the scheme, he shall be
allowed to continue to avail the benefits of the scheme on fulfillment of the following conditions, namely:-
(i)
he shall deposit the whole of the amount which has become due under the scheme along with the interest thereon at the
rate notified under the said Act; and
(ii)
Page 105/138
----- PAGE 106 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
he shall also deposit a late fee, amounting to twenty five percent of the due composition amount required to be
deposited under the scheme where he deposits the due installments within three months of due date, and this late fee
shall be fifty percent of due amount if he deposits the due installments after aforesaid period of three months but before
March 31 of the relevant financial year, and thereafter he shall not be eligible for the benefits under the scheme.
6. The composition certificate may be renewed annually by submitting an application to the assessing authority on plain
paper before thirty days of the expiry of the composition period. The composition certificate shall be enclosed with
application along with the details of the turnover and the deposit of composition amount in the immediately preceding
year.
7. The dealer shall file his annual turnover details of all kinds of goods covered under the scheme, along with the copy of
the challans in support of the payment of composition amount within sixty days of the close of the relevant year.
8.0
Conditions:
8.1
Save as provided in the scheme, the dealer opting for composition of tax under this scheme shall be subject to all the
provisions of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003 and rules made thereunder.
8.2
The dealer shall not charge or collect any tax from a purchaser on the sale of goods during the composition period,
however, tax charged or collected by the dealer before opting for the scheme shall have to be deposited forthwith and
the tax already deposited shall not be refunded.
8.3
The dealer shall not be entitled to claim any input tax credit or refund in respect of purchases made by him.
8.4
If any dealer voluntarily withdraws from the scheme during the year, he shall be required to deposit the whole of the
composition amount, if not already paid for the year forthwith.
8.5
A registered dealer who opts to pay composition amount under the scheme, the credit of input tax availed, if any, by him
in the goods in stock shall be reversed forthwith.
8.6
The dealer, who opts to pay composition amount under the scheme, shall not be entitled to claim input tax credit in
respect of the goods in stock on the date of exercise of such option.
8.7
The composition amount and any other levy under the scheme shall be recoverable as arrears of land revenue under
the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003.
8.8
Where during the composition period, the dealer violates any of the conditions of the scheme or aids or abets the
evasion of tax, the assessing authority, after affording reasonable opportunity of being heard, may cancel the
composition certificate. This will be without prejudice to the action, penal or otherwise, for which such dealer shall be
liable under the provisions of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003 and rules made there under.
8.9
The State Government may review the scheme at any time and may amend, any or all the provisions of the scheme, as
it may deem fit. On such amendment, the dealer shall pay the revised composition amount or any other levy,
accordingly.
8.10
The State Government may review the scheme and on being satisfied that it is not in the public interest to continue the
scheme, it may revoke the scheme forthwith or from such date as it may notify.
Form PS- 2006
Composition Certificate
"Composition Scheme for Retail Outlet of Petroleum Companies - 2006"
Book No.
Circle:
S.No.
Page 106/138
----- PAGE 107 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
Ward:
Under the "Composition Scheme for Retail Outlet of Petroleum Companies- 2006", I hereby permit M/s ..................
(address) ............... Registration No. (TIN).............to deposit composition amount in lieu of tax for the year ..........on the
sale of lubricants, yellow cloth and fan belts, in accordance with the provisions of the said Scheme.
The quarterly installments are to be paid in accordance with the Scheme.
This certificate shall be initially valid for one year subject to its further renewable or cancellation or the Scheme is
revoked.
Place:
Signature
Date:
Designation
This certificate is renewed for the year:
1............Amount..............
Signature of the Assessing Authority
2............Amount..............
Signature of the Assessing Authority
Section 6
[Notification No. F. 12(63) FD/Tax/2005-84, dated 11-9-2006, Published in Rajasthan Gazette, Extraordinary, Part
IV-C(II), dated 13-9-2006, page 175(1).]
S.O. 190. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 6 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act,
2003 (Rajasthan Act
No. 4 of 2003
), the State Government hereby provides that notwithstanding anything contained in any notification issued earlier under
section 4 of the said act, with immediate effect, the rate of tax payable, in respect of the goods specified in Column No. 2
of the lists-A and B appended hereto, shall be as shown against each in Column No. 3, thereof; namely:-
List - A
Tax payable on Weight basis
Item No.
Description of goods
Tax payable per ton
1
2
3
1.
Bajri including reta:-
(a)
Chambal, Banas, Mahi, Khari, Kharka
Rs. 18/-
(b)
Other local sources in exclusion of (a),-
(i)
Districts-Ajmer, Kota, Bundi, Jhalawar, Baran and Alwar.
Rs. 12/-
(ii)
Sirohi, Jalore, Pali, Barmer, Jodhpur and other districts.
Rs. 6/-
2.
Building Stone excluding all varieties of marble &
granite:-
(a)
District Dhoipur, karauli and Tehsil Bayana of Bharatpur
Page 107/138
----- PAGE 108 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
district.
Block: Rs. 180/-Rubble: Rs. 10/-
(b)
District Jodhpur.
Block: Rs. 40/-Rubble: Rs. 10/-
(c)
District Jaisalmer.
Block: Rs. 60/-Rubble: Rs. 10/-
(d)
Districts Bhilwara, Kota, Bundi, Chit-torgarh and Jhalawar.
Block: Rs. 90/-Rubble: Rs. 10/-
(e)
District Baran
Rubble: Rs. 10/-
(f)
Districts Jaipur, Dausa, Swai Mad-hopur, Sikar and Jhunjhunu.
Block Rs. 12/-
(g)
Other districts excluding tehsil Bayana of Bharatpur
District.
Block: Rs. 20/-Rubble: Rs. 8/-
3.
Farshi/Flooring stone excluding (i) polished stone and
(ii) all varieties of marble and granite:-
(a)
Districts Chittorgarh excluding Tehsil Nimbahera, Bhilwara,
Bundi, Kota and Jhalawar.
Rs. 90/-
(b)
Districts Karauli, Dhoipur.
Rs. 70/-
(c)
Tehsil Nimbahera of District Chittorgarh
Rs. 50/-
(d)
Other than the above districts.
Rs. 40/-
4.
Patti/roof slabs, Aslet:-
(a)
Districts Kota, Bhilwara, Chittorgarh Excluding Tehsil
Nimbahera, Bundi, Jhalawar.
Rs. 90/-
(b)
Tehsil Nimbahera of District Chittorgarh.
Rs. 50/-
(c)
District Jodhpur - Aslet.
Rs. 95/-
(d)
Districts Alwar, Dhoipur and Karauli.
Page 108/138
----- PAGE 109 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
Rs. 70/-
5.
(e)
Other than the above districts.
Rs. 42/-
6.
Ballast including gitti and kankari.
Rs. 12.50/-
7.
Morram.
Rs. 8/-
List - A
Tax payable on Weight basis
Item No.
Description of goods
Tax payable per thousand unit
1.
Bricks
Rs. 50/-
Section 8(2)
[Notification No. F. 12(63) FD/Tax/2005-54, dated 1-6-2006, Published in Rajasthan Gazette, Extraordinary, Part
IV-C(II), dated 1-6-2006, page 87(1).]
S.O. 119. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) of section 8 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act,
2003 (Rajasthan Act
No. 4 of 2003
), the State Government being of the opinion that it is expedient in the public interest so to do, hereby makes the
following further amendments in SCHEDULE-I appended to the said Act; namely:-
1. In column No. 2 of S. No. 20, for the existing expression "chapadi and glass chattons." the expression "chapadi, bairja
and glass chattons." shall be substituted;
2. In column No. 2 of S. No. 54, for the existing expression "pooja ki glianti, shankh, roli and moli." the expression "pooja
ki ghanti, pooja ka chopda, shankh, roli and moli." shall be substituted;
3. For the existing entries in column No. 2 of S. No. 58, the following shall be substituted, namely.-
"Rubber/plastic/rexine footwear having maximum retail price less than Rs. 200/- per pair provided that the MRP is
indelibly marked or embossed on the footwear itself and Deshi Jootiyan."
4. After the existing S. No. 60 and before S. No. 61, the following new S. No. and entries thereto shall be inserted;
namely:-
"60A.
asbestos cement sheets and bricks having contents of fly ash
25% or more by weight.
Subject to the condition of entry in Registration Certificate
of the selling dealer"
5. After the existing S. No. 72, the following new S.No. and entries thereto shall be added in column No. 1, 2 and 3
respectively:-
"73.
Bura and mishri."
Section 8(3)
[Notification No. F. 12(63) FD/Tax/2005-15, dated 18-4-2006, Published in Rajasthan Gazette, Extraordinary, Part
IV-C(II), dated 19-4-2006, page 29(2).]
S.O. 43. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of Section 8 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act,
2003 (Rajasthan Act
No. 4 of 2003
Page 109/138
----- PAGE 110 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
), the State Government being of the opinion that it is expedient in the public interest so to do, hereby that it is expedient
in the public interest so to do, hereby makes the following amendments in this department's notification No. F. 12(63)
FD/Tax/2005-12, dated 15-4-2006, namely:-
In the said notification,-
1. In condition No. 1 for the existing expression "in excess of 25%" appearing after the expression "outside State of
Rajasthan" and before the expression "of the total quantity of HSD" shall be substituted by the expression "in excess of
60%"; and
2. After the existing condition No. 2 and before the condition No. 3, the following new condition 2(a) shall be inserted,
namely. -
"2(a). This notification shall remain in force upto 31-3-2007."
[Notification No. F. 12(63) FD/Tax/2005-23, dated 25-4-2006, Published in Rajasthan Gazette, Extraordinary, Part
IV-C(II), dated 28-4-2006, page 43(4)]
S.O. 58. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of section 8 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act,
2003 (Rajasthan Act
No. 4 of 2003
), the State Government being of the opinion that it is expedient in the public interest so to do, hereby exempts from tax
retrospectively with effect from 01-04-2006, the sale of wheat by the Food Corporation of India to the State Government
under the scheme of SGRY (Special Component), in the State of Rajasthan, subject to the following conditions, namely:-
(1)
that such exemption of the Food Corporation of India shall be available upto 31-03-2007; and
(2)
that the Food Corporation of India obtains a declaration in the form appended hereto from the concerned State
Government Department and furnishes it to the Assessing Authority.
Form
S.No...........
Name of the Department............
Date of issue.............................
To
The Senior Regional Manager,
Food Corporation of India, Jaipur.
Certified that the ........... Wheat ordered for in this office order No........ dated ......... and supplied by you as per
voucher/challan No. .................... dated............for an amount of Rs has been received by this Department under the
SGRY (Special Component).
Signature.................
Designation...............
Seal of the Department
Name of the Department........
[Notification No. F. 12(63) FD/Tax/2005-27, dated 28-4-2006, Published in Rajasthan Gazette, Extraordinary, Part
4-C(II), dated 29-4-2006, page 47(2).]
S.O. 65. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of Section 8 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act,
2003 (Rajasthan Act
No. 4 of 2003
), the State Government being of the opinion that it is expedient in the public interest so to do hereby exempts from tax,
with effect from 01-04-2006, the sale to or purchase by Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Ltd., Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut
Prasaran Ltd., Ajmer Vidyut Vitaran Ltd., Jaipur Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Ltd. and Jodhpur Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Ltd. for
exclusive use in the generation transmission or distribution of electric power to the extent to which the rate of tax
exceeds 4% on the following conditions, namely:-
1. that the tax collected on such sales to the Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Ltd., Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Prasaran
Ltd., Ajmer Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Ltd., Jaipur Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Ltd. and Jodhpur Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Ltd., if any,
shall be paid to the State Government;
2. that the tax already paid on such purchase by Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Ltd., Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Prasaran
Page 110/138
----- PAGE 111 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
Ltd., Ajmer Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Ltd., Jaipur Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Ltd. and Jodhpur Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Ltd., if any,
shall not be refunded; and
3. that the officer, duly authorized to make such purchase on behalf of any of these purchasing companies, furnishes to
the selling dealer, a certificate in the form appended hereto.
Certificate
I ............. (name) ..........  (designation) ........ (name of the company)......... do certify that the goods purchased from
Sri/M/s......... having registration No. (TIN) ........... amounting to Rs............ (in words also) ......... vide Vat invoice
No............. dated ......... have been purchased by M/s ......... (name of the purchasing company) for the purpose of
exclusive use by it in the generation, transmission or distribution of electric power.
(Seal of the duly authorized officer of the company).
Place..............
Signature................
Date...............
Designation of the authorized
Officer of the company
[Notification No. F. 12(63) FD/Tax/2005-25, dated 27-4-2006, Published in Rajasthan Gazette, Extraordinary, Part
IV-C(II), dated 29-4-2006, page 49.]
S.O. 68. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of section 8 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act,
2003 (Rajasthan Act
No. 4 of 2003
), the State Government being of the opinion that it is expedient in the public interest so to do, hereby makes the
following amendments in this department's Notification No. F. 12 (63) FD/Tax/2005-12, dated 15-4-06 (as amended from
time to time); namely:-
In the said notification,-
1. In condition No. 2(a), the existing expression "This notification shall remain in force up to 31-3-2007", shall be
substituted by the expression "This notification shall be deemed to have come into force with effect from 01-04-2006 and
shall remain in force upto 31-3-2007"; and
2. After the existing condition No. 2(a) and before the condition No. 3, the following new conditions 2(b) and 2(c) shall be
inserted, namely.-
"2(b) That the tax collected on such sales to Indian Railways, if any, shall be paid to the State Government;
2.
(c)
That the tax already paid on such purchase by Indian Railways, if any, shall not be refunded; and"
[Notification No. F. 12(63) FD/Tax/2005-32, dated 29-4-2006, Published in Rajasthan Gazette, Extraordinary, Part
IV-C(II), dated 1-5-2006, page 51(2).]
S.O. 70. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of section 8 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act,
2003 (Act
No. 4 of 2003
), the State Government being of the opinion that it is expedient in the public interest so to do, hereby exempts from
payment of tax the dealers who were eligible and were granted benefits of exemption for specified period or for specified
amount linked with investment under the notifications (as amended from time to time) enumerated in the Table given
below, subject to the following conditions, namely:-
(1)
the benefits of exemption shall be limited to the unexpired period of eligibility and the balance cumulative quantum of tax
as on April 1, 2006.
(2)
the dealer shall be eligible to charge and collect tax in excess of the percentage of exemption from tax liability granted to
him.
(3)
the eligibility period and the cumulative quantum of tax of the unit shall remain unchanged.
(4)
Page 111/138
----- PAGE 112 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
the dealer shall be subject to all the provisions of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003 and Rules made
thereunder, and the terms and conditions contained in this notification.
(5)
all other conditions of the relevant notifications shall apply mutatis mutandis.
Table
S. No.
Notification number and date
1
2
1.
No. F. 4(35) FD/Gr-IV/87, dated 23-5-1987.
2.
No. F. 4(35) FD/Gr-IV/87-38, dated 6-7-1989.
3.
No. F. 14(8) FD/Tax Div./98 (S.O. 11), dated 7-4-1998.
5.
No. F. 4(55) FD/Tax Div./95-258, dated 24-1-2000.
6.
No. F. 4(68) FD/Tax Div./99-270, dated 24-1 -2000.
7.
No. F. 4(10) FD/Tax Div./02-138, dated 22-2-2002.
8.
No. F. 4(10) FD/Tax Div./2002-Pt.-17, dated 16-4-2002
9.
No. F. 4(10) FD/Tax Div./02-196, dated 21-02-2003
10.
No. F. 4(6) FD/Tax Div./03-Pt-30, dated 28-4-2003.
11.
No. F. 4(6) FD/Tax Div./2003-Pt-47, dated 29-5-2003.
[Notification No. F. 12(63) FD/Tax/2005-52, dated 18-5-2006, Published in Rajasthan Gazette, Extraordinary, Part
IV-C(II), dated 19-5-2006, page 75.]
S.O. 112. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of section 8 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act,
2003 (Rajasthan Act
No. 4 of 2003
), the State Government being of the opinion that it is expedient in the public interest so to do, hereby makes the
following amendments in this departments notification No. F. 12 (63) FD/Tax/2005-11, dated 15-4-2006 (as amended
from time to time); namely:-
In the said notification, after the existing condition No. 2 and before the condition No. 3, the following new conditions
2(a), 2(b) and 2(c) shall be inserted, namely:-
"2(a) This notification shall be deemed to have come into force with effect from 01-04-06;
2.
(b)
That the tax collected on such sales to Rajasthan State Road Transport Corporation; if any, shall be paid to the State
Government; and
2.
(c)
That the tax already paid on such purchase by Rajasthan State Road Transport Corporation, if any, shall not be
refunded."
[Notification No. F. 12(63) FD/Tax/2005-59, dated 5-6-2006, Published in Rajasthan Gazette, Extraordinary, Part
IV-C(II), dated 8-6-2006, page 91.]
S.O. 125. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of section 8 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act,
Page 112/138
----- PAGE 113 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
2003 (Rajasthan Act
No. 4 of 2003
), the State Government being of the opinion that it is expedient in the public interest so to do, hereby makes the
following in this department's Notification No. F. 12(63) FD/ Tax/2005-7, dated 13-4-06; namely:-
In the said notifications, for the existing condition No. 5, the following shall be substituted:-
"(5) that the sale price of goods shall not exceed rupees one thousand per item where such goods are not purchased
against VAT invoice from a dealer registered under the Act;"
This notification shall be deemed to have come into force with effect from 1-4-06.
[Notification No. F. 12(63) FD/Tax/2005-86, dated 11-9-2006, Published in Rajasthan Gazette, Extraordinary, Part
IV-C(II), dated 13-9-2003, page 175(4).]
S.O. 192. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of section 8 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act,
2003 (Rajasthan Act
No. 4 of 2003
), the State Government being of the opinion that it is expedient in the public interest so to do, hereby exempts, dealer or
person, from tax payable, under sub- section (1) of section 6, on sale or purchase of goods, mentioned in Column No. 2
of the list appended hereunder, carried or caused to be carried through vehicle or carrier, on the condition that such
dealer or person, pays exemption fee as specified in respect of such goods as mentioned against each in Column No. 3
thereof; namely:-
Exception Fee Per Truck
List
Item No.
Description of goods
Exemption Fee per Truck
1
2
3
1.
Bajri including reta:-
(a)
Chambal, Banas, Mahi, Khari, Kharka
Rs. 240/-
(b)
Other local sources in exclusion of (a) above,-
(i)
Districts-Ajmer, Kota, Bundi, Jhalawar, Baran and Alwar.
Rs. 120/-
(ii)
Districts-Sirohi, Jalore, Pali, Banner, Jodhpur and other
districts.
Rs. 60/-
2.
Building Stone excluding all varieties of marble &
granite:-
(a)
District Dhoipur, karauli and Tehsil Bayana of Bharatpur.
Block: Rs. 2000/-Rubble: Rs. 100/-
(b)
District Jodhpur.
Block: Rs. 400/-Rubble: Rs. 100/-
(c)
District Jaisalmer.
Page 113/138
----- PAGE 114 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
Block: Rs. 600/-Rubble: Rs. 100/-
(d)
Districts Bhilwara, Chhittorgarh, Kota, Bundi and Jhalawar.
Block: Rs. 1500/-Rubble: Rs. 140/-
(e)
District Baran
Rubble: Rs. 140/-
(f)
Districts Jaipur, Dausa, Swai Madhopur, Sikar and Jhunjhunu.
Block Rs. 140/-
(g)
Other then above districts excluding Tehsil Bayana of
Bharatpur District.
Block: Rs. 200/-Rubble: Rs. 100/-
3.
Farshi/Flooring stone excluding (i) polished stone and
(ii) all varieties of marble and granite:-
(a)
Districts Bhilwara, Chittorgarh excluding Tehsil Nimbahera,
Bundi, Kota and Jhalawar.
Rs. 1400/-
(b)
Districts Karauli, Dholpur.
Rs. 840/-
(c)
Tehsil Nimbahera of District Chittorgarh
Rs. 700/-
(d)
Other than the above districts.
Rs. 400/-
4.
Patti/roof slabs:-
(a)
Districts Bhilwara, Bundi, Chittorgarh excluding Tehsil
Nimbahera, Kota and Jhalawar.
Rs. 1400/-
(b)
Tehsil Nimbahera of District Chittorgarh.
Rs. 700/-
(c)
Other than the above districts.
Rs. 840/-
5.
Grit
Rs. 240/-
6.
Ballast including gitti and kankari.
Rs. 150/-
7.
Morram.
Rs. 100/-
Page 114/138
----- PAGE 115 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
Provided that:-
(i)
exemption fee in case of Truck/Trolla shall be double the exemption fee of Truck and half in case of tractor Trolly.
(ii)
in case of animal driven cart, the exemption fee payable shall be five percent of the amount of exemption fee payable for
a Truck.
[Notification No. F. 4(30) FD/Tax/97 Pt-88, dated 15-9-2006. Published in Rajasthan Gazette, Extraordinary, Part
IV-C(II), dated20-9-2006, page 185.]
S.O. 199. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of section 8 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act,
2003 (Rajasthan Act
No. 4 of 2003
), the State Government being of the opinion that it is expedient in the public interest so to do, hereby makes the
following amendments in this Department's notification No. F. 12 (63) FD/Tax/05-23, dated 25-4-2006, namely:-
In the said notification and Form appended to the notification the existing expression "(Special Component)" shall be
deleted.
This Amendment shall have effect from 1-4-2006.
[Notification No. F. 4(30) FD/Tax/97-110, dated 19-10-2006, Published in Rajasthan Gazette, Extraordinary, Part
IV-C(II), dated 20-10-2006, page 213.]
S.O. 227. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of section 8 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act,
2003 (Act
No. 4 of 2003
), the State Government being of the opinion of that it is expedient in the public interest so to do, hereby partially
exempts the tax payable under the Act on the sales of paddy by Food Corporation of India on the following condition;
namely:-
(1)
that the exemption shall be allowed only on the amount of bonus paid by Food Corporation of India to the farmers i.e.
Rs. 400/- per metric tonne;
(2)
that the exemption shall be limited to the extent of actual sales of paddy procured by Food Corporation of India from the
farmers during the period commencing from October 1, 2006 and ending on March 31, 2007 subject to a maximum of
15000 metric tonne;
(3)
that on such purchase Food circumstances of India has paid at bonus of rupees 400 per metric tonne over and above
minimum support price to the farmers during above referred period;
(4)
that the Food Corporation of India shall submit a declaration to the assessing authority as appended to this notification.
Declaration
To,
The Assessing Authority,
...........................
Certified that the paddy sold to M/s .......... by bill No . ........  dated.......... has been purchased from the farmer in Kharif
marketing season falling between 01-10-06 to 31-3-07 and incentive bonus as declared by Government of India vide
letter No. 151(2) 2006-PY. I, dated 25/26th August 06 has been paid to the farmers.
Seal of the Department
Signature, Name & Designation of the issuing officer.
[Notification No.F12(28)FD/Tax/2007/139, dated 9-3-2007, Published in Rajasthan Rajpatra, Part 4(Ga), dated
9-3-2007, page 440].
S.O. 375. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of section 8 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act,
2003 (Rajasthan Act
No. 4 of 2003
), and in supersession of this Department's notification No. F. 12(63) FD / Tax f 2005-97 dated 11.10.2006, the State
Page 115/138
----- PAGE 116 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
Government being of the opinion that it is expedient in the public interest so to do, hereby exempts from payment of tax
the registered dealers dealing in used motor vehicle, to the extent and subject to the conditions mentioned hereunder,
namely:-
(1)
that tax shall be paid @4% on the amount of difference between purchase value and sale price of the used motor
vehicle;
(2)
that no input tax credit shall be claimed by the dealer in respect of purchase of such goods which are used in the used
motor vehicles; and
(3)
that such used motor vehicle was purchased initially, from the registered dealer of the State and is registered in the
State under the provisions of Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 (Central Act 59 of 1988) prior to its sale.
[Notification No.FI2(28)FD/Tax/2007/140, dated 9-3-2007, Published in Rajasthan Rajpatra, Part 4(Ga), dated 9-3-2007,
page 441].
S.O. 376. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of section 8 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act,
2003 (Rajasthan Act
No. 4 of 2003
), the State Government being of the opinion that it is expedient in the public interest so to do, hereby exempts from
payment of tax the handmade goods manufactured and sold by Self Help Groups, subject to the following conditions,
namely:-
(1)
that such Self Help Group shall be certified as such by the Women and Child Development Department, Government of
Rajasthan; and
(2)
that no input tax credit shall be claimed by such dealers in respect of purchase of raw materials used for manufacture of
aforesaid goods.
[Notification No.FI2(28)FD/Tax/2007/141, dated 9-3-2007, Published in Rajasthan Rajpatra, Part 4(Ga), dated 9-3-2007,
page 441].
S.O. 377. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of section 8 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act,
2003 (Rajasthan Act
No. 4 of 2003
), the State Government being of the opinion that it is expedient in the public interest so to do, hereby exempts from
payment of tax, the sale of asbestos cement sheets and bricks manufactured in the State having contents of fly ash
twenty five percent or more by weight, on the following conditions, namely:-
(i)
that the goods shall be entered in the registration certificate of the selling dealer;
(ii)
that the exemption shall be for such goods manufactured by the dealer who commenced commercial production in the
State by 31.12.2006; and
(iii)
that the exemption shall be available up to 23.01.2010.
[Notification No. F12(28)FD/Tax/2007/142, dated 9-3-2007, Published in Rajasthan Rajpatra, Part 4(Ga), dated
9-3-2007, page 442].
S.O. 378. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of section 8 oi the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act,
2003 (Rajasthan Act
No. 4 of 2003
), the State Government being of the opinion that it is expedient in the public interest so to do, hereby exempts from
payment of tax the sales of the products excluding soap, bricks, Kota-stone, marble and sand stone, manufactured by
an institution, co-operative societies and individuals registered under the said Act and also with the Khadi & Village
Industries Commission constituted under the Khadi & Village Industries Commission Act, 1956 or the Rajasthan Khadi &
Village Industries Board constituted under the Rajasthan Khadi & Village Industries Board Act, 1955 and in whose
Page 116/138
----- PAGE 117 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
favour certificate had been issued before April 1, 2006, by the authorities competent to do so, on the following
conditions:-
(1)
that such exemption shall be available only on their annual gross turnover (excluding turnover of the goods mentioned
above) of rupees thirty lacs for individuals and rupees one crores for others. Where the annual turnover exceeds these
limits, tax shall be levied on the turnover in excess of such limits;
(2)
that no input tax credit shall be claimed by such dealers in respect of purchase of raw materials used for manufacture of
goods exempted above;
(3)
that tax collected by the dealer up to the publication of this notification shall have to be deposited and if deposited, shall
not be refunded.
This notification shall be deemed to have come into force with effect from April 1, 2006 and shall remain in force up to
31.3.2008.
[Notification No.Fl2(28)FD/Tax/2007/143, dated 9-3-2007, Published in Rajasthan Rajpatra, Part 4(Ga), dated 9-3-2007,
page 443].
S.O. 379. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-Section (3) of section 8 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act,
2003 (Rajasthan Act
No. 4 of 2003
), the State Government being of the opinion that it is expedient in the public interest so to do, hereby makes the
following amendments in this Department's notification No. F. 12 (63) FD/Tax/2005-12, dated 15.04.2006 (as amended
from time to time), namely:-
In the said notification in condition no. 2(a), for the existing expression "up to 31.3.2007", the expression "up to
31.03.2008" shall be substituted.
Section 8(4)
[Notification No. F. 12(63) FD/Tax/2005-61, dated 9-6-2006, Published in Rajasthan Gazette, Extraordinary, Part
IV-C(II), dated 17-6-2006, page 95(1).]
S.O. 128. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of section 8 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act,
2003 (Rajasthan Act
No. 4 of 2003
), the State Government being of the opinion that it is expedient in the public interest so to do hereby exempts from tax,
with effect from 1-4-2006, the sale to or purchase by a registered dealer, being a 100% Export Oriented Unit or an
industrial unit established in Special Economic Zone (SEZ), of goods specified in his certificate of registration, the
purpose of exclusive use in the manufacture of goods for sale in the course of export out of the territory of India on the
condition that the dealer shall furnish to the selling dealer, a certificate in the form appended hereto-
Certificate
Declaration of purchases of goods to be used in manufacturing of goods for export out of India
Name of Exporter..............
Address................
R.C. No. (TIN) ............
To,
Name of the Selling Dealer.........
Address.............
R.C. No. (TIN)..........
It is certified that the following goods supplied by you in pursuance of our purchase order No............ dated....... as per
your VAT Invoice listed below have been purchased by me/us, for the purpose of exclusive use in the manufacture of
goods for sale in the course of export out of the territory of India-
S.No.
No. and date of VAT Invoice
Name of Goods
Quantity of Goods
Page 117/138
----- PAGE 118 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
Amount
1
2
3
4
5
Declaration
I/We .........(Name).......... (Status)........ of M/s........ do hereby make the following declaration:-
1. That in case the goods manufactured from goods covered by this notification are re-imported into India after their
export, I/We shall inform the assessing authority about the fact of such re- import within a period of one month from the
date of re-import of the said goods into India and shall also pay the amount of the tax which would have been payable
on the purchase of such goods, along with interest.
2. That where the goods are not utilized by me/us for the declared purpose, 1/ We shall pay the amount of tax which
would have been leviable at full rate with interest as applicable under the Act.
The above declaration is true to the best of my/our knowledge and belief and nothing has been concealed.
Place:
Date:
Signature............
Name of person signing the certificate
Status of the person signing the certificate
Section 18(1)
[Notification No.FI2(28)FD/Tax/2007/147, dated 9-3-2007, Published in Rajasthan Rajpatra, Part 4(Ga), dated 9-3-2007,
page 448].
S.O. 383. - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (e) of sub-section (1) of section 18 of the Rajasthan Value
Added Act, 2003 (Rajasthan Act
No. 4 of 2003
), the State Government being of the opinion that it is expedient in the public interest so to do, hereby notifies High and
Light Speed Diesel Oil for the purpose of the said section.
Section 18(4)
[Notification No. F. I2(63)FD/TAX/2005-173, dated 31-3-2006, Published in Rajasthan Gazette, Extraordinary, Part
IV-C(II), dated 31-3-2006, page 555(34).]
S.O. 474. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of section 18 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act,
2003 (Rajasthan Act
No. 4 of 2003
), the State Government being of the opinion that it is expedient in the public interest so to do, hereby allows a dealer to
claim input tax credit, in excess of 4% of the tax paid in the State on the purchase of goods: -
(1)
which are consigned outside the State by way of stock/branch/depot transfer, or
(2)
which are used as raw material in the manufacture of goods and such manufactured goods are consigned outside the
State by way of stock/branch/depot transfer.
This shall have effect from April 1, 2006.
Section 20(1)
[Notification No.F. 12(63)FD/Tax/2005-157, dated 31-3-2006, Published in Rajasthan Gazette, Extraordinary, Part
IV-C(II), dated 31-3-2006, page 555(2).]
S.O. 457. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 20 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act,
2003 (Rajasthan Act No. 04 of 2003) and in supersession of all the notifications relating to payment of tax issued under
the repealed Act, the State Government hereby notifies that the class of dealers specified in Column No.l of the
Schedule appended hereto shall pay tax at such intervals as specified against each in Column No.2 thereof.
Schedule 8
Column No. 1
Page 118/138
----- PAGE 119 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
Column No. 2
a.
Dealers with annual tax liability of rupees
forty crores and above for the year preceding to the current
assessment year.
By the 15th day of the month in respect of tax
charged or collected from 1st day to 10th day of the month, for
the tax charged or collected from 11th day to 20th day of the
month up to 25th day of the month and for the tax charged or
collected from the 21st day of the month up to the end of the
month, shall be deposited within five days from the closing of
the month
b.
Dealers with annual tax liability of rupees
sixty lacs and above but less than rupees 40 crore for the year
preceding to the current assessment year.
By the 20th day of the month in respect of tax
charged or collected up to 15th day of the month and for the tax
charged or collected from the 16th day of the month up to the end
of the month, shall be deposited within seven days from closing
of the month.
c.
Dealers with annual tax liability of rupees
twenty thousand and above but below rupees sixty lacs for the
year preceding to current assessment year.
Monthly- within 14 days from the closing of each
month.
d.
Dealers dealing in all kinds of stones in all
their forms, whether used as building material or otherwise,
including marble, granite, etc.
Immediately on completion of transaction of sale
or purchase where such goods pass through check-post established
under section 76 of the Act.
e.
Dealers who have exercise option under
subsection (2) of section 3 of the Act.
Quarterly within 14 days from the closing of
each quarter.
f.
Dealers not covered by clauses (a), (b), (c),
(d) and (e) above.
Quarterly within 14 days from the closing of
each quarter.
This shall have effect from April 1, 2006.
Section 20(3)
[Notification F.12(63)FD/Tax/2005-171, dated 31-3-2006, Published in Rajasthan Gazette, Extraordinary, Part IV-C(II),
dated 31-3-2006, page 555(29).]
S.O. 471. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of section 20 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act,
2003 (Rajasthan Act
No. 4 of 2003
Page 119/138
----- PAGE 120 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
) and by section 9 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956, the State Government hereby notifies that the industrial units
mentioned in clause (1) shall be allowed to defer the payment of tax payable by them to the extent, in the manner and
for the period as specified hereunder:
(1)
An industrial unit availing the benefit of exemption from tax under Sales Tax Incentive Scheme for Industries, 1987 (RST
& CST) or Sales Tax New Incentive Scheme for Industries, 1989 (RST & CST) or the Rajasthan Sales Tax / the Central
Sales Tax Exemption Scheme for Industries, 1998 or any specific notification issued with reference to these schemes by
the Government from time to time (hereinafter referred to as Old Schemes), shall be eligible to avail the proportionate
benefit under this notification. In such cases the cumulative benefit of exemption of tax already availed of and the benefit
of deferment to be allowed under this notification shall not exceed the quantum of exemption sanctioned under the Old
Scheme(s).
(2)
The unit may opt for the deferment benefits under this notification by submitting an application to the Assessing
Authority in Form-A appended to this notification.
(3)
The Assessing Authority, after verification of the facts mentioned in the application and on being satisfied, shall issue
Certificate of Eligibility in Form-B appended to this notification.
(4)
An industrial unit shall be allowed to defer the payment of tax on sales made within the State or in the course of
inter-State trade or commerce, of the goods for which the Eligibility Certificate was issued under the Old Schemes.
(5)
The remaining eligible period under the Old Schemes as on the date of submission of the application completed in all
respects, shall be extended equal to the remaining eligible period subject to a maximum period of five years.
(6)
The percentage of deferment of tax in the extended period shall be equal to the extent of the percentage of deferment of
tax in the year immediately preceding such extension.
(7)
The unit shall pay the deferred tax of a quarter within a period of fifteen days of the end of the corresponding quarter
after seven years without interest.
(8)
In case any such payment of deferred tax is not made in time, the total outstanding deferred amount as on the date of
such default shall be recoverable immediately as arrears of land revenue along with interest from the first day of default
of such payment. In such cases the deferment benefit under this notification may be withdrawn with the prior approval of
Commissioner.
(9)
The industrial unit availing the benefit under this notification shall be eligible to issue Value Added Tax Invoice and to
claim Input Tax Credit subject to the provisions of section 18.
(10)
The deferred tax for each tax period shall be adjusted against the balance amount of Eligible Fixed Capital Investment.
(11)
Where Input Tax Credit exceeds Output Tax for a tax period, it shall be carried forward to the next tax period(s).
(12)
The tax deferred under this notification shall be deemed to be a loan.
(13)
The units covered under the old schemes would be entitled to benefit of this notification only when it opts for deferment
of tax both under the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003 and the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956.
(14)
All other terms and conditions of the Old Schemes not inconsistent with the provisions of the Rajasthan Value Added
Tax Act, 2003 or rules made there under and not covered under this notification, shall be applicable mutatis-mutandis to
the unit availing deferment benefit under this notification.
(15)
Page 120/138
----- PAGE 121 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
The Certificate of Eligibility is liable to be amended/revoked cancelled, if obtained on misrepresentation or concealment
of facts or by fraud or on breach of any of the terms and conditions, mentioned in the relevant notification.
(16)
This notification shall come into force on 1st day of April, 2006.
Form-A
Application for issue of Certificate of Eligibility for Deferment of tax
(Under The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003 and/or The Central Sales Tax Act, 1956)
To
..........................(Assessing Authority)
.........................
1.
Name of the applicant
2.
Name and style under which the applicant carries on business
3.
Status of the applicant Proprietor/Partner/ Director/Business
Manager/Other)
4.
Principal place of business
5.
Branches, if Any
6.
Registration No. (TIN)
7.
Name of the Goods manufactured
8.
Name of the Old Scheme / Notification
9.
Basis of eligibility:New Industrial Unit/ Expansion/
Diversification/Sick Industrial Unit/ Specific Notification (Copy
enclosed)
10.
Eligible Fixed Capital Investment (EFCI)
(a) Sanctioned amount:
(b) Amount availed up to the date of application:
(c) Balance amount as on date of application:
11.
Extent of the Percentage of exemption from total tax liability(Such as 100% in 1st Year, 90% in IInd Year or 75%.......
etc.)
12.
Period of Eligibility
As shown in Eligibility Certificate
Years......... DateFrom...... To......
Exhausted up to the date of Application
Years......... DateFrom...... To......
Balance as on date of application
Years......... DateFrom...... To......
13.
Eligible Period as per this notification Balance period
doubled subject to maximum increase of 5 years)
Years......... DateFrom...... To......
Page 121/138
----- PAGE 122 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
Declaration
1. I/We have been allowed benefit of exemption from tax under the scheme .........../Notification No..............
Dated............. issued by the Government of Rajasthan and an Eligibility Certificate No....... Dated................(self attested
copy enclosed) has been issued to me/us.
2. I/We declare that this Eligibility Certificate/eligibility has not been cancelled/withdrawn/suspended/revoked and is valid
on date of submission of the application.
3. I/We hereby opt for the deferment benefits under notification No................. dated................
4. I/We have not been penalized for the offence of avoidance or evasion of tax or no case of avoidance or evasion of tax
is pending against me/us as on date.
5. I/We hereby undertake that 1/We shall abide by the provisions of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003/ Central
Sales Tax Act, 1956 and the general/specific terms and conditions contained in the relevant notification (s) issued from
time to time in this behalf.
Signature of the Applicant(s)
Status
Verification
I/We verify that to the best of my/our knowledge and belief the information given above is true and correct and nothing
has been concealed.
Place:
Signature of the Applicant(s)
Date:
Status
Enclosures
1. Self Attested copy of Eligibility Certificate
2. Copy of Notification No. ........... dated...........
Acknowledgement
It is hereby acknowledged that M/s......... has submitted application for issue of certificate of eligibility for deferment of
tax under notification No. ........ dated.......... on........ (date).
A. The application is complete in all respects as required by the notification/
Or
B. The following information / documents have not been furnished-
1.
....................
2.
....................
Signature of the receiving Official
Place:
Name :
Date:
Designation:
Countersigned by the Assessing Authority with Seal
Name :
Form-B
Certificate of Eligibility
Deferment under the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003 and/or the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956
S. No.
Description
Particulars
1.
Book No.
2.
Serial No.
Page 122/138
----- PAGE 123 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
3.
Name of the applicant with status
4.
Name and style of the business with full address
5.
Registration No. (TIN)
6.
Principal place of business with full address including
details of branches, if any
7.
Basis for eligibility
(a) New Industrial Unit
(b) Expansion
(c) Diversification
(d) Sick Industrial Unit
(e) Specific Notification
No.         Date:
8.
Extent of eligibility
(a) Percentage of deferment of tax liability
?....................% of tax liability
(b) Quantum of deferment of sales tax in terms of EFCI
?....................% of EFCI
(c) Balance eligible amount
Rs. in figures......Rs. in words......
9.
Period
(a) Exemption under Old Scheme
Valid from...........to.........................
(b) Period exhausted up to the date of submission of
application
Years from...........to.........................
(c) Remaining period available under the Old Scheme
Years from...........to.........................
(d) Period of Extension
Years from...........to.........................
10.
Validity period of this Certificate as per clause 6 of the
notification.
Years from...........to.........................
Note. - This certificate is liable to amendment/revocation, if obtained by misrepresentation or concealment of facts or by
fraud or on breach of any of the terms and conditions, mentioned in the relevant notifications.
Signature
Place:
Name:
Date:
Designation:
Section 20(6)
[Notification No. No.F12(28)FD/Tax/2007/I48, dated 9-3-2007, Published in Rajasthan Rajpatra. Part 4(Ga), dated
9-3-2007, page 448].
S.O.384. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (6) of section 20 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act,
Page 123/138
----- PAGE 124 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
2003 (Act
No.4 of 2003
) read with section 9 of CST Act, 1956 (Central Act No.74 of 1956), the State Government hereby provides for the units
availing or having availed the benefit of deferment of tax under notification No. F. 12(63)FD/Tax/2005-171 dated
31.3.2006 (as amended from time to time) or Sales Tax Deferment Scheme for Industries, 1987 (RST & CST) or Sales
Tax New Deferment Scheme for Industries, 1989 (RST & CST) or the Rajasthan Sales Tax/Central Sales Tax
Deferment Scheme for Industries, 1998 or any notification issued with reference to deferment of tax by the State
Government from time to time, to deposit the amount of deferred tax before the stipulated due date of deposit as
specified in the above referred schemes/notifications, subject to the following conditions; namely:-
1. that the dealer holds a valid Eligibility Certificate or Certificate of Eligibility issued under the above referred
schemes/notifications;
2. that such dealer opts to discharge deferred tax liability in respect of any period by payment of such amount as shown
in the table appended to this notification;
3. that such dealer makes an application to this effect to the Commissioner, Commercial Taxes, along with the proof of
deposit of the amount;
4. that after the approval/acceptance of the application by the Commissioner, Commercial Taxes, the liability of the
dealer shall stands discharged; and
5. that for calculation of period in months as shown in the table appended to this notification, only complete months shall
be considered and any part thereof shall be ignored.
Table
Period in months between the date of actual
payment and the extended date of payment
Percentage of amount to be paid by the dealer
Period in months between the date of actual
payment and the extended date of payment
Percentage of amount to be paid by the dealer
1
99.25558
2
98.52217
3
97.79951
4
97.08738
5
96.38554
6
95.69378
7
95.01188
8
94.33962
9
93.67681
10
93.02326
11
92.37875
12
91.74312
13
Page 124/138
----- PAGE 125 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
91.06017
14
90.38731
15
89.72432
16
89.07099
17
88.4271
18
87.79246
19
87.16686
20
86.55011
21
85.94203
22
85.34244
23
84.75115
24
84.168
25
83.54144
26
82.92414
27
82.31589
28
81.7165
29
81.12578
30
80.54354
31
79.9696
32
79.40377
33
78.8459
34
78.29581
35
77.75335
36
77.21835
37
76.64352
38
76.07719
Page 125/138
----- PAGE 126 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
39
75.51917
40
74.96927
41
74.42732
42
73.89316
43
73.3666
44
72.8475
45
72.33569
46
71.83102
47
71.33335
48
70.84252
49
70.31516
50
69.79559
51
69.28364
52
68.77915
53
68.28195
54
67.79189
55
67.30881
56
66.83257
57
66.36302
58
65.90002
59
65.44344
60
64.99314
61
64.50932
62
64.03265
63
63.56297
64
Page 126/138
----- PAGE 127 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
63.10013
65
62.64399
66
62.19439
67
61.7512
68
61.31428
69
60.8835
70
60.45873
71
60.03985
72
59.62673
73
59.18286
74
58.74555
75
58.31465
76
57.89003
77
57.47155
78
57.05907
79
56.65248
80
56.25163
81
55 85642
82
55.46673
83
55.08243
84
54.70342
85
54.2962
86
53.895
87
53.49968
88
53.11012
89
52.72619
Page 127/138
----- PAGE 128 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
90
52.34777
91
51.97475
92
51.607
93
51.24443
94
50.88691
95
50.53434
96
50.18663
97
49.81303
98
49.44495
99
49.08228
100
48.72488
101
48.37265
102
48.02548
103
47.68326
104
47.34588
105
47.01323
106
46.68524
107
46.36178
108
46.04278
109
45.70003
110
45.36234
111
45.02961
112
44.70173
113
44.37858
114
44.06007
115
Page 128/138
----- PAGE 129 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
43.74611
116
43.43658
117
43.13141
118
42.83049
119
42.53374
120
42.24108
121
41.92663
122
41.61683
123
41.31157
124
41.01076
125
40.71429
126
40.42209
127
40.13404
128
39.85008
129
39.5701
130
39.29403
131
39.02178
132
38.75329
133
38.4648
134
38.18058
135
37.90052
136
37.62455
137
37.35256
138
37.08448
139
36.82022
140
36.5597
Page 129/138
----- PAGE 130 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
141
36.30284
142
36.04957
143
35.7998
144
35.55347
145
35.28881
146
35.02805
147
34.77112
148
34.51793
149
34.26841
150
34.02246
151
33.78002
152
33.54101
153
33.30536
154
33.073
153
32.84385
156
32.61786
157
32.37505
158
32.13583
159
31.90011
160
31.66783
161
31.43891
162
31.21327
163
30.99085
164
30.77157
165
30.55538
166
Page 130/138
----- PAGE 131 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
30.3422
167
30.13198
168
39.92465
169
29.70158
170
29.48241
171
29.26616
172
29.05305
173
28.84303
174
28.63603
175
28.43197
176
28.2308
177
28.03246
178
27.83688
179
27.64402
180
27.4538
181
27.24943
182
27.04808
183
26.84969
184
26.65418
185
26.4615
186
26.27158
187
26.08437
188
25.89982
189
25.71785
190
25.53842
191
25.36148
Page 131/138
----- PAGE 132 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
192
25.18698
193
24.99948
194
24.81475
195
24.63274
196
24.45338
197
24.2766
198
24.10237
199
23.93062
200
23.7613
201
23.59436
202
23.42975
203
23.26741
204
23.10732
205
22.9353
206
22.76583
207
22.59884
208
22.43429
209
22.27211
210
22.11227
211
21.9547
212
21.79936
213
21.6462
214
21.49518
215
21.34625
216
21.19937
217
Page 132/138
----- PAGE 133 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
21.04156
218
20.88608
219
20.73288
220
20.58192
221
20.43313
222
20.28648
223
20 14192
224
19.99941
225
19.8589
226
19.72035
227
19.58372
228
19.44897
229
19.30419
230
19.16154
231
19.02099
232
18.88249
233
18.74599
234
18.61145
235
18.47883
236
18.34808
237
18.21917
238
18.09206
239
17.96671
240
17.84309
Section 21
[Notification No. F. 12(63) FD/Tax/2005-74, dated 1-8-2006, Published in Rajasthan Gazette, Extraordinary, Part
IV-C(II), dated 4-8-2006, page 141.]
S.O. 166. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of section 21 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act,
Page 133/138
----- PAGE 134 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
2003 (Act
No. 4 of 2003
), the State Government being of the opinion that it is expedient in the public interest so to do, hereby extends the date
of submission of the first quarterly return (i.e. for the period ending 30-6-2006) for the year 2006-2007, up to 31 -8-2006.
Section 55
[Notification No. F. 4(52) FD/Tax/99-33, dated5-5-2006, Published in Rajasthan Gazette, Extraordinary, Part IV-C(II),
dated 6-5-2006, page 61(1).]
S.O. 82. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 55 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act,
2003 (Rajasthan Act
No. 4 of 2003
), the State Government hereby notifies the interest leviable under the said Act from dealer (s) specified in column 2 of
the list annexed hereto, shall be as shown against them in column 3 of the said list:-
List
S. No.
Class of person/persons
Rate of Interest
1
2
3
1.
Dealer(s) declared sick by BIFR and AAIFR under
the provisions of Sick Industrial Companies (Special provision)
Act, 1985 (Central Act No. 1 of 1986).
8%
2.
Dealer(s) not covered by S. No. 1.
12%
Section 76
[Notification No. F. 3(A)(10) Juris/Tax/CCT/97/777, dated 10-4-2006, Published in Rajasthan Gazette, Extraordinary,
Part IV-C(II), dated 13-4-2006, page 17.]
S.O. 15. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of section 76 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act,
2003 (Act
No. 4 of 2003
), I.P.S. Mehra, Commissioner, Commercial Taxes, Rajasthan, hereby authorize, all officers not below the rank of
Assistant Commercial Taxes Officer, to exercise the powers under section 76 of the Act, within their territorial
jurisdiction, as may be assigned to them from time to time.
Section 8(3)
[Noti. No. F. 12(75) FD/ Tax/ 2015-60, dt. 21.7.2015 - Rajasthan Gazette Exty., Pt. IV(C)(II), dt. 24.7.2015, pp. 121(2) to
121(3) {S.O. 97}] = 2016 RSCS/II/P. 135/H. 69
S.O. 97. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of section 8 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act,
2003 (Act
No. 4 of 2003
), the State Government being of the opinion that it is expedient in the public interest so to do, hereby with effect from
9.3.2010, exempts from tax payable by a dealer, to the exceeds five percent, on the sale of food cooked and served by
him in the heritage hotels categorized as 'Basic' by Government of India.
Section 6(1)
[Noti. No. F. 12(74) FD/ Tax/ 2014-79, dt. 14.8.2015 - Rajasthan Gazette Exty., Pt. IV(C)(II), dt. 14.8.2015, pp. 145 to
146, S.O. 124] = 2016 RSCS/II/P. 147/H. 83
S.O. 124. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 6 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act,
2003 (Act
No. 4 of 2003
Page 134/138
----- PAGE 135 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
) and in supersession of this Department's notification No. F. 12(74) FD/ Tax/ 2014-20, dt. 2.6.2015, the State
Government hereby, with immediate effect, fixes the amount of tax payable under the said Act, as mentioned in column
number 3 in respect of goods mentioned in column number 2 of the List given below, namely:-
S. No.
Item
Rate of tax
1
2
3
1
Other than filter cigarettes, cigarettes, of length not
exceeding 60mm
Rs. 575 per thousand
2
Other than filter cigarettes, of length exceeding 60 mm but
not exceeding 65 mm
Rs. 700 per thousand
3
Other than filter cigarettes, of length exceeding 65 mm but
not exceeding 70 mm
Rs. 1650 per thousand
4
Filter cigarettes of length (including the
length of filter, the length of filter being 11 mm or its actual
length whichever is more) not exceeding 60 mm
Rs. 575 per thousand
5
Filter cigarettes of length (including the
length of filter, the length of filter being 11 mm or its actual
length whichever is more) of length exceeding 60 mm but not
exceeding 65 mm
Rs. 725 per thousand
6
Filter cigarettes of length (including the
length of filter, the length of filter being 11 mm or its actual
length whichever is more) of length exceeding 65 mm but not
exceeding 70 mm
Rs. 1750 per thousand
7
Filter cigarettes of length (including the
length of filter, the length of filter being 11 mm or its actual
length whichever is more) of length exceeding 70 mm but not
exceeding 75 mm
Rs. 1250 per thousand
8
Filter cigarettes of length (including the
length of filter, the length of filter being 11 mm or its actual
length whichever is more) of length exceeding 75 mm but not
exceeding 85 mm
Rs. 2150 per thousand
9
Page 135/138
----- PAGE 136 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
Others
Rs. 2250 per thousand
Note. - See 2015 RSCS (Part-II, Rajasthan Section) Page No. 458, Head Note No. 323 for the above referred
superseded notification dt. 2.6.2015.
Section 8(4)
[Noti. No. F. 12(43) FD/Tax/05-pt-88, dt. 24.9.2015 - Raj. Gaz., Exty., Pt. IV(C)(II), dt. 30.9.2015, p. 183 to 184 {S.O.
148}] = 2016 RSCS/ II/ P. 411/ H. 172
S.O. 148. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of section 8 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax, Act,
2003 (Act
No. 4 of 2003
) and in supersession of this Department's notification number F. 12(43) FD/ Tax/ 05-36 dated 24.8.2007, as amended
from time to time, the State Government being of the opinion that it is expedient in the public interest so to do, hereby
exempts, with immediate effect, from payment of tax leviable in respect of transfer of property in goods involved in the
execution of works contracts, executed within the territory of Special Economic Zone, awarded by the units being
established in Special Economic Zone or co-developers or developers of Special Economic Zone, up to 31.03.2016 and
where the Special Economic Zone is established entirely in backward areas specified by the State Government, such
exemption shall be available upto 23.8.2017.
Section 21(3)
[Noti. No. F. 26(315) MEA/CCT/2014/1892, dt, 10.11.2015 - Raj. Gaz., Exty., Pt. IV(C)(II), dt. 17.11.2015, p. 209 {S.O.
163}] = 2016 RSCS/ II/ P. 414/ H. 176
S.O. 163. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of section 21 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax, Act,
2003 (Act
No. 4 of 2003
). I, Vaibhac Galriya, Commissioner, Commercial Taxes, Rajasthan, Jaipur, being of the opinion that it is expedient in
the public interest so to do, hereby, extend the date of submission of quarterly return in Form VAT 10, for the second
quarter of the year 2015-16, i.e.; quarter ending on 30.9.2015, to be furnished by the class of dealers covered under
sub-rule (5)(b) of Rule 19 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Rules, 2006, up to 30.11.2015.
Section 8(3)
[Noti. No. F. 12(11) FD/Tax/2016-253, dt. 30.3.2016-Raj. Gaz., Exty., Pt. IV(C)(II), dt. 30.3.2016, p. 295(22) {S.O. 336}]
= 2016RSCS/II/P. 560/H. 267
S.O. 336. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of section 8 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act,
2003 (Act
No. 4 of 2003
), the State Government being of the opinion that it is expedient in the public interest so to do, hereby, with effect from
1.4.2016, exempts from payment of tax under the Act payable by the dealers having license for retail sale of country
liquor issued by the Excise Department, Government of Rajasthan, on the following conditions, namely:-
(i)
that such dealers have purchased country liquor from the Rajasthan State Ganganagar Sugar Mills (RSGSM) (A
Government of Rajasthan Undertaking) after payment of tax at notified rate; and
(ii)
that such dealer shall not be entitled to claim input tax credit in respect of the country liquor so purchased.
Section 8(3)
[Noti. No. F. 12(11) FD/Tax/2016-257, dt. 30.3.2016-Raj. Gaz., Exty., Pt. IV(C)(II), dt. 30.3.2016, p. 295(25) {S.O. 340}]
= 2016RSCS/II/P. 562/H. 271
S.O. 340. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of section 8 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act,
2003 (Act
No. 4 of 2003
), the State Government being of opinion that it is expedient in the public interest so to do, hereby, with immediate effect,
exempts from payment of tax payable by any dealer who has opted for payment of lump sum in lieu of tax under
notification number F.12(63)FD/Tax/2005-37 dt. 6.5.2006 (Composition Scheme for Gems and Stones, 2006), as
amended from time to time, and failed to deposit the composition amount, interest or late fee within the period specified
Page 136/138
----- PAGE 137 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
under the said notification, on the condition that such dealer has deposited the following amount upto 30.6.2016,
namely:-
(i)
Composition amount payable under the said notification;
(ii)
Interest upto the date of deposit of composition amount, if any; and
(iii)
An amount equal to 200% of the due composition amount which has not been deposited within the period specified
under the said notification.
Section 8(3)
[Noti. No. F. 12(11) FD/Tax/2016-258, dt. 30.3.2016-Raj. Gaz., Exty., Pt. IV(C)(II), dt. 30.3.2016, p. 295(25) {S.O. 341}]
= 2016RSCS/II/P. 562/H. 272
S.O. 341. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of section 8 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act,
2003 (Act
No. 4 of 2003
), the State Government being of opinion that it is expedient in the public interest so to do, hereby, with immediate effect,
exempts from payment of tax payable by any dealer who has opted for payment of lump sum in lieu of tax under
notification number F.12(63)FD/Tax/2005-39 dt. 6.5.2006 (Composition Scheme for Saraffa Dealers, 2006), as amended
from time to time, and failed to deposit the composition amount, interest or late fee within the period specified under the
said notification, on the condition that such dealer has deposited the following amount upto 30.6.2016, namely:-
(i)
Composition amount payable under the said notification;
(ii)
Interest upto the date of deposit of composition amount, if any; and
(iii)
An amount equal to 200% of the due composition amount which has not been deposited within the period specified
under the said notification.
Section 8(3)
S.O. 31. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of section 8 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act,
2003 (Act
No. 4 of 2003
), the State Government being of the of opinion that it is expedient in the public interest so to do, hereby exempts the tax
payable on the sale of semi-stiched garments for the period 8.3.2016 to 31.3.2016.
[Noti. No. F.12(80)FD/Tax/2014-07, dt. 6.5.2016-Raj. Gaz., Exty., Pt. IV(C)(II), dt. 17.5.2016, p. 21(8) {S.O. 31}] = 2016
RSCS/II/P. 605/H. 295
Section 8(3)
S.O. 212. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) of section 8 of the Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act,
2003 (Act
No.4 of 2003
), the State Government being of the opinion that it is expedient in public interest so to do, hereby exempts from
payment of tax, the sale to or purchase by the Akshaya Patra Foundation. Jaipur, of Packaged Drinking Water on the
following conditions, namely:-
1. that the selling dealer shall put a clear label on the Packaged Water Cans as "Not for Sale - Strictly for distribution to
Government School Children";
2. that the selling dealer shall furnish a certificate in Form VAT-72 appended to Rajasthan Value Added Tax Rules, 2006
to his assessing authority in support of such sales duly filled in and signed by the authorized signatory of the Akshaya
Patra Foundation, Jaipur; i
3. that the said goods while in movement shall be accompanied with an authority letter containing the information
regarding supply of goods such as quantity of goods ordered, quantity of supplied goods including the goods being
consigned, quantity of goods remaining to be supplied and such authority letter shall be signed and stamped by the
authorized signatory of the Akshaya Patra Foundation. Jaipur and the selling dealer, and
Page 137/138
----- PAGE 138 -----
The Rajasthan Value Added Tax Act, 2003
4. that the Akshaya Patra Foundation, Jaipur shall furnish to the Commissioner, Commercial Taxes, the details of
packaged water purchased and supplied during the quarter, within thirty days of the end of the relevant quarter, in the
following form, namely:-
Form
S. No.
Opening Stock (Ltr.)
Details of Purchase
Details of supply
Closing Stock (Ltr.)
Name of seller with TIN & invoice no. and
date
Quantity purchased (Ltr.)
Value (Rs.)
Name of School
No. of  student days (No. of students x No. of
days, water supplied to them)
Quantity supplied (Ltr.)
5. this notification shall remain in force up to 15.5.2016 or implementation of Goods and Service Tax, whichever is
earlier.
1.
[Noti. No. F. 4(25) FD/Tax/2003-137. dt. 8.2.2016-Raj. Gaz., Exty., Pt. IV(C)(1I), dt. 11.2.2016,pp. 267(2) - 267(4), {S.O.
212}] = 2016RSCS/II/P. 631/ H. 321
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 138/138