
----- PAGE 1 -----
Rajasthan Electricity Regulatory Commission (Constitution of fund and the manner of applic...
Rajasthan Electricity Regulatory Commission (Constitution of fund
and the manner of application of the fund) Rules, 2006
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/193879665/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Rajasthan - Act
Rajasthan Electricity Regulatory Commission (Constitution of fund and the manner of application of the fund) Rules,
2006
RAJASTHAN
India
Rajasthan Electricity Regulatory Commission (Constitution of fund and the manner of application of the fund) Rules,
2006
Published on 5 August 2006
Commenced on 5 August 2006
[This is the version of this document from 5 August 2006.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Rajasthan Electricity Regulatory Commission (Constitution of fund and the manner of application of the fund) Rules,
2006
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 35, dated 5.8.2006
Last Updated 24th May, 2019
G.S.R. 35. - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (g) of sub-section (2) of section 180 read with sub-section (1)
and (3) of section 103 of the Electricity Act, 2003 (36 of 2003), the Governor is pleased to make the following rules:
1.
Short title and commencement.
Page 1/9
----- PAGE 2 -----
Rajasthan Electricity Regulatory Commission (Constitution of fund and the manner of applic...
(1)
These rules may be called the Rajasthan Electricity Regulatory Commission (Constitution of fund and the manner of
application of the fund) Rules, 2006.
(2)
These regulations will come into effect from the date of their publication in the Official Gazette of the Government of
Rajasthan.
2.
Definitions.
(1)
In these rules unless the context otherwise requires:
(a)
"Accounting period" means the period for which the Accounts are prepared by the Commission and will be concurrent
with the Financial year.
(b)
"Act" means the Electricity Act, 2003 (Act 36 of 2003).
(c)
"Chairperson" means the Chairperson of Rajasthan Electricity Regulatory Commission.
(d)
"Drawing and Disbursing Officer (DDO)" means the officer authorized by the Commission to draw money from the fund
as referred to in Rule 3(2) and make payments on behalf of the Commission.
(e)
"Financial Year" means a period not exceeding twelve calendar months commencing on 1st April of a year and
concluding on 31 March of the following year.
(f)
"Form" means Form appended to these rules.
(g)
"Fund" means the fund constituted under section 103 of the Electricity Act, 2003 for the Rajasthan Electricity Regulatory
Commission to be maintained as per Rule 3(2).
(h)
"Member" means member of the Rajasthan Electricity Regulatory Commission.
(i)
"State Government" means the Government of Rajasthan.
(j)
"State Commission" or "Commission" means the Rajasthan Electricity Regulatory Commission constituted under section
82 of the Act.
(k)
"Secretary" means the Secretary of the Commission.
(2)
Words and expressions used and not defined in these rules, but defined in the Act will have the same meaning as
assigned to them in the Act.
3.
Constitution of the Fund.
(1)
The State Government hereby constitutes a fund in the name of Rajasthan Electricity Regulatory Commission Fund.
(2)
The fund will comprise of:
(i)
Any grants and loans made to the Commission by the State Government under section 102 of the Act.
(ii)
All fees and penalties received by the State Commission under the Act.
(iii)
Page 2/9
----- PAGE 3 -----
Rajasthan Electricity Regulatory Commission (Constitution of fund and the manner of applic...
All other sums as may be received by the State Commission from other sources.
4.
Application of the Fund.
(1)
The fund will be used for making regular payment of pay and allowances and pension and other remuneration to
Chairperson, Members, Secretary, Officers and employees of the State Commission.
(2)
The Commission will also utilize the fund in meeting all expenses, required in connection with discharge of its functions
under section 86 as also for meeting objects and the purposes authorized under the Act, in accordance with the Budget
for the financial year submitted by the Commission under Rule 5. The details of expenditure heads are given in
schedule-I.
(3)
After the financial year, the Commission will submit the duly Audited Annual Accounts to the Government.
(4)
The Commission will prepare its annual budget in Form I and Form II for the next financial year showing the estimated
receipts and expenditure of the Commission and will forward the same to the Department of Energy of the State
Government before 30th September, of the current financial year.
5.
Release of Grants and Loans.
(1)
Grants and loans under section 102 of the Act will be released by the State Government to the State Commission in four
equated quarterly instalments. Sanction orders will be issued by the Energy Department authorizing the Treasury
Officer, Rajasthan Secretariat to draw fund by raising grant in aid bill and disburse the same by an Accounts payee
cheque.
(2)
The State Commission will maintain proper Accounts and other records of the grants and loans as prescribed in the
Rajasthan Electricity Regulatory Commission (annual Statement of Accounts) Rules.
(3)
At the close of the financial year the State Commission will furnish a utilization certificate showing the opening balance,
amount cS grants and loans utilized and the balance remaining unutilized.
6.
Operation of the fund.
(1)
The State Commission will meet the expenses required in connection with the discharge of its functions under section
86 as also for meeting the objects and the purposes authorized by the Act.
(2)
Opening of Bank Account:
(a)
The State Commission after taking a decision of the full Commission will open a bank account/Accounts in the State
Bank of India and/or in one or more Nationalized Bank. For the purpose of ensuring gainful investment of general
provident fund, gratuity fund, pension fund and pension medical concession fund. The Commission may also open
Demat Account in scheduled banks.
(b)
The State Commission will make available the specimen signatures of two of its officers to be the authorized signatories
to the nominated bank/banks for their information and record.
(c)
The nominated bank/banks will furnish monthly payments and receipt scrolls to the State Commission, which will ensure
that the receipts and cheques appearing in the scrolls are those issued/deposited by the State Commission and
reconcile each transaction with the bank/banks.
(3)
Drawl of funds from the bank:
Page 3/9
----- PAGE 4 -----
Rajasthan Electricity Regulatory Commission (Constitution of fund and the manner of applic...
(a)
All funds received will be paid into the State Commission's Accounts in the bank/banks and will riot be withdrawn except
on presentation of a cheque signed by the officers ,as authorised by the State Commission.
(b)
These officers will be responsible for monitoring the transactions of receipts and payments on behalf of the State
commission.
(c)
These officers will also be responsible in ensuring that the amounts of the cheques/demand drafts deposited in the
accredited banks have been credited in time in the account of the State Commission and also reconcile the receipts and
payments Accounts with them.
7.
Delegation of Power.
- The State Commission will lay down a detailed procedure for sanction of various expenditure and delegation of powers
among the Commission, Chairperson and Secretary of the Commission.
8.
Accounts.
(1)
The Accounts of the Commission will be maintained as per provisions of the Rajasthan Electricity Regulatory
Commission (Annual statement of Accounts) Rules,
(2)
The Accounts of the Commission will be authenticated by the Chairperson, one member dealing with the finance and the
Secretary of the State Commission.
9.
Audit.
(1)
The Accounts of the State Commission will be sent to the Comptroller and Auditor General of India(C&AG), or to any
other person appointed by him, within three months of the closing of the financial year. The Accounts of the State
Commission will be Audited by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India. Any expenditure incurred in connection
with such Audit will be payable by the State Commission to the Comptroller and Auditor General of India or any other
person appointed by him.
(2)
The Accounts of the Commission as certified by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India or any other person
appointed by him in this behalf, together with Audit report thereon will be forwarded annually to the Government by 31st
December of each year by the State Commission to enable the Government to place the Audit Report before Rajasthan
State Legislative Assembly.
(3)
The Comptroller and Auditor General of India or any other person appointed by him in this connection for the Audit of the
Accounts of the State Commission will have the same right and privileges and authority in connection with such Audit as
the Comptroller and Auditor General of India has in connection with the Audit of Government Accounts and in particular
will have the right to demand production of books, Accounts, connected vouchers and other documents and papers and
to inspect any of the offices of the State Commission.
10.
Closure of Fund.
(1)
The fund will remain operational as long as the relevant provisions of the Act remain in force.
(2)
All the unspent balance under the fund or when the fund is no longer required will be remitted into the Government
Accounts within three months from the date of drawal of the fund from the Treasury.
11.
Miscellaneous.
- In case of any doubt regarding interpretation of the Rules, or where express provision has not been made in the Rules
Page 4/9
----- PAGE 5 -----
Rajasthan Electricity Regulatory Commission (Constitution of fund and the manner of applic...
about a particular matter, the same will be referred to the Government, whose decision will be final.
I
Details of expenditure heads as per Rule 4(2)
1. Salary & Allowances:
1.1
Pay & Allowances of Chairperson & Members
1.2
Pay & Allowances of Officers and Establishment
1.3
Pay & Allowance of Staff
1.4
Honorarium
1.5
Overtime Allowance
1.6
Medical and Health Care Facilities
1.7
Bonus
Any other Establishment charges (to be specified)
2. Payments towards professional fee & other services.
3. Travel Expenses:
3.1
Domestic Travel Chairman, Members & Other Officers, Domestic Travel-staff.
3.2
Foreign Travel - Chairman, Members & Other Officers,
Foreign Travel-Staff.
4. Other Administrative Expenses:
4.1
Telephone & Fax.
4.2
Rent Rates & Taxes
4.3
News Paper/Periodicals
4.4
Advertisement and Publicity
4.5
Postages and telegram
4.6
Liveries
4.7
Water & Electricity
4.8
Any others(to be specified)
5. Stationery & Printing:
5.1
Stationary
5.2
Printing
6. Publications
7. Miscellaneous and other expenses
8. Repair & Maintenance:
Page 5/9
----- PAGE 6 -----
Rajasthan Electricity Regulatory Commission (Constitution of fund and the manner of applic...
8.1
Building
8.2
Machinery & Equipments
8.3
Furniture & Fixture
8.4
Vehicles
9. Petrol and Lubricants
10. Hospitality Expenses
11. Audit Fees.
12.
Legal charges.
13.
Provident Funds & Other Contribution:
13.1
Pension & Gratuity (including commuted value of pension)
13.2
Contribution to CPF
13.3
Deposit Linked Insurance Scheme
13.4
Leave Salary Contribution
13.5
Pension Contribution
13.6
Gratuity Contribution.
14.
Interest:
14.1
Interest on GPF
14.2
Interest on CPF
14.3
Any others(to be specified)
15.
Group Insurance Scheme:
15.1
EGIS-Saving Fund
15.2
EGIS-Insurance Fund
15.3
ElS-Saving Fund
15.4
EGIS-Insurance Fund
16.
Capital Expenditure:
16.1
Land & Buildings
16.2
Motor cars
Page 6/9
----- PAGE 7 -----
Rajasthan Electricity Regulatory Commission (Constitution of fund and the manner of applic...
16.3
Tools & Plants/Machinery & Equipment
16.4
Furniture
16.5
Computers
16.6
Air conditioners/Coolers
16.7
Any other(to be specified)
17.
Depreciation
18.
Loss on sale of assets
19.
Bad debts written off.
20.
Excess of Income over expenditure (transferred to consolidated fund of Rajasthan)
21.
Outstanding Expenses.
Form-I
Revised Estimate for the year.................and Budget Estimate for the year ................... of the Rajasthan Electricity
Regulatory Commission.
Receipts
Actual for the year ...........
Budget Estimate for the year ...........
Revised Estimate for the year ...........
Budget Estimate for the year ...........
Grants-in-aid from the State Government.
(i) Grants in aid towards, salaries.
(ii) Other Grants in aid.
Grand Total:
Form - II
Revised Estimates for the year...........and Budget Estimate for the year ............... in respect of Rajasthan Electricity
Regulatory Commission
Expenditure
Actual for the year ...........
Budget Estimate for the year ...........
Revised Estimate for the year ...........
Budget Estimate for the year ...........
1.
Salary & Allowance:
1.1 Pay & Allowance of Chairperson &
Members.
1.2 Pay & Allowances of Officers and
Establishment
1.3 Pay & Allowances of Staff
1.4 Honorarium
1.5 Overtime Allowance
1.6 Medical and Health Care Facilities
1.7 Bonus
Page 7/9
----- PAGE 8 -----
Rajasthan Electricity Regulatory Commission (Constitution of fund and the manner of applic...
1.8 Any other establishment charge (to be
specified)
2.
Payments towards professional fee & other
services
3.
Travel Expenses
3.1 Domestic Travel
3.2 Foreign Travel
4.
Other Administrative Expenses:
4.1. Telephone & Fax.
4.2 Rent Rates & Taxes
4.3 News Paper/Periodicals
4.4 Advertisement and Publicity
4.5 Postage and Telegram
4.6 Liveries
4.7 Water & Electricity
4.8 Training expenses
4.9 Contractual service expenses
4.10 Ombudsmen expenses
4.11 Any others (to be specified)
5.
Stationery & Printing
5.1 Stationery
5.2 Printing
6.
Publications
7.
Miscellaneous and other expenses
8.
Repairs & Maintenance:
8.1 Buildings
8.2 Machinery & Equipments
8.3 Furniture & Fixture
8.4 Vehicles
8.5
9.
Petrol and Lubricants
10.
Hospitality Expenses
11.
Audit Fees.
12.
Legal charges.
13.
Provident Fund & Other Contribution:
13.1 Pension & Gratuity (including commuted
value of pension)
13.2 Contribution to CPF
13.3 Deposit Linked Insurance Scheme
Page 8/9
----- PAGE 9 -----
Rajasthan Electricity Regulatory Commission (Constitution of fund and the manner of applic...
13.4 Leave Salary Contribution
13.5 Pension Contribution
13.6 Gratuity Contribution
14.
Interest
14.1 Interest on GPF
14.2 Interest on CPF
14.3 Any others (to be specified)
15.
Capital Equipments:
15.1 Vehicles
15.2 Tools & Plants/Machinery &
Equipments
15.3 Furniture
15.4 Computers
15.5 Air conditioner/Cooler
15.6 Any others (to be specified)
Grand Total
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 9/9