
----- PAGE 1 -----
Rajasthan Municipalities (Motion of No-confidence Against Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson)...
Rajasthan Municipalities (Motion of No-confidence Against
Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson) Rules, 2007
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/174139092/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Rajasthan - Act
Rajasthan Municipalities (Motion of No-confidence Against Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson) Rules, 2007
RAJASTHAN
India
Rajasthan Municipalities (Motion of No-confidence Against Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson) Rules, 2007
Rule
RAJASTHAN-MUNICIPALITIES-MOTION-OF-NO-CONFIDENCE-AGAINST-CHAIRPERSON-OR-VICE-CHAIRPERSO
N-RULES-2007 of 2007
Published on 12 February 2007
Commenced on 12 February 2007
[This is the version of this document from 12 February 2007.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Rajasthan Municipalities (Motion of No-confidence Against Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson) Rules, 2007
Published vide Notification No. F. 8 (G)(327) Rules/LSG/95/671, dated 12.2.2007
Last Updated 21st May, 2019
Notification No. F. 8 (G)(327) Rules/LSG/95/671. - In exercise of the powers conferred under Sectionion297 of the
Rajasthan Municipalities Act, 1959 (Act of 1959) read with Section 72 thereof, the State Government hereby makes the
following rules, namely:-
1.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Rajasthan Municipalities (Motion of No-confidence Against Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson)...
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Rajasthan Municipalities (Motion of No-confidence Against Chairperson or
Vice-Chairperson) Rules, 2007.
(2)
They shall come into force with immediate effect.
2.
Definitions.
(1)
In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires:-
(i)
"Act" means the Rajasthan Municipalities Act, 1959;
(ii)
"Vice Chairperson" means the Vice-Chairman of the Board or Vice-President of a Municipal Council or Deputy Mayor of
a Corporation; and
(iii)
"Eligible Member" means Members of a Board or a Council or a Corporation, but shall not include nominated members
and any member disqualified or suspended under the provisions of the Act.
(2)
Words and expressions used but not defined in these rules shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Act.
3.
Procedure etc.
(1)
A written notice of intention to make motion of no confidence in the Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson signed by one-third
members of the Board or Council or Corporation, as the case may be together with a copy of the motion which is
proposed to be made, shall be sent to the Collector of the District, who shall thereupon convene a meeting for the
consideration of the motion to be held at the office of the Board or Council or Corporation, as the case may be, on the
date and at the time appointed by him, which shall not be earlier than twenty or later than thirty days from the date of the
receipt of the notice.
(2)
The Collector shall send by registered post not less than seven clear days before the date of the meeting a notice of
such meeting and of the date and time fixed therefore to every member of the Board or Council or Corporation.
(3)
The Collector or his nominee shall preside at such meeting and if within half an hour from the time appointed for the
meeting Collector or his nominee is not present or is unable for any unavoidable cause to preside at the meeting, the
meeting shall stand adjourned to the date and the time to be fixed and notified to the members.
(4)
A meeting convened for the purpose of consideration of the motion of no-confidence under these rules shall not for any
reason except stated at sub-rule (3) be adjourned.
(5)
Three-fourth of the number of eligible members shall be required for the quorum.
(6)
No meeting for the consideration of the motion of no-confidence shall be held in absence of quorum.
(7)
The motion of no-confidence against the Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson, as the case may be, shall be deemed to
have been lost if required members for the quorum are not present within an hour from the time appointed for the
meeting.
(8)
As soon as the quorum is complete, the Collector or his nominee shall read the motion for the consideration for which
the meeting has been convened and declare it to be open for discussion.
(9)
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Rajasthan Municipalities (Motion of No-confidence Against Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson)...
Such discussion shall not be adjourned and shall automatically terminate on the expiry of four hours from the time fixed
for the commencement of the meeting unless it is concluded earlier.
(10)
On the conclusion of the debate or upon the expiry of the said period of four hours, as the case may be, the motion shall
be put to the vote of the Board or Council or Corporation. The Collector or his nominate shall neither speak on the merits
thereof nor comment thereon. The voting shall be carried out by way of Secret ballot.
(11)
If the motion is not carried by a 3/4 number of eligible members, the motion of no-confidence against Chairperson or
Vice-Chairperson, as the case may be, shall be deemed to have been lost.
(12)
If the motion is carried by a majority of 3/4 number of eligible members, the motion shall be deemed to have been
passed against the Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson, as the case may be and such Chairperson or Vice-Chairperson
shall forthwith be deemed to have vacated his office.
4.
Repeal and Savings.
- The Rajasthan Municipalities (Motion of No-confidence Against Chairman and Vice-Chairman) Rules, 1974 is hereby
repealed:
Provided that any action taken or any thing done or order passed under the rules so repealed, shall be deemed to be
taken or done or passed under these rules.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3