
----- PAGE 1 -----
Rajasthan Cyber Cafe Rules, 2007
Rajasthan Cyber Cafe Rules, 2007
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/181015518/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Rajasthan - Act
Rajasthan Cyber Cafe Rules, 2007
RAJASTHAN
India
Rajasthan Cyber Cafe Rules, 2007
Rule RAJASTHAN-CYBER-CAFE-RULES-2007 of 2007
Published on 18 April 2007
Commenced on 18 April 2007
[This is the version of this document from 18 April 2007.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Rajasthan Cyber Cafe Rules, 2007
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 6, dated 18.4.2007
Last Updated 20th May, 2019
G.S.R. 6. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 90 of the Information Technology Act, 2000 (Central Act
No. 21 of 2000
), the State Government hereby makes the following rules; namely:-
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Rajasthan Cyber Cafe Rules, 2007.
(2)
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Rajasthan Cyber Cafe Rules, 2007
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires;
(a)
"Act" means the Information Technology Act, 2000 (Central Act
No. 21 of 2000
);
(b)
"Log Register" means the Register maintained by the Cyber Cafe Owner/Network Service Provider for using the Cyber
Cafe or Network Services;
(c)
"User" Means a person who uses the Computer in a Cyber , Cafe;
(d)
"Cyber Cafe" means premises where the Cyber Cafe Owner/Network Service Provider provides the computer services
including Internet access to the public in any of its forms, either on payment or free of charge for any purpose including
recreation or amusement; and
(e)
"Police Authority" mean the Police officer? not below the rank of Deputy Superintendent of Police.
3.
Responsibilities of the Cyber Cafe Owners.
(1)
The owner of the Cyber cafe shall take sufficient precaution so that computers and computer systems in the Cyber Cafe
are not used for any illegal or criminal activity.
(2)
Cyber Cafe Owner/Network Service Provider shall not allow any User to use his Computer, Computer System and /or
Computer Network without the identity of the User being established before him. The intending user may establish his
identity by producing any Photo Identity Card Issued by any school or College or a Photo Credit Card of any bank or
Passport or Voters Identity Card or PAN Card issued by Income-Tax authorities or Photo Identity Card issued by the
Employer or Driving License to the satisfaction of Cyber Cafe Owner.
(3)
After the identity of the User is established, the owner of the Cyber Cafe or the manager or the attendant or on his behalf
any authorized person managing the Cyber Cafe shall obtain and maintain the following information in the Log Register
for each user:
(i)
Name of the User
(ii)
Age and Sex of the User
(iii)
Proof of Identity Produced and its details/Number
(iv)
Present residential address of the User
(v)
IP address of the computer used
(vi)
Name of Network service provider
(vii)
Log in time
(viii)
Log out time
(ix)
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Rajasthan Cyber Cafe Rules, 2007
Photograph of the user taken by Cyber Cafe Owner through Web Cam
(x)
Signature of User.
(4)
The Cyber Cafe Owner/Network Service Provider will keep on record the photo copy of the proof of identity.
(5)
All the computers in the Cyber cafe shall be equipped with the safety software so as to avoid access to the web sites
relating to pornography, obscenity, terrorism and other objection able materials.
(6)
All time clocks in Cyber Cafes must be regularly checked and synchronized with Indian Standard Time (1ST).
(7)
Maintaining proper account of the User as explained shall be the responsibility of the Cyber Cafe Owner/Network
Service Provider.
(8)
Log Register and the Photograph of the User shall be maintained by the Cyber Cafe Owner/Network Service Provider
for a minimum period of One Year and shall be provided to Law enforcement agencies as and when required.
(9)
The Cyber Cafe owner shall be responsible for storing and maintaining backup of following logs for at least six months:
(A)
Proxy logs
(B)
Any other logs created by network software, if any.
(10)
If any activity of the Visitor/user is of suspicious nature, the owner of the Cyber Cafe shall immediately inform the
nearest Police Station.
4.
Inspection of Cyber Cafes.
(1)
Police authorities may inspect Cyber Cafes at all reasonable time to ensure compliance of these rules.
(2)
If any Cyber Cafe Owner/Network Service Provider fail to maintain the Log register and records, he shall be liable for
penalties as provided in the Act or any other Law, for the lime being in force.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3