
----- PAGE 1 -----
Rajasthan State Commission for Backward Classes Act, 2017
Rajasthan State Commission for Backward Classes Act, 2017
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/187848554/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Rajasthan - Act
Rajasthan State Commission for Backward Classes Act, 2017
RAJASTHAN
India
Rajasthan State Commission for Backward Classes Act, 2017
Act 4 of 2017
Published on 16 July 2007
Commenced on 16 July 2007
[This is the version of this document from 16 July 2007.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Rajasthan State Commission for Backward Classes Act, 2017
(Rajasthan Act
No. 4 of 2017
)
Statement of Objects and Reasons. - In pursuance of the directions of the Hon'ble the Supreme Court of India in Indra
Sawhney & Others v. Union of India & Ors., 1992 Suppl. (3) SCC 217, the Rajasthan State Commission for Backward
Classes was constituted by the Rajasthan Government order number F. 11 (150) R & P/RRBC/2007/39035 Jaipur,
dated 16th July, 2007.
In D.B. Civil Writ Petition No. 6046/1999, Ratan Lal Bagri & Ors. vs. State of Rajasthan & Ors., Hon'ble the Rajasthan
High Court has directed the State Government to appoint a
permanent Commission for Backward Classes by enacting a suitable legislation.
Page 1/6
----- PAGE 2 -----
Rajasthan State Commission for Backward Classes Act, 2017
In order to implement the above direction of the Hon'ble the Rajasthan High Court and to provide statutory status to the
Rajasthan State Commission for Backward Classes, the State Government has decided to bring a legislation for
constitution of State Commission for Backward Classes which will work as a permanent mechanism to advise the State
Government for inclusion and complaints of over- inclusion or under- inclusion of any category of Backward Classes.
Since the Rajasthan Legislative Assembly was not in session and circumstances existed which rendered it necessary for
the Governor of Rajasthan to take immediate action, he, therefore, promulgated the Rajasthan State Commission for
Backward Classes Ordinance, 2016 (Ordinance No. 3 of 2016) on 21st October, 2016, which was published in
Rajasthan Gazette, Part IV(B), Extraordinary, dated 21st October, 2016.
The Bill seeks to replace the aforesaid Ordinance.
Hence the Bill.
[Received the assent of the Governor on the 25.3.2017]
An Act to constitute the Rajasthan State Commission for Backward Classes other than the Scheduled Castes and the
Scheduled Tribes and to provide for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.
Be it enacted by the Rajasthan State Legislature in the Sixty-eighth Year of the Republic of India, as follows:-
Chapter I
Preliminary
1.
Short title, extent and commencement.
(1)
This Act may be called the Rajasthan State Commission for Backward Classes Act, 2017.
(2)
It extends to the whole of the State of Rajasthan.
(3)
It shall come into force at once.
2.
Definitions.
- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"backward classes" means all categories of backward classes of citizens, other than the Scheduled Castes and
Scheduled Tribes, as may be declared by or under respective law for the time being in force making provision for the
reservation of appointments or posts in services under the State and of seats in educational institutions in the State in
favour of the respective category of backward classes of citizens in the State;
(b)
"Commission" means the Rajasthan State Commission for Backward Classes constituted under section 3;
(c)
"Member" means a Member of the Commission and includes the Chairperson;
(d)
"prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this Act;
(e)
"Scheduled Castes" means any of the castes specified in the Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order, 1950 as amended
from time to time;
(f)
"Scheduled Tribes" means any of the tribes specified in the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order, 1950 as amended
from time to time;
(g)
" services under the State" shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in clause (g) of section 2 of the Rajasthan
Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, Backward Classes, Special Backward Classes and Economically Backward
Classes (Reservation of Seats in Educational Institutions in the State and of Appointments and Posts in Services under
the State) Act, 2008 (Act No. 12 of 2009).
Chapter II
The Rajasthan State Commission for Backward Classes
Page 2/6
----- PAGE 3 -----
Rajasthan State Commission for Backward Classes Act, 2017
3.
Constitution of the Rajasthan State Commission for Backward Classes.
(1)
The State Government shall constitute a body to be known as the Rajasthan State Commission for Backward Classes to
exercise the powers conferred on, and to perform the functions assigned to, it under this Act.
(2)
The Commission shall consist of the following Members to be nominated by the State Government, namely:-
(a)
a Chairperson, who is or has been a Judge of a High Court;
(b)
a social scientist:
(c)
two persons, who have special knowledge in matters relating to backward classes; and
(d)
a Member-Secretary, who is or has been an officer of the State Government not below the rank of Joint Secretary to the
Government of Rajasthan or is or has been a District Judge:
Provided that the Chairperson, Member-Secretary and Members of the Rajasthan State Commission for Backward
Classes constituted by the Rajasthan Government order number F. 11(150)R&P/RRBC/2007/39035 Jaipur, dated 16th
July, 2007, who were working immediately before the commencement of this Act shall be deemed to have been
nominated as the Chairperson, Member-Secretary and Members, as the case may be, of the Commission constituted
under this Act with effect from the date of constitution of the Commission under this Act.
4.
Term of office and conditions of service of the Chairperson and Members.
(1)
A Member shall hold office for a period of three years or until the pleasure of the State Government, whichever is earlier.
(2)
A Member may, by writing under his hand addressed to the State Government, resign from the office of Chairperson or,
as the case may be. of Member at any time.
(3)
The State Government shall remove a person from the office of Member if that person
(a)
becomes an undischarged insolvent:
(b)
is convicted and sentenced to imprisonment for an offence which, in the opinion of the State Government, involves
moral turpitude;
(c)
becomes of unsound mind and stands so declared by a competent court;
(d)
refuses to act or becomes incapable of acting;
(e)
is, without obtaining leave of absence from the Commission, absent from three consecutive meetings of the
Commission; or
(f)
has, in the opinion of the State Government, so abused the position of Chairperson or Member as to render that persons
continuance in office detrimental to the interests of backward classes or the public interest:
Provided that no person shall be removed under this clause until that person has been given an opportunity of being
heard in the matter.
(4)
A vacancy caused under sub-section (2) or otherwise shall be filled by fresh nomination.
(5)
The salaries and allowances payable to, and the other terms and conditions of service of, the Chairperson and Members
Page 3/6
----- PAGE 4 -----
Rajasthan State Commission for Backward Classes Act, 2017
shall be such as may be prescribed.
5.
Officers and other employees of the Commission.
(1)
The State Government shall provide the Commission with such officers and employees as may be necessary for the
efficient performance of the functions of the Commission.
(2)
The salaries and allowances payable to, and the other terms and conditions of service of, the officers and other
employees appointed for the purpose of the Commission shall be such as may be prescribed.
6.
Salaries and allowances to be paid out of grants.
- The salaries and allowances payable to the Chairperson and Members and the administrative expenses, including
salaries, allowances payable to the officers and other employees referred to in section 5, shall be paid out of the grants
referred to in sub-section (1) of section 12.
7.
Vacancies, etc., not to invalidate proceedings of the Commission.
- No act or proceedings of the Commission shall be invalid on the ground merely of the existence of any vacancy or
defect in the constitution of the Commission.
8.
Procedure to be regulated by the Commission.
(1)
The Commission shall meet as and when necessary at such time and place as the Chairperson may think fit.
(2)
The Commission shall regulate its own procedure.
(3)
All orders and decisions of the Commission shall be authenticated by the Member-Secretary or any other officer of the
Commission duly authorized by the Member-Secretary in this behalf.
Chapter III
Functions and Powers of the Commission
9.
Functions of the Commission.
(1)
The Commission shall examine requests for inclusion of any class of citizens in the category of respective backward
class as per terms of reference specified by the State Government and hear complaints of over-inclusion or
under-inclusion in any category of backward class and make recommendations thereon to the State Government.
(2)
The recommendations of the Commission under sub-section (1) shall ordinarily be binding but the State Government
may, for the reasons to be recorded in writing, reject the recommendations or refer them back to the Commission to
carry out further study to support its recommendations.
10.
Powers of the Commission.
- The Commission shall, while performing its functions under sub-section (1) of section 9, have all the powers of a civil
court trying a suit and in particular, in respect of the following matters, namely:-
(a)
summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person from any part of the State and examining him on oath;
(b)
requiring the discovery and production of any document;
(c)
receiving evidence on affidavits;
(d)
requisitioning any public record or copy thereof from any court or office;
Page 4/6
----- PAGE 5 -----
Rajasthan State Commission for Backward Classes Act, 2017
(e)
issuing commissions for the examination of witnesses and documents; and
(f)
any other matter which may be prescribed.
11.
Periodic revision by the State Government.
(1)
The State Government may undertake a periodic revision of the categories of backward classes with a view to excluding
therefrom those classes who have ceased to be backward classes or for including therein new backward classes.
(2)
The State Government shall, while undertaking any revision referred to in sub-section (1), consult the Commission.
Chapter IV
Finance, Accounts and Audit
12.
Grants by the State Government.
(1)
The State Government shall, after due appropriation made by the State Legislature by law in this behalf, pay to the
Commission by way of grants such sums of money as the State Government may think fit for being utilized for the
purposes of this Act.
(2)
The Commission may spend such sums as it thinks fit for performing the functions under this Act, and such sums shall
be treated as expenditure payable out of the grants referred to in sub-section (1).
13.
Accounts and audit.
(1)
The Commission shall maintain proper accounts and other relevant records and prepare an annual statement of
accounts in such form as may be prescribed by the State Government in consultation with the Accountant General,
Rajasthan.
(2)
The accounts of the Commission shall be audited by such authority or body as may be prescribed by the State
Government and the expenditure incurred in connection with such audit shall be payable out of the grant provided to the
Commission.
(3)
The Authority or body prescribed under sub-section (2) shall have the same rights and privileges and the authority in
connection with such audit as the Accountant General, Rajasthan has in connection with the audit of Government
accounts and, in particular, shall have the right to demand the production of books, accounts, connected vouchers and
other documents and papers and to inspect any of the offices of the Commission.
14.
Annual report.
- The Commission shall prepare, in such form and at such time, for each financial year, as may be prescribed, its annual
report giving a full account of its activities during the previous financial year and forward a copy thereof to the State
Government.
15.
Annual report and audit report to be laid before the State Legislature.
- The State Government shall cause the annual report, together with a memorandum of action taken on the
recommendations of the Commission under section 9 and the reasons for the non-acceptance, if any, of any such
recommendation, and the audit report to be laid as soon as may be after they are received before the House of the State
Legislature.
Chapter V
Miscellaneous
16.
Page 5/6
----- PAGE 6 -----
Rajasthan State Commission for Backward Classes Act, 2017
Chairperson, Members and employees of the Commission to be Public servants.
- The Chairperson, Members and employees of the Commission shall be deemed to be public servants within the
meaning of section 21 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (Central Act No. 45 of 1860).
17.
Power to make rules.
(1)
The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make rules for carrying out the provisions of this Act.
(2)
In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing powers, such rules may provide for all or any of the
following matters, namely:-
(a)
salaries and allowances payable to, and the other terms and conditions of service of, the Chairperson and Members
under sub-section (5) of section 4 and the officers and other employees under sub-section (2) of section 5;
(b)
the form in which the annual statement of accounts shall be prepared, and the authority or body winch shall audit the
accounts, under section 13;
(c)
the form in, and the time at, which the annual report shall be prepared under section 14;
(d)
any other matter which is required to be, or may be, prescribed.
(3)
All rules made under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after they are so made, before the House of the State
Legislature, while it is in session, for a period of not less than fourteen days, which may comprise in one session or in
two successive sessions and if before the expiry of the session in which they are so laid, or of the session immediately
following, the House of the State Legislature makes any modification in any of such rules or resolves that any such rule
should not be made, such rule shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may
be, so however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously
done thereunder.
18.
Power to remove difficulties.
(1)
If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the State Government may, by an order published in
the Official Gazette, do anything not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, which appears to it to be necessary or
expedient for removing the difficulty:
Provided that no order under this section shall be made after the expiry of two years from the date of the
commencement of this Act.
(2)
Every order made under this section shall be laid, as soon as may be, after it is so made, before the House of the State
Legislature.
19.
Repeal and savings.
(1)
The Rajasthan State Commission for Backward Classes Ordinance, 2016 (Ordinance No. 3 of 2016) is hereby repealed.
(2)
Notwithstanding such repeal, all things done, actions taken or orders made under the said Ordinance shall be deemed
to have been done, taken or made under this Act.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 6/6