
----- PAGE 1 -----
Agriculture University, Jobner (Change of Name) Act, 2014
Agriculture University, Jobner (Change of Name) Act, 2014
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/187345829/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Rajasthan - Act
Agriculture University, Jobner (Change of Name) Act, 2014
RAJASTHAN
India
Agriculture University, Jobner (Change of Name) Act, 2014
Act 12 of 2014
Published on 4 July 2014
Commenced on 4 July 2014
[This is the version of this document from 4 July 2014.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Agriculture University, Jobner (Change of Name) Act, 2014
(Rajasthan Act
No. 12 of 2014
)
Statement of Objects and Reasons. - Sri Karan Narendra is a well known name in the field of education. He devoted his
entire life for the spread and universalization of education. Late Sri Karan Narendra donated 2100 acres of land for
establishment of the Agriculture College, Jobner on 7th July, 1947 which was named after him. Agriculture University of
Jobner has also been established in the premises of Sri Karan Narendra College of Agriculture, Jobner.
Many representations of educationists, intellectuals, political leaders and social organizations were received to change
the name of the Agriculture University, Jobner and to rename it as the Sri Karan Narendra Agriculture University, Jobner
in the memory of Late Sri Karan Narendra as the land on which the University has been set up was donated by him it
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Agriculture University, Jobner (Change of Name) Act, 2014
will be appropriate to name the University as Sri Karan Narendra University Agriculture, Jobner.
The Agriculture University, Jobner Bill, 2013 was passed by the Legislative Assembly after lot of discussions. During the
discussions in the Legislative Assembly during the passing of the Bill, several Hon'ble Members of the Legislative
Assembly had demanded that Agriculture University, Jobner may be renamed as Sri Karan Narendra Agriculture
University, Jobner. The State Government had assured the House during the discussion to reconsider this demand.
To meet the demand of the Hon'ble Legislative Assembly Members, citizens of Jobner, educationists and social
organizations for changing the name of the Agriculture University, Jobner and to keep the memory of Late Sri Karan
Narendra alive, it is proposed to change the name of the Agriculture University, Jobner as the Sri Karan Narendra
Agriculture University, Jobner, In order to keep parity with the other Universities the State Government had decided to
amend section 53 of the Agriculture University, Jobner Act, 2013 so as to keep the tenure of the first Vice-Chancellor as
three years in place of one year.
Since the Rajasthan Legislative Assembly was not in session and circumstances existed which rendered it necessary for
the Governor of Rajasthan to take immediate action, she, therefore, promulgated the Agriculture University, Jobner
(Change of Name and Amendment) Ordinance, 2013 (Ordinance No. 23 of 2013) on 21st September, 2013, which was
published in Rajasthan Gazette, Part IV(B), Extraordinary, dated 21st September, 2013.
Now the Government has reconsidered the issue of extending the term of office of the first Vice-Chancellor of the
University and has decided not to extended the period. Hence, the amendment proposed in section 53 has been
dropped.
The Bill seeks to replace the aforesaid Ordinance with the modification as aforesaid.
Hence the Bill.
[Dated 4.7.2014.]
[Received the assent of the Governor on the 3rd day of July, 2014]
An Act to change the name of the Agriculture University, Jobner and to amend the Agriculture University, Jobner
Act,2013.
Be it enacted by the Rajasthan State Legislature in the Sixty-fifth Year of the Republic of India, as follows:-
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
This Act may be called the Agriculture University, Jobner (Change of Name) Act, 2014.
(2)
It shall be deemed to have come into force on and from 21st September, 2013.
2.
Change of name of the Agriculture University, Jobner.
(1)
The name of the Agriculture University, Jobner incorporated under the Agriculture University, Jobner Act, 2013 (Act
No. 20 of 2013
), hereinafter referred to as the principal Act, shall, as from the date of commencement of this Act, be the Sri Karan
Narendra Agriculture University, Jobner.
(2)
Any reference to the Agriculture University, Jobner in any law for the time being in force or in any indenture, instrument,
or other documents shall be read and construed as a reference to that University under its name as altered by this Act.
(3)
Nothing in this Act shall affect the continuity of the corporate status of the said University.
3.
Amendment.
(1)
As from the date of commencement of this Act, the principal Act shall stand amended to the extent and in the manner
specified in the schedule.
(2)
The provisions of sub-section (1) shall be without prejudice to the generality of the provisions of section 2.
4.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Agriculture University, Jobner (Change of Name) Act, 2014
Citation of the principal Act.
- The principal Act may be cited as the Sri Karan Narendra Agriculture University, Jobner Act, 2013.
5.
Repeal and savings.
(1)
The Agriculture University, Jobner (Change of Name and Amendment) Ordinance, 2013 (Ordinance No. 23 of 2013) is
hereby repealed.
(2)
Notwithstanding such repeal, all things done, actions taken or orders made under the principal Act as amended by the
said Ordinance shall be deemed to have been done, taken or made under the principal Act as amended by this Act.
The Schedule
(See section 3)
Section 1. - In sub-section (1), for the existing expression "the Agriculture University, Jobner Act", the expression "the Sri
Karan Narendra Agriculture University, Jobner Act" shall be substituted.
Section 2. - For the existing clause (z), the following shall be substituted, namely:-
(z)
"University" means the Sri Karan Narendra Agriculture University, Jobner as established and constituted under this
Act;".
Section 3. - In sub-section (1), for the existing expression "the Agriculture University, Jobner", the expression "the Sri
Karan Narendra Agriculture University, Jobner " shall be substituted.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3