
----- PAGE 1 -----
Rajasthan Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, 2006
Rajasthan Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, 2006
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/106477381/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
11
]
State of Rajasthan - Act
Rajasthan Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, 2006
RAJASTHAN
India
Rajasthan Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, 2006
Act 13 of 2006
Published on 22 April 2015
Commenced on 22 April 2015
[This is the version of this document from 22 April 2015.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Rajasthan Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, 2006
(Act
No. 13 of 2006
)
RJ74
Statement of Objects and Reasons. - The problem of defacement of property in public view by defacing or spitting or
urinating or pasting pamphlets or posters or writing or marking with ink, chalk, paint or any other material or method has
been engaging the attention of the State Government for quite some time. With a view to prevent the defacement of the
property in public view and to maintain beauty of the towns and cities in the State, it has been considered expedient to
enact a suitable legislation in the State.
The Bill seeks to achieve the aforesaid objects.
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
Rajasthan Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, 2006
Statement of Objects and Reasons (Act No. 12 of 2015). - It has been found that houses, walls, fences and other
structures situated in the municipal area are usually defaced by various persons. Such defacement spoils the public
view and the beauty of the properties and causes the bed image of the city or town in the minds of citizens as well
visitors. It is, therefore, felt necessary to put a check on such activities and preserve the originality and beauty of all
places including the places of historical, tourism and heritage importance. For this purpose the Rajasthan Prevention of
Defacement of Property Act, 2006 was enacted. But, now it is felt, that the penalty prescribed under the Act is too
meagre and insufficient to check such activities in spite of close vigil and enforcement. Therefore, the State Government
has proposed to enhance the penalty prescribed in sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Act and amend the said
sub-section accordingly.
The Bill seeks to achieve the aforesaid objectives.
Hence the Bill.
Statement of Objects and Reasons (Act
No. 13 of 2006
). - The problem of defacement of property in public view by defacing or spitting or urinating or pasting pamphlets or
posters or writing or marking with ink, chalk, paint or any other material or method had been engaging the attention of
the State Government for some time. With a view to prevent the defacement of property in public view and to maintain
beauty of the towns and cities in the State, it was considered expedient to enact a suitable law and accordingly a Bill
was introduced in the fourth session of the twelfth Rajasthan Legislative Assembly. However, the Bill could not be
passed in that session.
The problem of defacement of property in public view was widespread and required immediate action.
Since the Rajasthan Legislative Assembly was not in session and circumstances existed which rendered it necessary for
the Governor to take immediate action, therefore, she promulgated the Rajasthan Prevention of Defacement of Property
Ordinance, 2006 (Ordinance No. 2 of 2006) on 15.1.2006, Which was published in Rajasthan Gazette, Part IV (B),
Extraordinary, dated 17.1.2006.
This Bill seeks to replace the aforesaid Ordinance.
Published in Gazette of Rajasthan, Extraordinary, Part 4(Ka), dated 3.5.2006, page 17(5).
[Received the assent of the President on the 25th day of April, 2006]
An Act to provide for the prevention of defacement of property and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.
Be it enacted by the Rajasthan State Legislature in the Fifty-seventh year of the Republic of India as follows:-
1.
Short title, extent and commencement.
(1)
This Act may be called the Rajasthan Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, 2006.
(2)
It shall extends to the municipal areas of the State of Rajasthan.
(3)
It shall be deemed to have come into force on and from 17th January, 2006.
2.
Definition.
- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"defacement" includes impairing or interfering with the appearance or beauty, damaging, disfiguring, spoiling or injuring
in any way whatsoever and the word "deface" shall be construed accordingly;
(b)
"municipal area" and "municipality" shall have the same meaning as assigned to them in the [Rajasthan Municipalities
Act, 1959 (Act No. of 38 of 1959)]
[Now see the provisions of Rajasthan Municipalities Act, 2009]
;
(c)
"property" includes any building, hut, monument, statue, water pipe line, public road, structure, wall including compound
wall, tree, fence, post, pole or any other erection as may be notified by the State Government from time to time;
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
Rajasthan Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, 2006
(d)
"public place" means any place (including a road, street or way whether a thoroughfare or not and a landing place) to
which the public are grated access or have a right to resort or over which they have a right to pass;
(e)
"public view" means anything which is visible to public while they are in or passing along any public place; and
(f)
"writing" includes decoration, lettering, ornamentation, etc., produced by stencil.
3.
Penalty for defacement of property.
(1)
Whoever defaces any property in public view by defacing or spitting or urinating or pasting pamphlets, posters etc. or
writing or marking with ink, chalk, paint or any other material or method except for the purpose of indicating the name
and address of the owner or occupier of such property, shall be punishable, in case of first offence, with imprisonment
for a term which may extend to [one year or with fine which shall not be less than five thousand rupees but which may
extend to ten thousand rupees or with both, and in case of each subsequent offence, with imprisonment for a term which
may extend to two years or with fine which shall not be less then ten thousand rupees but which may extend to twenty
thousand rupees or with both.]
[Substituted by Act No. 12 of 2015, dated 22.4.2015.]
(2)
Where any offence committed under sub-section (1) is for the benefit of some other person or a company or other body
corporate or an association of persons (whether incorporated or not) then, such other person and every President,
Chairman, Director, Partner, Manager, Secretary, Agent or any other officer or person concerned with the management
thereof, as the case may be, shall, unless he proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge or consent,
be deemed to be guilty of such offence.
4.
Punishment for attempt to commit offence.
- Whoever attempts to commit any offence punishable under this Act or causes such offence to be committed and in
such attempt does any act towards the commission of the offence, shall be punishable with the punishment provided for
the offence.
5.
Punishment for abettor.
- Any person who by the supply of or solicitation for money, the providing of premises, the supply of materials or in any
manner whatsoever procures, counsels, aids, abets, or is accessory to, the commission of any offence under this Act
shall be punished with the punishment provided for the offence.
6.
Offence to be cognizable
- An offence punishable under this Act shall be cognizable.
7.
Power to erase writing etc.
- Without prejudice to the provisions of Section 3, it shall be competent for the municipality or any officer authorised by it
in this behalf, to take such steps as may be necessary for erasing any writing, freeing any defacement or removing any
mark from any property.
8.
Power to compound offence.
- It shall be competent for the municipality or any officer authorised by it in this behalf to withdraw any prosecution, or to
compound any offence committed under this Act on such terms and conditions as may be prescribed.
9.
Indemnity
- No suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall lie against the Government, any local authority or person for
anything which is in good faith or in public interest done or intended to be done under this Act.
10.
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
Rajasthan Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, 2006
Act to override other laws.
- The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any other law for the
time being in force.
11.
Power to make rules.
(1)
The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make rules for the purpose of carrying into effect the
provisions of this Act.
(2)
All rules made under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be, after they are so made, before the House of the State
Legislature, while it is in session, for a period of not less than fourteen days which may be comprised in one session or
in two successive sessions and if before the expiry of the session in which they are so laid or of the session immediately
following, the House of the State Legislature makes any modification in any of such rules or resolves that any such rule
should not be made, such rule shall, thereafter, have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case
may be, so however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of any-thing
previously done thereunder.
12.
Repeal and savings.
(1)
The Rajasthan Prevention of Defacement of Property Ordinance, 2006 (Ordinance No. 2 of 2006) is hereby repealed.
(2)
Notwithstanding such repeal, all things done, actions taken or orders made under the said Ordinance shall be deemed
to have been done, taken or made under this Act.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4