
----- PAGE 1 -----
General Rules for the Localization and Demarcation of Enclosures in Reserved Forests
General Rules for the Localization and Demarcation of Enclosures in
Reserved Forests
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/64040520/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of  Tamilnadu- Act
General Rules for the Localization and Demarcation of Enclosures in Reserved Forests
TAMILNADU
India
General Rules for the Localization and Demarcation of Enclosures in Reserved Forests
Rule
GENERAL-RULES-FOR-THE-LOCALIZATION-AND-DEMARCATION-OF-ENCLOSURES-IN-RESERVED-FORESTS of
1903
Published on 3 July 1903
Commenced on 3 July 1903
[This is the version of this document from 3 July 1903.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
General Rules for the Localization and Demarcation of Enclosures in Reserved Forests
Published vide Notification No. B. P. F. No. 184, dated 3rd July 1903, and G. O. Ms. No. 2476, Development, dated 8th
November 1937
1.
The work of demarcation must be carried out by the Forest Department as the forest Settlement Officer has neither
establishment nor funds and as the Revenue Department is only incidentally concerned. This should be done wherever
possible, in a preliminary fashion, before the notification under section 4 is sent up and may be finally completed after
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
General Rules for the Localization and Demarcation of Enclosures in Reserved Forests
the notification under section 16 has been issued. If there is doubt or dispute, the preliminary demarcation may be
postponed, until by the Forest Settlement Officers' decision, the boundaries are authoritatively settled.
2.
The preliminary identification or localisation should be performed by the local revenue officials who should co-operate for
this purpose with the forest officials and any delay on their part should be brought to the Collector's notice. The final and
authoritative localisation is performed when the Forest Settlement Officer passes his decision. In this case, as in the
case of demarcation, the preliminary work may, in case of doubt or dispute, be postponed, until the Forest Settlement
Officer's decision settles the matter.
3.
The Forest Settlement Officer must himself visit the enclosure and must satisfy himself by actual inspection, that its
boundaries are correctly and clearly laid down on the ground in accordance with his decision. Certificates from ryots or
village officers are not sufficient.
4.
The Forest Department should, as far as possible, indicate all known enclosures in the sketch maps forwarded with draft
notification under section 4 and should intimate to the Forest Settlement Officer prior to his inspection what fields should
be acquired and what retained as enclosures.
5.
In regard to the manner in which the demarcation of the enclosures should be done, rules 17 and 18 of the rules for the
demarcation of forest blocks should be followed, subject, of course, to such modifications as local circumstances may
necessitate.
Rules for the Demarcation of Forest Blocks
(B. P. F. No. 53, dated the 1st February 1892; B. P. F. No. 391, dated the 8th September 1897 and G. O. Ms. No. 2476,
Development, dated the 8th November 1937)
[N.B. - The instructions conveyed in the rules may be modified to suit local conditions or for other good reason]
Selection of boundaries, Reserve boundaries and demarcation. - District Forest Officers cannot be too careful about.this,
and though maps and local information regarding occupied lands may be usefully employed at the time, it is absolutely
necessary in order to secure good boundaries that they should be selected, marked and described on the ground, and in
all cases by the District Forest Officer himself, or some subordinate of particular intelligence, who can be fully trusted.
To save delay at the time of selection, the points may be temporarily marked by planting flags and tarring the nearest
rock or tree, or cutting some figure on the ground; but immediate steps should be taken to follow up with preliminary
demarcation and clearing, as described further on under permanent demarcation, but of a less substantial nature
pending final notification under section 16-the boundary being, however, in all cases clearly defined.
A selected boundary based only on a map of the country, or on information supplied by subordinates can never be relied
on, and has more often than otherwise proved a most difficult and expensive one to subsequently mark, clear and
protect.
2. Ridges and spurs, roads and paths, streams and ravines, may be regarded as natural boundaries, and point to point
line artificial ones.
3. When a stream or ravine is selected, the outer bank should, as a rule, be taken, so as to protect the growth on both
banks, and to conserve the fishing.
4. Attention should also be given, in the selection of boundaries, to making them as practicable and easily and cheaply
maintained as possible for clearing and fire protection and to their use as rides for inspection, or roads for export of
forest produce.
5. Provided that there is no interference with recognised occupancy rights without the consent of the owner or occupier,
it is necessary that artificial boundaries should be demarcated and cleared sufficiently for identification (see rule 1)
before settlement (if properly selected there ought to be few alterations by the Forest Settlement Officer), but the
demarcation of undoubted natural boundaries may be postponed when necessary till after settlement is complete.
6.
In demarcating natural boundaries, such as railways, roads, occupied lands, etc., it is better, unless there are special
reasons to the contrary, to leave a margin, not exceeding one chain, for the extraction of ballast, load metal, movements
of cattle, etc.
7.
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
General Rules for the Localization and Demarcation of Enclosures in Reserved Forests
All boundaries must be demarcated and cleared before survey can be undertaken.
8.
To secure business like and straight practicable lines, much care and thought is necessary. The line, in as long sections
as possible, should run evenly along the limits, or in the direction of the main points aimed at, and taking no more turns
than are necessary, the points or turns of a line should be chosen and described so that from one point the next may be
readily seen with the naked eye (or will be so seen when the line is cleared) and all of them should be as conspicuous
as possible, especially from the outside of the reserve. For this reason, points should, whenever possible, be chosen on
high places and open spaces and they must be so selected as to allow of the lines between them running straight.
9.
Permanent demarcation and clearing. - For various reasons, the easiest, cheapest and most easily maintained
demarcation for general use is that of a pillar at every point (i.e., turn) of the line, with a clearing between the pillars; and
the most ready form of boundary is that of a substantially built cairn with centre post as described further on.
In certain localities, where slabs of stone are cheaply and easily procurable they may, with advantage, be used for
boundary pillars. They should stand 5 feet above ground, and be substantial enough to prevent their being removed or
broken off by cattle, etc.
10.
The clearing should be a complete clearing up of the line (including, in time, removal of all stumps and loose stones) for
a breath of not less than 6 yards (5-1/2 yards would be exactly 2 acres a running mile), for which if in open ground a half
foot broad and deep ditch running along the outer edges of the pillar line may be substituted.
N.B. - The above are the rates arrived at by experience in the Salem district, but will of course vary considerably
according to local circumstances and schedule of rates.
11.
The forest boundary pillars will, of course, mark the actual limits of the reserve and should be placed on the outer edge
of the cleared line. The pillars should be visible from one to the other, and in cases where the turning points of a
boundary are so distant as to render this doubtful, intermediate cairs or pillars should be erected; as a rule, boundary
pillars should not be more than 200 yards apart.
12.
As a useful supplement to pillar demarcation, a line of closely planted tall growing trees such as palmyrahs may, with
advantage, be planted along the inner edge of the pillar line.
13.
Fences and walls, when required, should run along the outer edge of the pillar line.
Note for information. - A plain aloe fence will average about four pies a yard, or Rs. 36 a mile. An aloe fence on a two
feet high earth ban will average about one anna a yard, or Rs. 110 a mile. A three foot high mud wall one foot broad, will
average about one anna three pies a yard or Rs. 137 a mile. A three foot high rough stone wall 11/2 feet broad will
average about 1 anna 6 pies a yard, or Rs. 165 a mile. A wire fence from Rs. 500 a mile. The earth for bank or wall
should be taken from a broad shallow ditch just outside and slopping downwards to the bank or wall, so as to make a
more efficient barricade against cattle (See Figure 1 below).
14.
The construction of the pillars (where the form of cairn and post is adopted) should be as follows. The posts must be
straight and of the most durable woods obtainable. They should be 6 feet long and not less than 6 inches in diameter;
one foot will be sunk in the ground, and one foot will remain exposed above the cairn. (See Figure 2 on page 161)
15.
The cairns will be built round the post of the largest stones procurable (or earth and turf where stones are not available),
up to a height of 4 feet and should be 4 feet in diameter, or square, at the base, and 2 feet
at the top.
16.
Facing outwards on each post must be marked in tar the Government arrow, the letters R. F. (for Reserved Forests) and
a consecutive pillar number.
The numbers only may also be marked on the inside of the pillars so as to be visible during inspections from inside and
utilised for the location of interior lines, etc.
17.
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
General Rules for the Localization and Demarcation of Enclosures in Reserved Forests
For interior demarcation, e.g., enclosures similar pillars should be built, but the clearing may be reduced to 1 metre. The
marking of interior pillars should be in accordance with their purpose. Those which mark "enclosures" should bear the
claim number of the settlement under which they were admitted.
As a distinction between interior and exterior pillars, the Government arrow and letters R. F. should be omitted from the
former.
18.
When posts are not obtainable, or have decayed, a stone of suitable dimensions and bearing the prescribed marks,
should be let in at the top of the cairn in their place.
19.
Pillars should not be marked R. F. until the area is finally notified under section 16, nor should they be numbered until
ready for survey, or at least until the points marked are definitely approved of and will not need to be altered.
Note. - When numbering pillars, it is advisable to similarly number some bottom stone in the pillar, or the nearest rock, in
case pillar top numbers should disappear
Pillars may, with advantage, be splashed from time to time with white-wash. It renders them more distinct interference
with them more easily detected, and proves that guards and watchmen are attending to the boundaries.
20.
Signboards. - Signboards or "forest reserves" or "forest topes", "forest depots", "forest offices", "forest stations" and
"forest camps" should be made with a zinc or tin plate, painted white on both sides, with 1 inch letters cut out and nailed
to 1 inch boards (= inch planks set crossways), painted black on both sides (with tar), and measuring 15 inches upright
by 12 inches broad. They should be fixed by one nail, so as to hang perpendicularly from suitable posts or trees, and
must always be placed on the left hand side of any road or path that enters the enclosure as well as (in the case of
reserves) on the side of the reserve where every path or road that border the reserve, first touches it and last touches it.
In the case of reserved forests, every path that touches the boundary, and every admitted right of way must be marked
as shown in the margin with a signboard.
21.
For paths that border a reserve, the boards should face parallel with the path. For paths that enter a reserve, the boards
should face at right angles to the path, so that in all cases the board will face away from the area it defines.
22.
The names when too long for the 12 inch breadth of board, must be prepared on a separate strip of zinc and plank; so
as to nail on in its proper place on the sign board.
Note. -The cost of these signboards will average about 12 annas each. The tarred boards will last a long time, and the
zinc plates can be so nailed on that by temporarily slipping a piece of tin or zinc behind the plate and using a white paint
brush; the white on the plates can be renewed at any time without removing the plates from the boards.
Where signboards are considered useless, they may be dispensed with, and cairns or stone slabs put up to distinguish
roads or paths.
23.
It is most important at the time of selection, demarcation, or clearing of boundaries, that a careful record should be kept
and filed with the settlement papers to show the time, the cost, and the name of the responsible officer supervising the
work, and in the case of selection or the alteration of a boundary, a statement of the description and situation of each
point and the run of the line from it, must be recorded and should be signed by (or the names at least given of) the
village officers and fores t subordinates who were present.
24.
Pending the actual survey of a reserve, it is also necessary for record to mark neatly by red ink dots on the best
available maps, the boundaries, as nearly as can be shown; and when boundary lines have been cleared, this also
should be shown on the map by a thin red line just above and another just below the dots.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4