
----- PAGE 1 -----
Chennai City Police Gaming Rules, 1949
Chennai City Police Gaming Rules, 1949
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/139636757/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of  Tamilnadu- Act
Chennai City Police Gaming Rules, 1949
TAMILNADU
India
Chennai City Police Gaming Rules, 1949
Rule CHENNAI-CITY-POLICE-GAMING-RULES-1949 of 1949
Published on 19 November 1948
Commenced on 19 November 1948
[This is the version of this document from 19 November 1948.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Chennai City Police Gaming Rules, 1949
Published vide Notification No. G.O. MS.No. 4279, Home, dated 19.11.1948
In exercise of the powers conferred by section 49-A (2) of the Chennai City Police Act, 1888 (Tamil Nadu Act III of
1888), as amended by the Tamil Nadu Act VII of 1949, his Excellency the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the
following rules:-
1.
Short title.
- These rules may be called the Chennai City Police Gaming Rules, 1949.
2.
The following publications may contain the information specified against each:
(1)
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
Chennai City Police Gaming Rules, 1949
The prospectus. - The names of the stewards of the race club, number of meetings, scale of entry fees, summary of
races, summary of prizes, stable rules, racing fixtures, distance for each race and general conditions of the races.
(2)
The entries. - The names and other particulars of the horses, their owners and trainers.
(3)
The handicaps. - The names of the horses running in the races for the particular day, their weights and distance of each
race.
(4)
The acceptances and scratchings. - Details about the races, the horses left in and finally accepted to run in the races,
with the time and order of racing.
(5)
The official race book or race book issued by or under the authority of the race club. - The names of stewards and
officials of the meeting, rates of daily and season tickets for all enclosures, rules of admission, rules and conditions of
betting particulars of the working of the electric totalizator for single, double or treble events, either for win or place,
notices about the races, names of horses, number time and distance of each race, double or treble events, the names of
the plate or cup, the time, the prize amount, the class of race, distance, names of horses, their owners, trainers, jockeys
with their colours and other particulars in respect of each race, the results of the previous meeting for the season with an
index of results, statistics of winnings by trainers and jockeys.
3.
In regard to horse races within the State of Tamil Nadu, any newspaper may contain the following information:-
A factual discussion of the prospects of each racing season as a whole before its commencement without reference to
betting on any event. The number of meetings, scale and rates of entry fees, summary of races, summary of stakes
money, racing fixtures, names of horses as contained in the Entries, Handicaps. Acceptances and Scratchings, spurts,
track and gallop notes of horses together with their timings, history of horses, number, time and distance of each race,
names of owners, and trainers of such horses, names of jockeys, with their colours for each event or double or treble
event, name of the plate or cup for which the horses are entered, handicapped and finally accepted, the number of the
double or treble events, a description of the facts relating to pedigree, form, handicap and track performance of the
candidates in each race before the event, and after the event, reports, photographs and results of the races and
dividends on totalizators, excluding references to betting.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2