
----- PAGE 1 -----
Tamil Nadu Jute Goods Control Act, 1949
Tamil Nadu Jute Goods Control Act, 1949
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/85039250/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of  Tamilnadu- Act
Tamil Nadu Jute Goods Control Act, 1949
TAMILNADU
India
Tamil Nadu Jute Goods Control Act, 1949
Act 28 of 1949
Published on 10 December 1949
Commenced on 10 December 1949
[This is the version of this document from 10 December 1949.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Tamil Nadu Jute Goods Control Act, 1949
(Tamil Nadu Act
28 of 1949
)
Received the assent of the Governor-General on the 10th December 1949 and first published in the Fort St. George
Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 14th December 1949.
An Act to provide for the regulation of the production, supply and distribution of jute goods in the [State of Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for 'Province of Madras' by paragraph 3(2) Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1970.]
.
Whereas it is necessary to provide for the regulation of the production, supply and distribution of jute goods in the [State
of Tamil Nadu]
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Tamil Nadu Jute Goods Control Act, 1949
[Substituted for 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.]
; It is hereby enacted as follows:-
1.
Short title, extent and commencement.
(1)
This Act may be called the [Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.]
Jute Goods Control Act, 1949.
(2)
It extends to the whole of the [State of Tamil Nadu]
[Substituted for 'State of Madras' by the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order, 1969, as amended by the Tamil Nadu
Adaptation of Laws (Second Amendment) Order, 1969.]
.
(3)
It shall come into force at once.
2.
Definitions.
- In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context,-
(a)
"Controller" means the Jute Controller appointed by the [State]
[Substituted for the word 'Provincial; by the Adaptation of Laws Order, 1950.]
Government under section 3;
(b)
"jute goods" includes all jute manufactures.
3.
Appointment of Controller.
- The [State]
[Substituted for the word 'Provincial' by the Adaptation of Laws Order, 1950.]
Government may, by notification in the [Fort St. George Gazette]
[Now the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette.]
, appoint any person to be the Jute Controller for the [State]
[Substituted for the word 'Province' by the Adaptation of Laws Order, 1950.]
.
4.
Powers of Controller to control production, supply and distribution of jute goods.
(1)
Subject to the control of the [State]
[Substituted for the word 'Provincial' by the Adaptation of Laws Order, 1950.]
Government, the Controller, so far as it appears to him to be necessary or expedient for regulating, maintaining or
increasing the production, supply or distribution of jute goods, may, by order in writing,-
(a)
require any person holding a stock of jute goods to sell the whole or a specified part thereof at such prices and to such
person (including the Central or [State]
[Substituted for the word 'Provincial' by the Adaptation of Laws Order, 1950.]
Government, or in such circumstances as may be specified in the order;
(b)
require any person engaged in the production of jute goods to comply with such directions as may be specified in the
order as to the type, quality or quantity of the jute goods to be produced or delivered by him, from time to time.
(2)
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Tamil Nadu Jute Goods Control Act, 1949
Any person to whom an order is issued under sub-section (1) shall comply with such order, notwithstanding anything
inconsistent therewith contained in any contract or other instrument to which he is a party.
5.
Penalties.
- If any person contravenes any order issued to him by the Controller under section 4, he shall be punishable with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years or with fine or with both.
6.
Offences by corporations.
- If the person contravening an order issued by the Controller under section 4 is a company or other body corporate,
every director, manager, secretary or other officer or agent thereof shall, unless he proves that the contravention took
place without his knowledge or that he exercised all due diligence to prevent such contravention, be deemed to be guilty
of such contravention.
7.
Cognizance of offences.
- No Court shall take cognizance of any offence punishable under this Act except on a report in writing of the facts
constituting such offence made by the Controller.
8.
Protection of action taken under the Act.
(1)
No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against any person (including the Controller) for anything which is
in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of any order issued under section 4.
(2)
No suit or other legal proceeding shall lie against the [State]
[Substituted for the word 'Provincial' by the Adaptation of Laws Order, 1950.]
Government, the Controller or any other person, in respect of any damage caused or likely to be caused by anything
which is in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of any order issued under section 4.
9.
Repeal and saving.
(1)
The Madras Jute Goods Control Ordinance, 1949 (Madras Ordinance X of 1949) is hereby repealed.
(2)
Notwithstanding such repeal, any notifications or orders issued, action taken, or thing done in the exercise of any power
conferred by or under the said Ordinance shall be deemed to have been issued, taken or done in the exercise of the
powers conferred by or under this Act as if this Act had come into force on the 5th day of November 1949.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3