
----- PAGE 1 -----
Levy of Fees for Service of Processes and Notices Rules
Levy of Fees for Service of Processes and Notices Rules
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/97030326/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of  Tamilnadu- Act
Levy of Fees for Service of Processes and Notices Rules
TAMILNADU
India
Levy of Fees for Service of Processes and Notices Rules
Act 654 of 1961
Published on 21 June 1961
Commenced on 21 June 1961
[This is the version of this document from 21 June 1961.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Levy of Fees for Service of Processes and Notices Rules
Published vide Notification No. SRO No. A-654 of 1961
Original Rules published in Part V of the Fort St. George Gazette, dated 21st June 1961 (Page 671).
SRO No. A-654 of 1961. - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (v) of sub-section (2) of section 116 of the
Tamil Nadu Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Act, 1959 (Tamil Nadu Act
22 of 1959
), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following Rules, namely:-
1.
These Rules may be called the Levy of Fees for Service of Processes and Notices Rules.
2.
Every applicant or appellant and every party who desires or is asked to take out notice to any respondent or other party
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
Levy of Fees for Service of Processes and Notices Rules
shall pay in cash such charges as may be fixed, from time to time, by the Government for preparation of the process and
postal expenses for the issue of registered notice to each respondent or other party to whom notice has to be issued.
Where notice has, owing to non-service or for any other reason to be issued again, the charge for re-service shall also
be paid at the same rate as for the service of the original notices.
3.
[
[Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 1874, Revenue, dated the 25th September, 1968.]
Every party to a proceeding, who desires to summon a person to attend and give evidence, or produce a document and
give evidence, shall, along with his application for issue of such summons, deposit in each such amount of allowances
for travelling and subsistence as the Presiding Officer may determine for the said person according to the scale of
allowance set out in the table below, and also the postal expenses for the issue of such summons by registered post.
Travelling and subsistence allowance for witnesses summoned to give evidence or to produce documents
Class of Witness
By rail
By road
By sea or Canal
Subsistence allowance per diem
I
1st Class fare
20 P. per k.m.
Actual expenses of passage
Rs. 5 to Rs. 20
II
II Class fare
12 P. per k.m.
-do-
Rs. 3 to Rs. 15
II
III Class fare
Actual bus fare or where there is no bus
service, six paise per k.m.
-do-
Rs. 2 to Rs. 10
Explanation I.- The Presiding Officer shall decide the class to which the witness belongs.
Explanation II.- The subsistence allowance for person summoned to produce documents shall be Re. 1 only.]
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2