
----- PAGE 1 -----
Furnishing of Security by Officers and Servants Rules
Furnishing of Security by Officers and Servants Rules
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/189630337/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of  Tamilnadu- Act
Furnishing of Security by Officers and Servants Rules
TAMILNADU
India
Furnishing of Security by Officers and Servants Rules
Act 1039 of 1961
Published on 26 September 1961
Commenced on 26 September 1961
[This is the version of this document from 26 September 1961.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Furnishing of Security by Officers and Servants Rules
Published vide Notification No. G. O. No. 4055, Revenue, dated 26th September 1961 - S.R.O. No. A-1039 of 1961
Original rules published in Part V of the Fort St. George Gazette, dated 25th October 1961.
G. O. No. 4055, Revenue, dated 26th September 1961 - S.R.O. No. A-1039 of 1961. - In exercise of the powers
conferred by clause (xvi) of sub-section (2) of section 116 of the Tamil Nadu Hindu Religious and Charitable
Endowments Act, 1959 (Tamil Nadu Act 22 of 1959), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following Rules,
namely:-
1.
Short title.
- These Rules may be called the Furnishing of Security by Officers and Servants Rules.
2.
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
Furnishing of Security by Officers and Servants Rules
Executive Officer to furnish security.
- Every Executive Officer appointed either temporarily in the place of any other Executive Officer or otherwise for a
religious institution under any of the provisions of the Act or in pursuance of any scheme settled or deemed to be settled
thereunder shall furnish security and execute a security bond in the name of the Governor of Tamil Nadu:
Provided that the Government may, on the recommendation of the Commissioner (i) exempt subject to such conditions
as the Government may fix, any person appointed or proposed to be appointed as such Executive Officer from
furnishing the whole or any part of the security, or (ii) permit any other person to furnish his immovable property as
security on behalf of the person appointed or proposed to be appointed as Executive Officer subject to the condition that
such other person executes jointly with the person appointed or proposed to be appointed as Executive Officer, a
security bond in the name of the Governor of Tamil Nadu.
3.
Amount of security to be furnished.
- The amount of security to be furnished by an Executive Officer shall be regulated by the income of the institution to
which he is appointed and be at the rate specified in the Appendix.
4.
Period within which security is to be furnished.
(1)
No Executive Officer holding office on the date of the coming into force of these rules, shall continue to hold office, if he
does not furnish security before the expiry of three months after these Rules have come into force.
(2)
No person first appointed to any post for which security has to be furnished shall assume office unless he furnishes the
security fixed for the post within fifteen days of the receipt of the order of appointment or unless he is exempted under
the proviso to rule 2.
(3)
When a person holding a post for which he has furnished security is appointed to another post for which the prescribed
security is higher than the amount of security already furnished by him or is appointed to an additional post for which
security has been fixed, he shall not continue in the new post if he does not, within three months of his assumption
thereof, furnish the required additional security.
5.
Government may extend the time for furnishing the security.
- Notwithstanding the provisions of rule 4, the Government may extend the time for furnishing the security or the
additional security.
6.
Form of security.
- The security to be furnished by a person may be in the form of-
(a)
cash; or
(b)
promissory notes of the State Government or any other State Government or the Union Government or Municipal
Debentures or Port Trust bonds; or
(c)
stock certificates of the State Government or any other State Government or the Union Government; or
(d)
Post Office Savings Bank Deposits; or
(e)
Post Office Cash Certificates and National Savings Certificates; or
(f)
Deposit receipt of [Madras Provincial Co-operative Bank]
[Now the Tamil Nadu State Co-operative Bank.]
, a Central Co-operative Bank, approved by the Registrar of Cooperative Societies, [Chennai]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).]
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
Furnishing of Security by Officers and Servants Rules
, for deposit of the funds of Local Boards and Municipalities or a Scheduled Bank as defined in the Reserve Bank of
India Act, 1934 (Central Act 2 of 1934); or
(g)
Unencumbered immovable property:
Provided that in the case of Executive Officers not belonging to the Scheduled Caste, the security to be accepted may
be in the form of fidelity bond:
Provided further that in the case of an Executive Officer belonging to the Schedules Caste, security shall be accepted in
the form of a fidelity bond, if such officer is unable to furnish security in any one of the forms referred to above:
Provided also that the security may, with the previous permission of the Commissioner, be furnished partly in one and
partly in another of the forms specified above.
7.
The provisions of the Tamil Nadu Financial Code to apply to security.
(1)
Where security is furnished in any of the forms mentioned in clauses (b) to (f) of rule 6, the provisions of the Tamil Nadu
Financial Code relating to the conditions subject to which such form of security shall be accepted, shall apply to such
security.
(2)
Where security is furnished in the form of cash, it shall be invested in any of the forms of securities mentioned in rule 6
as the person furnishing securities desires, and the interest derived from such investment shall be paid to him. No
interest shall become in any event payable till the security amount is actually invested.
Appendix
Class of Institutions
Annual income of the Institution
Amount of security in any form mentioned in
clauses (a) to (f) of rule 6 (Rs.)
Value of immovable property, if security is
offered under clause (g) of rule 6 (Rs.)
1
2
3
4
I
Over Rs. 1,50,000
4000
8000
II
From Rs. 75,001 to Rs. 1,50,000
2000
4000
III
From Rs. 30,001 to Rs.75,000
1000
2000
IV
From Rs. 10,001 to Rs. 30,000
500
1000
V
Less than Rs. 10,000
250
500
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
Furnishing of Security by Officers and Servants Rules
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4