
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Chennai Corporation Engineering Service Rules, 1969
The Chennai Corporation Engineering Service Rules, 1969
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/1256782/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of  Tamilnadu- Act
The Chennai Corporation Engineering Service Rules, 1969
TAMILNADU
India
The Chennai Corporation Engineering Service Rules, 1969
Rule THE-CHENNAI-CORPORATION-ENGINEERING-SERVICE-RULES-1969 of 1969
Published on 31 March 1969
Commenced on 31 March 1969
[This is the version of this document from 31 March 1969.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Chennai Corporation Engineering Service Rules, 1969
Published vide Notification G.O. Ms. No. 31, Rural Development and Local Administration, dated 31st March, 1969
1.
Short title.
- These rules may be called the [Chennai]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996.]
Corporation Engineering Service Rules, 1969.
2.
Constitution.
- The service shall consist of the following classes and categories of officers, namely : -
Class I-A
Page 1/8
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Chennai Corporation Engineering Service Rules, 1969
Category
1. Engineer
2. Electrical Engineer
3.
[Deleted]
4.
[Deleted]
Class II-B
Category
1. Mechanical Engineer
2. Building Engineer
[G. O. Ms. No. 66 Af. A.& W.S., dated 9.1.1987]
Class II
Category
1. Executive Engineer
2. Divisional Electrical Engineer
3. Assistant Executive Engineers (including Assistant Divisional Engineer (Electrical), Assistant Executive Engineer,
Town Planning, Drainage Superintendent and Store Officers) [G. O. Ms. No. 296, M. A. & W.S., dated 12-3-1987]
3. Appointment.
(a)
Appointment to the post specified in column (1) of the table below shall be made by the method specified in the
corresponding entry in column (2)thereof-
Name of the post
Method of Appointment
(1)
(2)
Class I-A
Category-1 Engineer
(a) By promotion from the category of Executive
Engineer in Class II of this Service; or
(b) By appointment of Municipal Engineer Grade 1
or Executive Engineer (Public Health) in the Department of Public
Health Engineering and Municipal Works on deputation.
Category-2 Electrical Engineer
(a) By promotion from the category of Divisional
Electrical Engineer in Class II of this Service;
[G. O. Ms. No. 296, M.A. &WS., dated
12-3-1987]
(b) By appointment of Divisional Electrical
Engineer in the Tamil Nadu State Electricity Board on deputation;
or
(c) By appointment of Electrical Engineer in the
Public Works Department on deputation; or
(d) By appointment of Electrical Inspector of
the Electrical Inspectorate on deputation.
Category-3
Deleted
Category-4
Deleted
Class I-B
Category-1 Mechanical Engineer
Page 2/8
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Chennai Corporation Engineering Service Rules, 1969
(a) By promotion from the category of Executive
Engineer in Class-II of this Service; or
(b) By appointment of Executive Engineer from
Government Department on deputation.
Category-2 Buildings Engineer
(a) By promotion from the category of Executive
Engineer in Class II of this Service; or
(b) By appointment of Executive Engineer from
Government Department on deputation.
[G. O. Ms. No. 66, MA., &W.S. dated
9.1.1987]
Class II
Category-1 Executive Engineer
(a) By promotion from the category of Assistant
Executive Engineer of this Service; or
(b) By appointment of Municipal Engineer Grade-I
or II or Executive Engineer or Assistant Engineer (Public Health)
in the Department of Public Health Engineering and Municipal
Works on deputation.
Category-2 Divisional Electrical Engineer
(a) By promotion from the category of Assistant
Divisional Engineer (Electrical) of this Service.
[G.O. Ms. No. 296, M. A. &W.S., dated
12-3-1987],
Category-3 Assistant Executive Engineer other
than Assistant Divisional Engineer (Electrical)
(a) By direct recruitment; or
(b) By promotion from the categories of Junior
Engineers and Assistant Engineers, and Head Surveyors in the
Corporation Engineering Subordinate Service;
(c) By appointment of Municipal Engineer Grade
II or III, or Assistant Engineer (Public Health) or Junior
Engineer, or Supervisor (Public Health) in the Department of
Public Health Engineering and Municipal Works on deputation.
Assistant Divisional Engineer (Electrical)
(a) By direct recruitments; or
(b) By promotion from the category of Junior
Engineers (Electrical) and Assistant Engineers (Electrical) in
the Corporation Engineering Subordinate Service; or
(c) By appointment of Assistant Engineers in the
Tamil Nadu Electricity Board on deputation; or
(d) By appointment of Assistant Engineers
(Electrical) in the Public Works Department on deputation; or
(e) By appointment of Assistant Electrical
Inspector of the Electrical Inspectorate on deputation.
(b)
Such number of substantive vacancies among Assistant Executive Engineers in the Corporation as the State
Government may, from time to time, determine shall be filled or reserved to be filled by direct recruitment.
4. Qualifications.
- No person shall be eligible for appointment to any of the posts specified in column (1) of the Table below by the
method specified in the corresponding entries in column (2) of that Table, unless he possess the qualifications specified
Page 3/8
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Chennai Corporation Engineering Service Rules, 1969
in the corresponding entries in column (3) thereof.
Class/ category and name of post
Method of appointment
Qualifications
(1)
(2)
(3)
Class I-A
Category-1 Engineer
By promotion or by appointment on deputation
from a Service under the State Government
(i) B. E. Degree of
any University or Institution recognised by the University Grants
Commission for the purposes of its grant with practical
experience in buildings and road for at least 8 years; and
(ii) Must have put in a service of not  less
than six years as Executive Engineer in Corporation Municipal
Engineer Grade I or Executive  Engineer (Public Health).
Category-2 Electrical Engineer
By promotion or by appointment on deputation
(i) Degree in
Electrical Engineering   of any University or Institution
recognised by the University Grants  Commission for the purposes
of its  grant; and
(ii) A minimum of seven years  approved
experience in Electrical  Engineering of which not less than
four years shall have been in the  construction, operation and
maintenance of high tension  sub-stations and underground
distribution systems and not less  than two years experience in
responsible and administrative  charge.
Class I-B
Category-1 Mechanical Engineer
Promotion or by appointment on deputation
(i) Degree in
Mechanical or Civil   Engineering granted by any   University or
Institution, recognised  by the University Grants  Commission for
the purpose of its  grant; and
(ii) Must have put in a service of not  less
than six years as Executive  Engineers in Corporation of
'Chennai or Executive Engineer in  Government service.
Category-2 Buildings Engineer
Promotion or by appointment on deputation
(i) Degree of
Mechanical or Civil   Engineering granted by any   University or
Institution recognised  by the University Grants  Commission for
purpose of its  grant; and
(ii) Must have put in a service of not  less
than six years as Executive  Engineers in Corporation of
'Chennai or Executive Engineer in  Government service.
Class-II
Category-1 Executive Engineer
Page 4/8
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Chennai Corporation Engineering Service Rules, 1969
Promotion or by (i) appointment on deputation
(a) Must possess B.
E. Degree   (Civil or Mechanical) of any   University or
Institution recognised  by the University Grants  Commission for
the purposes of its  grant; or
(b) Must possess the
Diploma in  Civil or Mechanical Engineering of  the State Board
of Technical  Education and Training or any  other qualification
considered  equivalent thereto:
Provided that a
person possessing  the Diploma in Engineering of the  State Board
of Technical Education  and Training should have shown
exceptional merit as Assistant  Engineer; and
(ii) Must have put in a service of not less than
five years as Assistant Executive Engineer in Corporation or
Municipal Engineer Grade II or Assistant Engineer (Public Healthy
or should have put in a service of net less than one year as
Municipal Engineer Grade I or Executive Engineer (Public Health).
Category-2 Divisional Electrical Engineer
By promotion
Must have put in a service of not less than five
years in the post of Assistant Divisional Engineer (Electrical)
Category-3 Assistant Executive Engineer other
than Assistant Divisional Engineer (Electrical)
By direct recruitment
(i) Must not have
completed/or will not completed 30 years of age on the 1st day of
July of the year in which the recruitment is made; and
(ii) Must possess the B.E. Degree (Civil or
Mechanical) of any University or Institution recognised by the
University Grants Commission for the purposes of its grant:
Provided that in the case of candidates possessing the
post-graduate degree in Engineering from any Indian University,
the age limit shall be increased by two years.
By promotion or appointment on deputation from
service under the State Government.
(i) (a) B. E. Degree
(Civil or Mechanical) of any University or Institution recognised
by the University Grants Commission for the purposes of its grant
or any other qualification considered equivalent thereto;
(b) Must have served
as Assistant Engineer in the Corporation Engineering Subordinate
Service, Municipal Engineer, Grade II, unior Engineer, Grade II,
Junior Engineer or Supervisor (Public Health) for a period of not
less than five years on duty:
Provided that a
person who  acquires an Engineering Degree or  its equivalent
during his service as  Junior Engineer in the Corporation
Engineering Subordinate Service  will be eligible for appointment
as  Assistant Executive Engineer if he  has put in three years of
service in  the Corporation Engineering  Subordinate Service
Page 5/8
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Chennai Corporation Engineering Service Rules, 1969
after getting  the Engineering Degree or its  equivalent. The
person so acquiring  the Engineering Degree or its  equivalent
will be placed  immediately below the person  holding the post of
Assistant  Engineer on the date of acquiring  the above
qualification; or
(c) Municipal
Engineer Grade II or  Assistant Engineer (Public Health);  or
(d) Diploma in Civil
or Mechanical  Engineering of the State Board of  Technical
Education and Training  or any other qualifications  considered
equivalent thereto:
Provided that
Draftsman,  Oversears and Surveyors of the  Corporation
Engineering  Subordinate Service promoted as  Junior Engineer in
the same service;  Head Surveyors and Head  Draftsman or the
Craftsman of the  Corporation Engineering  Subordinate Service
Municipal  Engineer Grade III or Supervisor  (Public Health)
possessing the  qualification referred to in item (d)  above
shall be eligible for  appointment as Assistant Executive
Engineers only, if they have put in a  total service of not less
than 10 years  in one or more categories or as  Municipal
Engineer Grade III or as  Supervisor (Public Health) and
(ii) A Pass in the Account Test for  Public
Works Department Officers  and Subordinates.
Assistant Divisional Engineer (Electrical)
By direct recruitment
(1) Must not have
completed or will   not complete 30 years of age on the  1st day
of July of the year in which  the selection for appointment is
made.
(2) Must possess a
Degree in  Electrical Engineering of any  University or
Institution recognised  by the University Grants Commission  for
the purposes of its grant, and
(3) Must have had practical  experience in
factory, Workshop or  Electrical undertaking for a period  of not
less than three years.
By promotion or by appointment on deputation
(1) (a) A Degree in
Electrical  Engineering of any University or   Institution
recognised by the  University Grants Commission for  the purpose
of its grant or any other  qualification considered equivalent
thereto and in the case of  promotion, service as Assistant
Engineer, in the Corporation  Engineering Subordinate service for
a period not less than five years; or
(b) Diploma in
Electrical  Engineering of the State Board of  Technical
Education and Training  or any other qualifications  considered
equivalent thereto and a  minimum period of service and
experience of 15 years; or
(c) Subject to the
Page 6/8
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Chennai Corporation Engineering Service Rules, 1969
conditions  specified below, a pass in Section A i  and B of the
A.M.I.E. (Ind.)  Examination with Electrical  Engineering
(General) and any two '  of the following subjects under  Section
B as optional or additional  subjects: ---
(i) Electric supply
and power  distribution
(ii) Electrical
Machinery
(iii) Electrical
Installation
(iv) Electrical
Measurements
(v) Thermodynamics
and Head  Engines (Steam and Internal  Combustion)
A. Should furnish
evidence of  having undergone practical training  in "Surveying"
for at least one year  or hold the Upper Subordinate or L.  C. E.
Diploma of the College of  Engineering.
B. Should have
secured a pass in  the intermediate examination of  any
University or Institution  recognised by the University  Grants
Commission for the  purposes of its grant or an  examination
recognised by the  Government as equivalent  thereto; and
C. Should have had
practical  experience for a period of not less  than 6 years
which should include  at least 4 years practical experience
after passing Section A and B of the  A. M. I. E. (Ind.)
Examination; and
2. A pass in the Account Test for  Public Works
Department Officers  and Subordinates.
5.
Probation.
- A person appointed to any category under any class, either by promotion or by direct recruitment shall, from the date
on which he joins duty, be on probation for a total period of two years on duty within a continuous period of three years.
6.
Reservation of appointments.
- The rule of reservation of appointments to the Backward Classes, the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in rule
22 of the General Rules for the State and Subordinate Services for the time being in force shall apply to appointment to
the service by direct recruitment.
7.
Liability to serve in Defence Services.
- Every person appointed as Assistant Executive Engineer by direct recruitment on or after the 14th April 1965 shall,
during his service including service in any higher category to which he may be appointed, be liable to serve for a
minimum period of four years (including the period spent on training) in the Armed Forces or on works relating to
defence effort anywhere in India or abroad, if so required. The liability to service in the Armed Forces shall be limited to
the first ten years of service from the date of his first appointment as Assistant Engineer and shall not ordinarily apply to
a candidate who is above 40 years of age.
8.
Military duty in connection with the National Emergency.
- Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules or any other rules, the following provisions shall apply to the
members of the service who have deputed for military duty in connection with the National Emergency proclaimed on
Page 7/8
----- PAGE 8 -----
The Chennai Corporation Engineering Service Rules, 1969
the 26th October of 1962 and to those non-service persons who joined the Armed Forces during the Emergency and are
recruited to this service against the vacancies reserved for candidates who have rendered military service.
(i)
Fifty per cent of the substantive vacancies which arose after the declaration of the National Emergency and which may
arise hereafter during the continuance of the emergency in the category of Assistant Executive Engineers shall be
reserved to be filled in by those deputed for military duty and non-service persons who have rendered military service in
connection with the National Emergency and are recruited as Assistant Executive Engineers on discharge from the
Armed Forces in the following order of priority, namely:-
(i)
Members of the Services;
(ii)
Persons employed temporarily;
(iii)
Persons who were not in Corporation Service.
(ii)
Any period of "Field Service" rendered by a member of the service who has been deputed for military service shall be for
the purpose of probation and increment count as duty in the post borne on the service.
Explanation. - For purposes of this clause "Field Service" shall mean military duty in any area declared as "Field Area"
by the Defence Department of the Government of India.
9.
Test.
- Assistant Executive Engineers recruited direct shall pass the Account Test for Public Works Department Officers and
Subordinates within four years from the date of appointment.
The penalty for failure to pass the test is stoppage of increments, but the stoppage will not operate to postpone future
increments after the test has been passed.
10.
Training.
- A Probationary Assistant Executive Engineer recruited directly shall during the first year of his probation undergo
training in works and accounts for one year or such shorter period as may be fixed in each individual case. His pay
during the period of training shall be Rs. 225/- a month and the period shall not count for increments in the time scale of
pay for Assistant Executive Engineers.
11.
Pay.
- The holders of the posts in this service shall be paid a monthly pay in the scale of pay that may be determined by the
State Government, from time to time, from the Municipal Fund.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 8/8