
----- PAGE 1 -----
Tamil Nadu Municipal Educational Service Rules, 1970
Tamil Nadu Municipal Educational Service Rules, 1970
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/7202493/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of  Tamilnadu- Act
Tamil Nadu Municipal Educational Service Rules, 1970
TAMILNADU
India
Tamil Nadu Municipal Educational Service Rules, 1970
Rule TAMIL-NADU-MUNICIPAL-EDUCATIONAL-SERVICE-RULES-1970 of 1970
Published on 1 January 1970
Commenced on 1 January 1970
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 1970.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Tamil Nadu Municipal Educational Service Rules, 1970
1.
These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Municipal Educational Service Rules, 1970.
2.
Constitution.
- The service shall consist of the following classes and categories: -
Class I
Municipal Educational Officers.
Class II
Headmaster/Headmistress of High School Grade-I.
(1000  pupils and above)
Page 1/11
----- PAGE 2 -----
Tamil Nadu Municipal Educational Service Rules, 1970
Class II (A)
Headmaster/Headmistress of High School Grade-11.
(Below 1000 Pupils)
Class III
Category 1
Engineering Instructors.
Category 2
Assistant Engineering Instructors.
Class IV
Category 1
Assistants (B.T.) of High School.
Category 2
Supervisors (B.T.) of Elementary.
Category 3
Headmaster (B.T.) of Upper Primary Schools.
Category 4
Tamil Pandit. Grade I.
Category 5
Physical Director.
Class IV(A)
Agricultural Instructor
Class IV (B)
Secretarial Assistant.
Class IV (C)
Instructor in Music and Dancing
Class IV (D)
Music teachers
Class IV (E)
Instructor in Drawing and Painting or Arts
Master.
Class IV (F)
Assistant in Domestic Science
Class IV (G)
Textile Technology-Senior Instructor in Weaving.
Class V:
Category 1
Commercial Instructors in High Schools
Category 2
Supervisors of Elementary Schools
Category 3
Headmasters of Elementary Schools
Category 4
Secondary Grade Teachers
Category 5
Tamil Pandit, Grade II
Category 6
Physical Education Teachers, Grade I
Category 7
Physical Education Teachers, Grade II
Category 8
Weaving Instructor (Senior)
Page 2/11
----- PAGE 3 -----
Tamil Nadu Municipal Educational Service Rules, 1970
Category 9
Weaving Instructor (Junior)
Category 10
Drawing Master.
Category 11
Sewing Mistress in High Schools
Category 12
Music Mistress in High Schools
Category 13
Wood work Craft Instructor in High School
Category 14
Binding Instructor
Category 15
Tailoring Instructor
Category 16
Arts Instructor
Category 17
Junior Instructor in Weaving
Category 18
Junior Instructor in Printing
Class VI
Senior Mechanic
3.
Method of Appointment.
- Appointment to the classes and categories mentioned in column (1) of the Table below shall be made by the method
specified in the corresponding entries in column (2) thereof: -
Class and Category
Method of Appointment
(1)
(2)
Class I
Direct recruitment or promotion from Class II
Class II
Promotion from Class II (A)
Class 11(A)
Promotion form categories 1 to 4 of Class IV and Class IV  (B)
Class III:
Category 1
Direct recruitment
Category 2
Direct recruitment
Class IV:
Category 1 Category 2
Direct recruitment or promotion from the categories in  Class
V
Category 3
Category 4
One-third vacancies by direct recruitment and two-third
vacancies by promotion from categories 2 to 5 of Class V
Category 5
Direct recruitment or promotion from categories 6 and 7 of
Page 3/11
----- PAGE 4 -----
Tamil Nadu Municipal Educational Service Rules, 1970
Class V
Class IV (A)
Direct recruitment or promotion from categories 2 to 4 of
Class V
Class IV (B)
Direct recruitment or promotion from categories 2 to 4 of
Class V
Class IV (C)
Direct recruitment
Class IV (D)
Direct recruitment
Class IV (E)
Direct recruitment
Class IV (F)
Direct recruitment
Class IV (G)
Direct recruitment or promotion from category 17 of Class  V
Class V:
Category 1
Direct recruitment
Category 2
Promotion from categories 3 and 4
Category 3
Promotion from Category 4
Category 4
Direct recruitment
Categories 5 to 18
Direct recruitment
Class VI
Direct recruitment:
Provided that when sufficient number of candidates qualified for appointment by promotion is not available, the
appointing authority may with the concurrence of the State Government, resort to direct recruitment.
4.
Unit of appointment.
- For purposes of appointment, transfer, discharge for want of vacancies, reappointment and appointment as full
members of the service, the unit shall be as follows; -
Class
Unit
(1)
(2)
Class I, II and III
All the Municipalities in this State taken  together.
Classes IV to VI (including) Classes IV (A) to (G)
The Municipality concerned.
5.
Recruiting and appointing authority.
(a)
The recruiting authority in respect of the classes mentioned in column (1) below shall be those specified in the
corresponding entry in column (2) thereof: -
Class
Recruiting authority
Page 4/11
----- PAGE 5 -----
Tamil Nadu Municipal Educational Service Rules, 1970
(1)
(2)
Classes I, II and III
Selection Committee
Classes IV (including) Classes IV (A) to IV, (G), V and VI
Appointment Committee.
(b)
The appointing authority in respect of the classes mentioned in column (1) below shall be those specified in the
corresponding entry in column (2) thereof: -
Class
Recruiting authority
(1)
(2)
Classes I, II and III
Director of Municipal Administration
Classes IV to VI (Including) Classes IV(A), IV (G) C
The Municipal Commissioner concerned.
6.
Qualification.
- No person shall be eligible for appointment to the Classes and categories mentioned in column (1) of the table unless
he possesses the qualification specified in the corresponding entry in column (2) thereof: -
Classes and Categories
Qualification
(1)
(2)
Class I:
Direct recruitment. - A first class or second
class degree  of the M.A. or Honour's of any University
recognised by  the University Grants Commission for the purpose
of its  grant with subjects or languages as may be specified with
a minimum period of 2 years of service as B.T. Assistant in  a
recognised secondary School, Training School or as  Assistant
Professor in a Training college in Tamil Nadu.
Promotion. - Experience as Headmaster or
Headmistress  in a High School under a Municipal Council for a
period  of not less than 5 years.
Class II
1. A degree of B.A. and B.Ed, or B.T. or B.Sc.
and B.T. or  B.Ed of any University recognised by the University
Grants Commission for the purpose of its grant; and
2. Experience for a period of not less than five
years in  category 1 (Engineering Instructors) of Class III or in
either of categories 1,2 and 3 of Class IV and Class IV(B)
(Secretarial Assistant) or experience for a period of not less
than five years, after, acquiring B.T. qualification in  Category
4 in Class IV:
Provided that an Engineering Instructor should
possess a  degree in a language or a subject of any University
recognised by the University Grants Commission and a  degree in
teaching of a University of the State of Tamil  Nadu.
Class III
Page 5/11
----- PAGE 6 -----
Tamil Nadu Municipal Educational Service Rules, 1970
Categories 1 and 2(1) The degree of B.E.
(Mechanical) or  B.E. (Electrical) or
(2) L.M.E.or L.E.E. with not less than three
years  workshop experience or teaching experience in a
recognised institution after passing the diploma  examination; or
(3) B.Sc. (Physics Main and Electrical or
Mechanical  Engineering Subsidiary, with not less than three
years  workshop experience or teaching experience in a
recognised school; or
(4) B.Sc. (Physics main and Electrical or
Mechanical  Engineering subsidiary), B.T. with not less than two
years  workshop or teaching experience in a recognised school;
or
(5) Instructor with L.M.E.or L.E.E qualification
and  Instructors who are holders of B.Sc. degree with Physics
Main and Electrical or Mechanical Engineering as  Subsidary.
(6) Instructors who are holders of B.Sc. degree
with  Physics Main and Electrical Engineering as Subsidiary and
holders of B.T. degree.
Class IV
Should hold the degree of B.A or B.Sc, and B.T.
or B.Ed, of any University recongnised by the University Grants Commission for the purpose of its grant.
Category 1
Category 2
Category 3
Category 4
(a) A degree in Tamil language of the Madras,
Annamalai  or Madurai University;
A completed Secondary School-Leaving Certificate
and  title or Oriental learning conferred by the Madras or
Annamalai or Madurai University in Tamil and
(b) The B.T. or B.Ed, degree of the Madras
University or  the B.Ed, degree of the Annamalai University or
Madurai  University or a Trained Teachers' Certificate of the
Secondary Grade or a Senior Grade Basic Trained Teacher
Certificate or Successful completion of the Pandits  Training
course or Diploma in teaching awarded by the  Annamalai
University.
Category 5
(i) A degree of the Madras or Annamalai or
Madurai  University or any other University in India.
(ii) (a) A degree or diploma in Physical
Education of any  University in Tamil Nadu or its equivalent; or
(b) the Diploma awarded by the Y.M.C.A. college
of  Physical Education prior to 1949; or
(c) In the case of women, a diploma in Physical
Education  awarded by the Government.
Explanation.- Preference shall be given to the
persons  who, in addition to the above qualifications possess
B.T.  Degree of the Madras University or B.Ed. Degree of the
Annamalai or Madurai Kamaraj University.
Page 6/11
----- PAGE 7 -----
Tamil Nadu Municipal Educational Service Rules, 1970
Class IV-A
Should hold a degree of the B.Sc. in
Agriculture; provided  that when a person possessing that
qualification is not  available, a person possessing the higher
certificate in  Agriculture may be appointed.
Class IV-B
(i) Must possess a B.Com, degree and B.T.or
B.Ed., degree  of a University; or
(ii) B.Com. degree and Technical Teachers'
Certificate in  the subject concerned; or
(iii) Diploma in commerce (D.Com) and Technical
Teachers' certificate in the subject concerned issued by the
Commissioner for Government Examinations, Chennai:
Provided that candidates possessing
qualifications prescribed in clause (iii) shall be considered
only, when candidates possessing qualifications prescribed in
clauses (i) and (ii) are not available.
Class IV-C and D
(1) Graduate in Music or Diploma in Music; or
(2) Title holders of Sangeetha Siromani or
Sangeetha Bushanam with S.S.L.C. or Matriculation; or
(3) Dancing Diploma obtained after undergoing
the  prescribed course in dancing at Kalakshetra, Adyar
Class IV-E
Completed S.S.L.C. and II Class Diploma in
Drawing  granted by the College of Arts and Crafts, Madras, (or)
Government Diploma in Drawing
Class IV-F
B.Sc. (House Science with L.T. or B.T. Provided
that when  a person possessing the L.T or B.T. degree is not
available,  an untrained Graduate in Home Science.
Class IV-G
Licentiate in textile manufacture with two years
experience in Weaving in a recognised textile  manufacturing
concern; or
Supervisors' course of the Government Textile
Institute, Washer-manpet with three years experience in a
recognised weaving concern and the minimum general  educational
qualification.
Class V
Category 1
Technical Teachers' Certificate (Higher Grade in
Typewriting)
Category 2
Should possess an S.S.L.C. and Secondary Grade
Trained Teachers' Certificate.
Category 3
Category 4
Category 5
Oriental Title with Pandits or Secondary Grade
Training  for existing incumbents in service on the first
Page 7/11
----- PAGE 8 -----
Tamil Nadu Municipal Educational Service Rules, 1970
January,  1948, Oriental title only.
Categories 6 and 7
(1) Diploma in Physical Education or Higher
Grade  Certificate in Physical Education or
(2) Holders of Lower Grade Certificate in
Physical Education or holders of Certificate of Physical
Training after undergoing one year training in the Y.M.C.A.
College of Physical Education, Saida-pet, Madras, before  1937-38
or the special Certificate issued by the Secretary to
Commissioner for Government Examinations to Ex-Servicemen
trained as physical Training Instructors.
Categories 8 and 9
Form III passed or E.S.L.C. or its equivalent
with  successful completion of Artisan or Instructor's Course
Certificate of the Government Textile Institute and  Technical
Teacher's certificate; or Government Technical  Examination
(Lower Grade) Certificate and Technical  Teacher's Certificate;
or Bunayee or Khadi Pravesika  Course (one Year) of the All India
Spinner's Association,  Tiruppur, and Technical Teachers'
Certificate or E.S.L.C.  or equivalent with Government Technical
Teachers'  Certificate; completed S.S.L.C. with Weaving
Instructors'  Course certificate of Teachers' College, Saidapet,
or  completion of the Artisan Course or Instructor's Course
Certificate of the Government Textile Institute, Chennai  and
Technical Teacher's Certificate or completed S.S.L.C.  with
Bunayee or Khadi Pravesika Course (one year) of the  All India
spinners Association, Tiruppnr and Technical  Teacher's
Certificate; or completed S.S.L.C. with  Government Technical
Examination (Lower) and  Technical Teachers' Certificate.
Category 10
Form III passed or VIII Standard or E.S.L.C. or
equivalent  with Government Technical Examination (Higher) in
Free  hand Outline and Model Drawing and Technical  Teachers'
Certificate; or Form III passed or VIII Standard  or E.S.L.C. or
equivalent with Government Diploma in  Drawing and Technical
Teacher's Certificate; or S.S.L.C.  with Government technical
Examination (Higher Grade)  in Freehand Outline and Model Drawing
and Technical  Teachers' Certificate; or B.A. degree with Drawing
and  painting under Part III and Technical Teachers Certificate.
Category 11
Completed S.S.L.C. with Group certificate in
Needle work,  Dress Making and Technical Teachers' Certificate;
completed S.S.L.C. with Industrial School Certificate and
Technical Teachers Certificate or Form III passed or  E.S.L.C. or
equivalent with industrial School Certificate  and Technical
Teachers' Certificate or Group Certificate in  Needle work and
Dress Making and Technical Teacher's  Certificate.
Category 12
Form III passed or E.S.L.C. or equivalent with
Government Technical Examination (Higher) in Indian  Music and
Technical Teachers' Certificate or Teachers'  Certificate in
Page 8/11
----- PAGE 9 -----
Tamil Nadu Municipal Educational Service Rules, 1970
Indian Music awarded by the Commissioner  for Government
Examinations; or Form III passed or  E.S.L.C. or equivalent with
Sangeetha Bhaushana of the  Annamaliai University and Technical
Teachers' Certificate  or Form III Passed or E.S.L.C. or
equivalent with  Sangeetha Vidwan title of the Central Carnatic
Music  awarded by the Commissioner for Government  Examinations
and Technical Teachers' certificate or  S.S.L.C. completed with
Government Technical  Examination in India Music (Higher Grade)
and Technical  Teachers' Certificate or Certificate in Indian
Music  awarded by the Commissioner for Government  Examinations.
Category 13
Completed S.S.L.C. with Manual Training
Certificate or  Craft Instructor's Course Certificate of
Teachers' College,  Saidapet, or completed S.S.L.C. with
Industrial School  Certificate and Technical Teachers'
Certificate.
Categories 14 to 18
The qualifications prescribed under Rule 13 of
the Tamil Nadu Educational Rules.
Class VI
The qualifications prescribed under Rule 13 of
the Tamil  Nadu Educational Rules.
Explanations: - (1) A "recognised school" or "recognised secondary school" shall mean a school maintained by or
opened with the sanction of the Government of Tamil Nadu or for which recognition has been accorded under the Tamil
Nadu Educational Rules.
(2)
A "recognised institution" shall mean an institution by the Director of Technical Education of the Government of Tamil
Nadu.
(3)
A "recognised textile manufacturing concern" and a "recognised weaving concern" shall mean a textile manufacturing
concern or a weaving concern recognised by the Director of Technical Education of the Government of Tamil Nadu.
7.
Qualification in Tamil medium.
- Wherever the qualification "a degree in Arts or Science" is prescribed for appointment by direct recruitment "a degree
in Arts or Science" obtained through a study in Tamil medium shall be preferred:
Provided that in the absence of such qualified candidate, candidates who have studied in English medium shall be
considered for appointment:
Provided further that in respect of candidates of linguistic minorities, Government will relax, wherever necessary and
feasible, the rules regarding qualifications in Tamil medium.
8.
Procedure for recruitment.
- The selection committee or the Appointment Committee, as the case may be shall in the matter of recruitment, adopt
the following procedure: -
(1)
By Selection Committee: - (a) Direct Recruitment. - The Director of Municipal Administration shall estimate the number
of substantive vacancies likely to arise in each category for which recruitment has to be made by the Selection
committee. The estimate shall cover the calendar year for which the recruitment is made. In July of every year, the
Director of Municipal Administration shall advertise the number of such vacancies available and invite applications from
all eligible candidates and shall have the applications scrutinised by the Director of School Education. The applications
so scrutinised together with the estimate of vacancies shall be furnished to the selection Committee. The selection
Committee shall then select candidates on the basis of an interview only. The recruitment shall be made separately for
Page 9/11
----- PAGE 10 -----
Tamil Nadu Municipal Educational Service Rules, 1970
each category. The names of the candidates selected for appointment shall be arranged in the order of preference in
each list. The list thus prepared shall be the list of 'approved candidates' and furnished to the appointing authority.
(b)
Promotion. - The Director of Municipal Administration shall obtain from every Commissioner (i) the names of all eligible
candidates in the employment of the municipality concerned and (ii) the Commissioner's views on the suitability or
otherwise of the candidates for promotion. He shall then consult the Director of School Education and arrange their
names in the order of their seniority in the category from which promotion has to be made and also record his own views
on the fitness or otherwise of the candidates. He shall thereafter place the lists before the Selection Committee which
shall scrutinise them and draw the promotion panel for each category.
It shall be open to the Selection Committee to interview any candidate, if it has any doubt about his fitness for promotion
or the rank that should be assigned to him in the promotion panel. The Selection Committee shall, after it has drawn the
promotion panel in the manner aforesaid, send it to the appointing authority.
(2)
By Appointment Committee: - (a) Direct Recruitment. - The Commissioner of the municipality concerned shall call for a
list of eligible candidates from the local Employment Exchange, and shall, after having the list scrutinised by the Chief
Educational Officer concerned, place it before the Appointment Committee. The Committee shall, then select the
required number of candidates on the basis of an interview only. If sufficient number of candidates from the Employment
Exchange is not available, the Commissioner shall advertise the vacancies in the local dailies of the district and invite
applications from eligible candidates. The applications, after scrutiny by the Chief Educational Officer concerned, shall
be placed before the Appointment Committee. The Appointment Committee shall then select the candidates on the
basis of an interview only. If a selection is to be made from such of those persons who are employees of the Municipal
Council, the Employment Exchange need not be consulted.
The selection shall be made separately for each category. The names of the candidates selected for the appointment
shall be arranged in the order of preference in each list. The lists thus prepared shall be the lists of approved
candidates. The appointment Committee shall send the list to the Commissioner immediately after it is drawn up.
(b)
Promotion. - The Commissioner of the Municipality concerned shall prepare the names of all eligible candidates in the
employ of the Municipality for promotion. He shall, then, arrange the names of the candidates in the order of their
seniority in the category from which promotion has to be made and also record his own views on the fitness or otherwise
of the candidates. He shall, then, consult the Chief Educational Officer concerned and thereafter place the lists before
the Appointment Committee. The Appointment Committee will scrutinise the lists and draw the promotion panel under
each category.
It shall be open to the Appointment Committee to interview any candidate, if it has any doubt about his fitness for
promotion or the rank that should be assigned to him in the promotion panel.
The Appointment Committee shall, after it has drawn the promotion panel in the manner aforesaid, send it to the
appointing authority.
9.
Probation.
- Every person appointed to a class or category by direct recruitment shall, from the date on which he joins duty, be on
probation for a total period of two years on duty within a continuous period of three years.
10.
Reservation of appointment.
- The rule of reservation in General Rule 14 shall apply separately to each of the categories when appointments are
made by direct recruitment.
11.
Passing of Test.
- Every person appointed to Class II shall not be eligible to draw the second and subsequent increments (other than first
increment) in the time scale of pay applicable to him unless he passes a test as laid down in the Annexure to paragraph
31 of the Municipal Manual within the period of two years from the date of appointment. The ineligibility shall not have
the effect of postponing his future increments after he passes the said test:
Provided that in the cases of persons appointed as Class II prior to 14-2-1979, i.e., the date of publication of this rule in
Page 10/11
----- PAGE 11 -----
Tamil Nadu Municipal Educational Service Rules, 1970
the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette they shall not be eligible to draw the future increments unless they pass the above
test within a period of two years from the said date:
Provided further that the test need not be passed in the case of Headmasters/ shall not be eligible to draw the last four
increments in that scale [Head Mistresses who have completed the age of 45 years as on 14.2.1979; and person who
are appointed as Head Masters/Head Mistresses after they completed the age of 45 years on 14.2.1979.]
[Added by SRO-A 38/79 RD & LA, dated the 16th January 1974.]
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 11/11