
----- PAGE 1 -----
Tamil Nadu Municipal General Service Rules, 1970
Tamil Nadu Municipal General Service Rules, 1970
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/13276385/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of  Tamilnadu- Act
Tamil Nadu Municipal General Service Rules, 1970
TAMILNADU
India
Tamil Nadu Municipal General Service Rules, 1970
Rule TAMIL-NADU-MUNICIPAL-GENERAL-SERVICE-RULES-1970 of 1970
Published on 1 January 1970
Commenced on 1 January 1970
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 1970.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Tamil Nadu Municipal General Service Rules, 1970
Part 3 ? Special Rules - Section-1
These rules shall be called the Tamil Nadu Municipal General Service Rules, 1970.
1.
Constitution.
- The service shall consist of the following classes and categories, namely: -
CLASS I
Managers, Special Grade
CLASS I-A
Category 1
Managers, Selection Grade
Page 1/9
----- PAGE 2 -----
Tamil Nadu Municipal General Service Rules, 1970
Category 2
Revenue Officers, Special Grade
CLASS II
Category 1
Managers, I Grade Municipalities
Category 2
Accountants, Special and Selection Grade Municipalities
Category 3
Assistant Revenue Officers, Special Grade Municipalities
Category 4
Revenue Officers, Selection Grade Municipalities
CLASS III
Park Supervisors.
CLASS IV]
Category 1
Assistant Revenue Officers, Selection Grade Municipalities
Category 2
Assistant Accountants, Special and Selection Grade
Municipalities
Category 3
Managers, II and III Grade Municipalities
Category 4
Revenue Officers, I Grade Municipalities
Category 5
Accountants, I Grade Municipalities
CLASS V
Category 1
Head Clerks
Category 2
Accountants, II and III Grade Municipalities
Category 3
Assessors
Category 4
Assistants
Category 5
Market Superintendents
Category 6
Cashiers
Category 7
Store-keepers, I Grade
Category 8
Revenue Inspectors
CLASS VI
Radio Operator
CLASS VI-A
Park Superintendent, I Grade'
CLASS VII
Category 1
Junior Assistants
Category 2
Poor House Wardern
Page 2/9
----- PAGE 3 -----
Tamil Nadu Municipal General Service Rules, 1970
Category 3
Shroff
Category 4
Store Keepers, II Grade)
Category 5
Revenue Assistant, Grade I
CLASS VII-A
Typists including Steno-typists
CLASS VII-B
Category 1
Horticultural Assistants
Category 2
Park Superintendents, II Grade.
CLASS VII-C
Selection Grade Bill Collectors.
CLASS VIII
Butler
CLASS IX-
Category 1
Cinema Operator
Category 2
Revenue Assistant-Grade II
CLASS X
Category 1
Record Clerk
Category 2
Telephone Operator.
2.
Inter-changeability of categories.
- Every category in each of the following Classes, namely, Classes I-A. II, IV, V, VII, VII-B [***]
[The figure IX was omitted by SROA No. 159/81, RD&LA, dated the 25th April 1981.]
and X mentioned in rule 1 shall be interchangeable with the other category or categories, as the case may be, in the
same Class.
3.
Methods of Appointment.
(a)
(i)
Appointment to the following classes and categories shall be made by direct recruitment: -
CLASS VI
Radio Operators
Omitted
CLASS VII-B
Category 1
Horticultural Assistant
Category 2
Park Superintendents, II Grade
CLASS VII
Omitted
Class IX - Category 1
Cinema Operator
Class X - Category 2
Page 3/9
----- PAGE 4 -----
Tamil Nadu Municipal General Service Rules, 1970
Telephone Operator
(ii)
A person who has been appointed to Class VII-A and has completed his probation satisfactorily in that Class shall be
eligible to be transferred and appointed to any categories in Class VII.
(iii)
A person who has been appointed to any of the categories in Class VII and has satisfactorily completed his probation in
that category shall be eligible to be transferred and appointed to Class VII-A.
(b)
Appointment to the posts mentioned in column (1) of the Table below shall be made by promotion from the holder of the
posts mentioned in the corresponding entries in column (2) thereof:
Post
Categories
(1)
(2)
Class I - Managers, Special Grade
From the categories in Class I-A
Class I-A
Category 1 - Managers, Selection Grade
From the categories in Class II
Category 2 - Revenue Officers, Special Grade
Categories in Class II
Class II
Category 1- Managers, I Grade Municipalities
From the categories in Class V
2. Accountants, Special and Selection Grade
Municipalities
3. Assistants Revenue Officers, Special  Grade
Municipalities
4. Revenue Officers, Selection Grade
Municipalities
From the categories in Class V
Class III Park Supervisors
From Class VI-A
Class IV
Category 1. Assistant Revenue Officers,
Selection grade Municipalities
2. Assistant Accountants, Special and Selection
grade Municipalities
From the categories in Class V
3. Managers, II and III Grade  Municipalities
4. Revenue Officer, I Grade Municipalities
5. Accountants, I Grade Municipalities]
Class V
Category 1 - Head clerks
2. Accountants, II and III Grade Municipalities
From the categories in Classes VII and
3. Assessors
4. Assistants
5. Market Superintendent
6. Cashiers
7. Storekeeper, I Grade
Page 4/9
----- PAGE 5 -----
Tamil Nadu Municipal General Service Rules, 1970
Class VI-A Park Superintendent-I Grade
From the categories in Class VII-B
(c)
(i)
Appointment to the posts mentioned in column (1) of the Table below shall be made by the methods specified in column
(2) thereof: -
Class VII
Category 1-Junior Assistants
By direct recruitment or by promotion  from the Category of
Record Clerk and  Revenue Assistant, Grade II.
Category 2-Poor house Warden
Category 3-Shroff
Category 4-Store Keeper, Grade II
By direct recruitment or by promotion  from the Category of
Revenue Assistant,  Grade II and Record Clerk.
Category 5-Revenue Assistant, Grade I.]
Class VIIA
Typist including Steno-Typist
Class VII-C Selection Grade Bill Collector
From the category of Bill Collector.  Provided that when there
is a paucity of  candidates qualified for appointment by
promotion, the appointing authority  may, with the concurrence of
the State  Government and the Director of  Municipal
Administration in the case of  Selection Grade Bill Collector,
resort to  direct recruitment.
Class IX-Category 2-Revenue Assistant,Grade II
By direct recruitment or by recruitment   by transfer from the
Last Grade Service
Class X - Category 1: Record Clerk
(ii)
[ Appointment by direct recruitment and by promotion to Class VII shall be made in the ratio of 2:1 and appointment by
direct recruitment and by recruitment and by recruitment by transfer to Category 2 of Class IX and Category 1 of Class X
shall be made in the ratio of 3:1. If sufficient number of candidates are not available for promotion or by recruitment by
transfer, the vacancies shall be filled by direct recruitment.]
[Substituted by G.O.Ms. No. 222, MA6WS (ME-2), dated 30th September 1999.]
4.
Authorities competent to recruit candidates and to make appointment.
(a)
The recruiting authority in respect of the classes mentioned in column (1) below shall be those specified in the
corresponding entry in column (2) thereof:
Classes
Recruiting Authority
(1)
(2)
Classes I, I-A, II, III, IV, V and VI-A
The Selection Committee
Classes VI, VII, VII-A, VII-B, VII-C, VIII,IX and X
The Appointment Committee
(b)
The appointing authority in respect of the classes mentioned in column (1) below shall be those specified in the
corresponding entry in column (2) thereof: -
Page 5/9
----- PAGE 6 -----
Tamil Nadu Municipal General Service Rules, 1970
Classes
Appointing Authority
(1)
(2)
Classes I, I-A, II, III, IV, V and VI-A
The Director of Municipal Administration
Classes VI, VII, VII-A, VII-B, VII-C, VIII, IX and X
The Commissioner
5.
Qualifications (a) General.
- No person shall be appointed to any category in any class unless he possesses the minimum general educational
qualification: -
[Provided that a person who has completed S.S.L.C. shall be appointed by direct recruitment to category 2 of Class IX
and category 1 of the Class X and a person who has passed VIII Standard in a recognised school shall be appointed by
recruitment by transfer to category 2 of Class IX category 1 of Class X.]
[Proviso was substituted by G.O.Ms. No. 222, MA&WS (ME-2), dated 30th September 1999.]
Explanation. - A "recognised school" means a school maintained by or opened with the sanction of the Government of
Tamil Nadu or to which recognition has been accorded by the Director of School Education under the Education Rules
of the State.
(B)
Special. - (i) No person shall be appointed to any of the categories in Class V or to any other higher class or category
unless he has passed the Account Test for local bodies or the Panchayat Developmental Account Test Papers III and IV
or the Departmental Test for officers of the panchayat Development Department or the Account Test for Subordinate
Officers-Part I.
(ii)
[ No person shall be appointed as a Typist in Class VII-A, unless he has passed the Government Technical
Examinations in Typewriting in English by the Higher Grade and in Tamil by the Lower Grade. A person who has not
passed the Government Technical Examination in Typewriting in Tamil by the Lower Grade, if appointed, shall pass the
said examination during the period of probation:]
[Substituted by SRO-A 225P9, RD & LA, dated 21st July 1979.]
Provided that if a person who has passed the Government Technical Examination in Typewriting in English by the
Higher Grade is not available, a person who has passed the said examination by the Lower Grade, he shall pass the
examination during the period of probation.
(iii)
No person shall be appointed as a Steno-Typist unless he has, in addition to the qualification prescribed for Typists,
passed the Government Technical Examination in shorthand by the Lower Grade maybe appointed.
(iv)
No person shall be appointed to the Classes or categories of posts mentioned in column (1) of the Table below unless
he possesses the qualifications mentioned in the corresponding entries in column (2) thereof: -
Posts
Qualification
(1)
(2)
Class VI- Radio Operators
(i) Must be a holder of an Instruments Mechanical  training
certificate issued by the Industrial  Training Institute at
Kakinada or the certificate  issued by the Industrial Training
Institute at  Thyagaraya Nagar or the certificate issued by an
Industrial Training Institute run by the  Government of India,
and
(ii) Must have a suitable voice for making  announcement
Page 6/9
----- PAGE 7 -----
Tamil Nadu Municipal General Service Rules, 1970
through the mike over the system:  Provided that preference shall
be given to  candidates with I.S.L.C. qualification and
practical experience in servicing of sets and P. A.  system in
any approved firm or Institution.
Class VII-B Horticultural Assistant, and Park
Superintendent-II
(i) Must possess a completed S.S.L.C.; (ii) Must  hold a
certificate Grade of proficiency in  Horticulture; and (iii) must
have acquired  training for not less than one year in
horticulture  including ornamental gardening under the
Agricultural Department of the Government of  Tamil Nadu or
Should be a Fieldman in the Tamil Nadu  Agricultural
Subordinate Service with training for  not less than one year in
the Departmental  Certificate course conducted by the
Agricultural  Department of the Government of Tamil Nadu.
Class VIII- Butler
Must have passed III Form or VIII Standard and  must have
experience in cooking meals for 2  years.
Class IX- Category 1-Cinema operator
(i) Must have passed the S.S.L.C. or an equivalent
examination, (ii) Must?have passed the cinema  operator
Examination conducted by the  Government Board of Examiners, and
(iii) Must  have practical experience in radio mechanism for  a
period of not less than one year.
Class X- Category 2 Telephone operator
(i) Must possess a completed S.S.L.C. and (ii)  Must have
acquired experience of 6 months in  operating PBX Telephone.
6.
Age.
- No person shall be appointed to any class or category in the service by direct recruitment, if he has not completed or
will complete [thirty years]
[Substituted for the word '28' by G. O. Ms. No. 222, MA 6WS (ME-2), dated 30th September 1999.]
of age on the first day of July of the year in which the recruitment is made:
Provided that the candidate belonging to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes shall be appointed to any class or
category in the service by direct recruitment if he has not completed [thirty-five years]
[Substituted for the word '33' by G. O. Ms. No. 222, MA &WS (ME-2), dated 30th September 1999.]
of age on the said date.
7.
Unit of appointment.
- For the purposes of appointment, discharge for want of vacancies, reappointment and appointment as full members,
the unit shall be as follows: -
Class or category
Unit
(1)
(2)
1. all the categories in Classes I, All the
Municipalities in the I-A and II State  taken together.
2. Class III, and all categories in classes IV,
and VI-A.
The following groups each constitute a  separate
unit:Group 1: All the Municipalities in 1.  Since have become a
Page 7/9
----- PAGE 8 -----
Tamil Nadu Municipal General Service Rules, 1970
Municipal Corporation (Tirunelveli),  Kanayakumari and
Ramanathapuram  districts taken together.Group II: All the
Municipalities in 1.  Since have become a  Municipal Corporation
Madurai and  Tiruchirapalli districts taken together.Group III:
All the Municipalities in  Thanjavur and South Arcot  Districts
taken together.Group IV: All the Municipalities in
Chengalpattu, North Arcot  and Dharmapuri districts taken
together.Group V: All the Municipalities in 1.  Since have
become a Municipal  Corporation (Salem, Coimbatore) and the
Nilgiris Districts taken together.
3. All the categories in classes VI, VII, VII-A,
VII-B VII-C. VIII, IX and X.
The Municipalities concerned.
8.
[ Probation.
[Substituted by G.O. Ms. 554, RD & LA, dated the 13th April 1983.]
(a)
Every person appointed to a class or category by direct recruitment shall, from the date on which he joins duty, be on
probation for a total period of two years on duty within a continuous period of three years.]
(b)
Every person appointed to a class or category by recruitment by transfer shall, from the date on which he joins duty, be
on probation for a total period of two years on duty within a continuous period of three years, if the responsibilities of the
post to which he is appointed are distinctly of a higher order.
9.
Procedure for recruitment.
- The following procedure shall be followed by the Selection and Appointment Committees in the matter of recruitment.
(1)
For Promotion by Selection Committee: - (a) The Director of Municipal.Administration shall obtain from every
Commissioner (i) the names of all eligible candidates in the employment of the Municipality concerned, and (ii) the
Commissioner's views on the suitability or otherwise of the candidates for promotion. He shall, then, arrange their names
in the order of the seniority in the class from which promotion has to be made and also record his own views on the
fitness or otherwise of the candidates. He shall, thereafter, place the lists before the selection committee which shall
scrutinise them and draw the promotion panel for each class.
(b)
It shall be open to the selection committee to interview any candidate, if it considers it necessary to adjudge the fitness
for promotion or the rank that should be assigned to him in the promotion panel.
(c)
The selection committee shall, after it has drawn the promotion panel in the manner aforesaid, send it to the appointing
authority,
(2)
For direct recruitment by the Appointment Committee. - The Commissioner of the Municipality concerned shall call for a
list of eligible candidates from the local Employment Exchange and place the list before the appointment committee. The
committee shall select the required number of candidates on the basis of an interview only. If sufficient number of
candidates from the Employment Exchange is not available, the Commissioner shall advertise the vacancies in the local
dailies of the district and invite applications from eligible candidates and compile them. The application so compiled shall
be placed before the appointment committee. The appointment committee shall, then, select the candidates on the basis
of an interview only. If selection is to be made from such of those persons who are employees of Municipal Councils, the
Employment Exchange need not be consulted. The selections shall be made separately for each class. The names of
the candidates selected for appointment shall be arranged in the order of preference in each list. The lists thus prepared
shall be the lists of approved candidates. The appointment committee shall send such lists to the Commissioner
immediately after they are drawn up.
Page 8/9
----- PAGE 9 -----
Tamil Nadu Municipal General Service Rules, 1970
3. For promotion or by transfer by the Appointment Committee. - The Commissioner of the Municipality concerned shall
prepare the names of all eligible candidates in the employ of the Municipality for promotion or transfer. He shall, then,
arrange the names of the candidates in the order of their seniority in the category from which promotion or transfer has
to be made and also record his own views on the fitness or otherwise of the candidates. The Appointment Committee
shall scrutinise the lists and draw the panel for each category.
It shall be open to Appointment Committee to interview any candidate, if it entertains any doubt about the fitness of the
candidate for promotion or the rank that should be assigned to the candidate in the promotion panel.
The Appointment committee shall, after it has drawn the panel in the manner aforesaid, send it to the appointing
authority.
10.
Reservation of Appointment.
- The rules of reservation in general rule 14 shall apply to recruitment to classes VI, VII, VII-B, VIII, IX, X.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 9/9