
----- PAGE 1 -----
Tamil Nadu Municipal Town Planning Service Rules, 1970
Tamil Nadu Municipal Town Planning Service Rules, 1970
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/135181442/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of  Tamilnadu- Act
Tamil Nadu Municipal Town Planning Service Rules, 1970
TAMILNADU
India
Tamil Nadu Municipal Town Planning Service Rules, 1970
Rule TAMIL-NADU-MUNICIPAL-TOWN-PLANNING-SERVICE-RULES-1970 of 1970
Published on 1 January 1970
Commenced on 1 January 1970
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 1970.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Tamil Nadu Municipal Town Planning Service Rules, 1970
1.
These rules shall be called the Tamil Nadu Municipal Town Planning Service Rules, 1970.
2.
[ Constitution.
[Substituted by G. O. Ms. No. 112, MA & Ws (ME-3), the dated 30th June 1998.]
- The service shall consist of the following categories of officers, namely: -
Category 1 - Senior Town Planning Officer.
Category 2 - Town Planning Officer, Grade I.
Category 3 - Town Planning Officer, Grade II.
Category 4 - Town Planning Inspector.
Page 1/6
----- PAGE 2 -----
Tamil Nadu Municipal Town Planning Service Rules, 1970
Category 5 - Town Planning Assistant Draughtsman.]
3.
Recruiting and appointing authority.
(a)
The recruiting authority in respect of the categories in column (1) below shall be those specified in the corresponding
entry in column (2) thereof: -
Category
Recruiting authority
(1)
(2)
1. Categories 1 to 3
The Selection Committee.
2. Categories 4 and 5
The Appointment Committee.
(b)
The appointing authority in respect of the categories in column. (1) below shall be those specified in the corresponding
entry in column (2) thereof: -
Category
Appointing authority
(1)
(2)
1 Categories 1 to 3
The Director of Municipal Administration
2 Categories 4 and 5
The Municipal Commissioner concerned.
4.
[ Method of appointment.
[Substituted by G. O.Ms. No. 112, MA & Ws (ME-3), the dated 30th June 1998.]
(a)
Appointment to the categories specified in column (1) of the Table shall be made by the methods specified in the
corresponding entries in column (2) thereof: -
Categories
Methods of appointment
(1)
(2)
1. Senior Town Planning Officer
Promotion from Category 2.
2. Town Planning Officer, Grade-I
Promotion from Category 3.
3. Town Planning Officer, Grade-II
(i) Direct recruitment; or
(ii) Promotion from Category 4.
4. Town Planning Inspector
(i) Direct recruitment; or
(ii) Promotion from Category 5.
5. Town Planning Assistant Draughtsman.
Direct recruitment
(b)
Appointment to each category by direct recruitment and by promotion shall be made in the ratio of 1:3.
(c)
One-fourth of all substantive vacancies arising in category 3 and one fourth of all long standing temporary vacancies
Page 2/6
----- PAGE 3 -----
Tamil Nadu Municipal Town Planning Service Rules, 1970
arising in the category shall be reserved to be filled by direct recruitment.
Explanation. - Any vacancy anticipated to be of two years duration shall be deemed to be a long standing vacancy within
the meaning of this rule.]
5.
Procedure for recruitment.
(1)
The following procedure shall be followed in the matter of recruitment of candidates by the Selection Committee: -
By direct recruitment. - The Director of Municipal Administration shall estimate the number of substantive vacancies
likely to arise in each category for which recruitment has to be made by the Selection Committee. The estimate shall
cover the calendar year for which the recruitment is made. In July of every year the Director of Municipal Administration
shall advertise the number of such vacancies available and invite application from all eligible candidates and compile
them. The applications so compiled together with the estimate of vacancies shall be furnished to the Selection
Committee which shall then select candidates on the basis of an interview only. The recruitment shall be made
separately for each category. The names of the candidates selected for appointment shall be arranged in the order of
preference in each list. The list thus prepared shall be the list of "approved candidates" and furnished to the appointing
authority.
By promotion. - The Director of Municipal Administration shall obtain from every Commissioner -
(i)
the names of all eligible candidates in the employ of the Municipality concerned; and
(ii)
the Commissioner's views on the suitability or otherwise of the candidates for promotion.
He shall then arrange their names in the order of their seniority in the category from which promotion is to be made and
also record his own views on the fitness or otherwise of the candidates. He shall, thereafter, place the list before the
Selection Committee which shall scrutinise them and approve the promotion panel for each category.
It shall be open to the Selection Committee to interview any candidates, if it has any doubt about his fitness for
promotion or the rank that should be assigned to him in the promotion panel.
The Selection Committee shall, after it has drawn the promotion panel in the manner aforesaid, send it to the appointing
authority.
(2)
The following procedure shall be followed in the matter of recruitment of candidates by the Appointment Committee of
the Municipal Council for appointment by direct recruitment -
The Commissioner of the Municipality concerned shall call for a list of eligible candidates from the local Employment
Exchange and shall, after having the list scrutinised by the Regional Deputy Director of Town Planning concerned place
the list before the Appointment Committee. The Committee shall, then, select the required number of candidates on the
basis of an interview only. If sufficient number of candidates from the Employment Exchange is not available, the
Commissioner shall advertise the vacancies in the local dailies of the district and invite application from eligible
candidates and compile them. The applications so complied shall be placed before the Appointment Committee. The
Appointment Committee shall then select the candidates on the basis of an interview only. If a selection is to be made
from such of those persons who are employees of the Municipal Council, the Employment Exchange need not be
consulted.
The selection shall be made separately for each category. The names of the candidates selected for appointment shall
be arranged in the order of preference in each list. The lists thus prepared shall be the lists of "approved candidates".
The Appointment Committee shall send the list to the Commissioner immediately after it is drawn up.
6.
[ Reservation of appointment.
[Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 1850, RDLA, dated the 2nd December 1982.]
- The rule of reservation of appointments (General Rule 14), shall apply to appointment to the service by direct
recruitment.]
7.
Minimum qualification.
- No person shall be appointed to any of the categories except category 5 unless he possesses the minimum general
Page 3/6
----- PAGE 4 -----
Tamil Nadu Municipal Town Planning Service Rules, 1970
educational qualification.
8.
Special technical qualification.
- No person shall be appointed to the posts specified in column (1) of the Table in the Annexure by the methods
specified in the corresponding entries in column (2) of the said Table, unless he possesses the qualifications specified in
the corresponding entries in column (3) thereof.
9.
Age.
- No person shall be eligible for appointment by direct recruitment, if he has completed or will complete thirty years of
age on the first day of July of the year in which the recruitment is made:
Provided that a candidate belonging to the Scheduled Castes or the Scheduled Tribes shall be appointed to any class or
category in the service by direct recruitment if he has not completed 31 years of age on the said date.
10.
Unit of appointment.
- For the purpose of appointment, transfer, discharge for want of vacancies, re-appointment and appointment as full
members of the service, the unit shall be as follows: -
Category
Unit
(1)
(2)
Categories 1, 2 and 3
All the Municipalities in the State taken
together.
Categories 4 and 5
Municipality concerned.
11.
[ Probation.
[Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 554, RDLA, dated the 13th April 1983.]
- Every person appointed to a category by direct recruitment shall, from the date on which he joins duty, be on probation
for a total period of 2 years on duty within a continuous period of 3 years.]
12.
Liability to serve in the Armed Forces.
- Every person who is a graduate in Engineering and who is appointed to category 1,2 or 3 shall, within the first ten
years of his service in the said category, be liable to serve for a minimum period of 4 years (including the period spent
on training) in the Armed Forces or work relating to the defence effort anywhere in India or abroad, if so required:
Provided that the liability to serve in the Armed Forces or on work relating to the defence efforts shall not ordinarily apply
to a person who is above 40 years of age at the time of his appointment to the category or who has already so served
during the period of his service in the Department.
Annexure
(See rule 8)
[Table]
[Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 112, MA & WS (ME-3), dated the 30th June 1998.]
Posts
Methods of recruitment
Qualification
(1)
(2)
(3)
Senior Town Planning Officer.
By promotion
Must have served as Town Planning Officer.
Page 4/6
----- PAGE 5 -----
Tamil Nadu Municipal Town Planning Service Rules, 1970
Grade-I.
Town Planning Officer, Grade-I
By promotion
Must have served as Town Planning Officer.
Grade-II.
Town Planning Officer, Grade-II
By Direct recruitment
(i) Must be an Associate Member of the Institute
of Town Planners India, or must possess a Degree or Diploma
recognised for eligibility to the Associated Membership of the
Institute of Town Planners; or
(ii) Must possess Bachelor of Architecture;
Degree of any University recognised by the University Grants
Commission for the purpose of its grant or Diploma in
Architecture recognised as equivalent to the National Diploma in
Architecture; or
(iii) Associate of Indian Institute of
Architects; or
(iv) A Degree in Civil Engineering of any
University recognised by the University  Grants Commission for
the purpose of its grant; or
(v) Must have passed Section A  and B of the
A.M.I.E (India) Examination in Civil Engineering Group; or
(vi) Must possess the Post Licentiate Diploma in
Town and Country Planning awarded by the Board of Technical
Education of the Government of Tamil Nadu; or
(vii) Must possess a Masters Degree in Town and
Country Planning awarded by the Anna University.
By promotion
(i) Must possess Licentiate in Civil Engineering
or Diploma in Civil Engineering of the Board of Technical
Education of the Government of Tamil Nadu or any higher
qualification recognised as equivalent thereto by the Government
of Tamil Nadu; and Must be worked in a regular capacity as Town
Planning Inspector for a period of not less than ten years in any
Municipality or any other local authority; or
(ii) Must be a Group certificate holder and have
worked in permanent or regular capacity as Town Planning
Inspector for a period of not less than fifteen years in any
Municipality, or any other local authority.
Town Planning Inspector.
By Direct recruitment or By promotion.
Licentiate in Civil Engineering or Diploma in
Civil Engineering of the Board of Technical Education of the
Government of Tamil Nadu or the Diploma in Architecture and
Interior Design awarded by the State Institute of Co-operative
Vocational Education, Tiruchirapalli or any other equivalent
qualification recognised by the Government of Tamil Nadu.
Town Planning Assistant Draughtsman
By Direct recruitment.
(i) Licentiate in Civil Engineering or Diploma
Page 5/6
----- PAGE 6 -----
Tamil Nadu Municipal Town Planning Service Rules, 1970
in Civil Engineering of the Board of Technical Education of the
Government of Tamil Nadu or the Diploma in Architecture and
Interior Design awarded by the State Institute of Cooperative
Vocational Education, Tiruchirapalli or any other equivalent
Diploma recognised by the Government of Tamil Nadu; or
(ii) A complete Secondary School Leaving
Certificate issued under the authority of the Government of Tamil
Nadu with pass in Engineering as a special subject in the
bifurcated courses in Secondary School; or
(iii) Pass in the Draughtsmanship (Civil) Course
under the revised syllabus introduced from July 1952 conducted by
the Government of India, Ministry of Labour with experience in
Town Planning for a period of not less than 2 years.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 6/6