
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Chennai Corporation Educational Service Rules, 1970
The Chennai Corporation Educational Service Rules, 1970
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/128572036/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of  Tamilnadu- Act
The Chennai Corporation Educational Service Rules, 1970
TAMILNADU
India
The Chennai Corporation Educational Service Rules, 1970
Rule THE-CHENNAI-CORPORATION-EDUCATIONAL-SERVICE-RULES-1970 of 1970
Published on 18 February 1970
Commenced on 18 February 1970
[This is the version of this document from 18 February 1970.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Chennai Corporation Educational Service Rules, 1970
Published vide Notification G.O. Ms. No. 248, Rural Development and Local Administration, dated 18th February, 1970
1.
Short title.
- These rules may be called the [Chennai]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu 28 of 1996).]
Corporation Educational Service Rules, 1970
2.
Constitution.
- This service shall consists of the following classes and categories of officers:-
Class-A
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Chennai Corporation Educational Service Rules, 1970
Educational Officer
Class II
Category 1 : Assistant Educational Officer
Category 2 : Head Master or Head Mistress (Grade I)
3.
Appointment.
- Appointment to the posts specified in column (1) of the Table below shall be made by methods specified in the
corresponding entries in column (2) thereof:-
Posts
Method of Recruitment
(1)
(2)
Class I-A
1. Educational Officer
(i) By promotion from
categories 1 aftd 2 in Class II; or
(ii) By appointment from among holders of the
posts of  District Educational Officers or Headmasters and
Headmistress in the Tamil Nadu Educational Service on  deputation
basis.
Class-II
Category-1 Assistant Educational Officer
(i) By promotion from
the categories of B.T. Supervisors,   B. T. Headmaster (Grade II)
and B. T. Assistants (Grade I  and II) in the Corporation
Educational Subordinate  Service; or
(ii) By appointment from, among the holders of
the posts  of Deputy Inspectors of Schools, School Assistants,
Headmasters and Headmistress Grades I and II in the  Tamil Nadu
Educational Subordinates Service on  deputation basis.
Category-2 Headmasters and Head mistress Grade I
(i) By promotion from
the Categories of B.T Supervisors,  Headmasters and B. T.
Headmasters (Grade II) and B. T.   Assistants (Grade I,
Headmistress Grade I and II) in the  Corporation Educational
Subordinate Service.
(ii) By appointment from among the holders of
the posts  of Deputy Inspectors of Schools, School Assistant
Headmaster or Headmistress Grade I and II in the Tamil  Nadu
Educational Subordinate Service on deputation  basis.
4.
Qualifications.
- No person shall be eligible for appointment to the posts specified in  column (1) of the Table below unless he possess
the qualification specified  in the corresponding entries in column (2) thereof:---
Posts
Qualifications
(1)
(2)
1. Educational Officer
(i) B. A. or B.Sc.
Degree of recognised University or  institution.
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Chennai Corporation Educational Service Rules, 1970
(ii) B.T. degree of a
recognised University or Institution.
(iii) Experience for
a period of not less than two years as  Assistant Educational
Officer in the Tamil Nadu  Educational Service appointed on
deputation basis; and
(iv) A pass in the Account Test for Subordinate
Officers  Parts I and II or any similar test prescribed by the
Government.
2. Assistant Educational Officer
(i) B.A. or B.Sc.
Degree of recognised University or   institution;
(ii) B.T. Degree of
recognised University or Institution; and
(iii) Experience for
a period of not less than five years as  B.T. Supervisor or
Headmistress (Grade II) in the  Corporation Educational
Subordinate  Service/ Headmaster or Headmistress or Deputy
Inspector  of Schools Grade I in Tamil Nadu Educational
Subordinate Service, or Experience for a period of not less  than
tweh e years as B.T. Assistant (Grades I and II) in the  Tamil
Nadu Educational Subordinate Service/ School  Assistants or Deputy
Inspector of Schools Grade II in the  Tamil Nadu Educational
Subordinate Service; and
(iv) A pass in the Account Test for Subordinate
Officers  Parts I and II or any similar test prescribed by the
Government.
Explanation. - For the purpose of this rule, a recognised University or Institution shall mean any University or Institution
recognised by the University Grants Commission for the purpose of its grant.
5.
Probation.
- A person appointed to any of the class or categories shall, from the date on which he joins duty, be on probation for a
total period of two years on duty within a continuous period of three years.
6.
Posting and transfers.
- Posting and transfers of officers included in Class I-A shall be made by the State Government and that of Officers
included in Class II by the Commissioner, Corporation of 'Chennai.
7.
Pay.
- There shall be paid to the holders of the posts specified in column (1) of the table below', from the Municipal Fund a
monthly pay calculated in the scale specified in the corresponding entries in column (2) thereof or in the scales of pay
that may be determined by the State Government, from time to time. (Scale of pay not provided since it is now new'
scale.)
8.
Conveyance allowance.
- There shall be paid to the holders of the post of Educational Officer and Assistant Educational Officer, conveyance
allowance at such rates subject to such conditions as may be determined by the State Government, from time to time.
The conveyance allowance paid to the holders of the posts shall be met from the Municipal Fund.
9.
Pension and Provident Fund.
(1)
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Chennai Corporation Educational Service Rules, 1970
Members of this service shall be governed by the Tamil Nadu Liberalised Pension Rules, General Provident Fund (Tamil
Nadu) Rules and Tamil Nadu Family Pension Rules, as adopted by the Corporation of Chennai.
(2)
Members of the Corporation Service who opted to remain under any pensionary scheme in the Corporation of [Chennai]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu 28 of 1996).]
shall continue to remain under such scheme.
10.
Savings.
- Nothing contained in these rules shall adversely affect any person holding any of the posts referred to in these rules on
the date of coming into force of these rules.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4