
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Chennai Corporation General Service Rules, 1970
The Chennai Corporation General Service Rules, 1970
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/3829290/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of  Tamilnadu- Act
The Chennai Corporation General Service Rules, 1970
TAMILNADU
India
The Chennai Corporation General Service Rules, 1970
Rule THE-CHENNAI-CORPORATION-GENERAL-SERVICE-RULES-1970 of 1970
Published on 20 April 1970
Commenced on 20 April 1970
[This is the version of this document from 20 April 1970.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Chennai Corporation General Service Rules, 1970
Published vide Notification G.O. Ms. No. 701, Rural Development and Local Administration, dated 20th April, 1970
1.
Short title.
- These rules may be called the [Chennai]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of blame) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).]
Corporation General Service Rules, 1970.
2.
Constitution.
- This service shall consist of the following classes and categories of officers, namely:-
Class
Page 1/6
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Chennai Corporation General Service Rules, 1970
I-A
Category-1
Revenue Officer
Category-2
Chief Accounts Officer
Class
I-B
Secretary to Council
Class
II
Category-1
Assistant Revenue Officer
Category-2
Assistant Accounts Officer
Category-3
Superintendent of Parks.
3.
Appointment.
- Appointments to the posts specified in column (1) of the Table below shall be made by the methods specified in the
corresponding entries in column (2) thereof
Posts
Method of Appointment
(1)
(2)
Class I-A
Category-1 Revenue Officer
(a)
By promotion from Category-1 in Class-II; or
(b)
By appointment from Municipal Commissioners,
Special Grade, Selection Grade and First Grade in the  Tamil Nadu
Municipal Commissioner's Service on  deputation basis; or
(c)
By appointment from the Tamil Nadu Civil Service
(Executive Branch) Officers Selection Grade on  deputation
basis.
Category-2 Chief Accounts Officer
(a)
By promotion from the Category-1 in Class II; or
(b)
By appointment from Class II of the Tamil Nadu
State Treasury and Accounts Service on deputation  basis; or
(c)
By appointment from any other State Service on
deputation basis.
Class I-B
Secretary to Council
(a)
By promotion from among Class II Officers of the
Corporation of Chennai who have served as such  officers for a
period of not less than five years; or
Page 2/6
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Chennai Corporation General Service Rules, 1970
(b)
By appointment on deputation from among the
Officers not below the rank of a Section Officer in the
Secretariat of the Government of Tamil Nadu who  have served as
such Officers for a period of not less  than five years---
(i) from the Law department in the Government of
Tamil Nadu or from Tamil Nadu Legislative  Assembly or
Legislative Council Secretariat; or
(ii) from any of the Municipal Corporation
Service in  the State of Tamil Nadu; or
(iii) From the Ministry of Parliamentary Affairs
in the  Government of India; or
(c)
By the direct recruitment from among the members
of the Bar who have been practising for a period of  not less
than seven years in a District Court or above.  (G.O. No.36, RD
arid LA)
1. Tamil Nadu Legislative Council already been abolished.
Posts
Method of Appointment
(1)
(2)
Class II
Category-1 Assistant Revenue Officer
(a) By promotion from the category of
Superintendents of   Taxes and Assessors in Class III in the
Corporation  Establishment; or
(b) By appointment from the category of
Municipal  commissioners, Second Grade and Third Grade in the
Tamil Nadu Municipal Commissioner Service who have  put in not
less than five Bears of service.
Category-2 Assistant Accounts Officer
(a) By promotion from the category of
Superintendents   and Assistant Accounts Head clerks, Council
Section in  dais III in the Corporation Officer Establishment who
have  put in three years of service as such; or (G.O. Ms.No. 735,
RD and LA dated 24.4.1984)
(b) By appointment on deputation from the
category of  District Inspectors of Local Funds, Junior Accounts
Officers, Sub-Treasury Officers Grade I, Assistant  Treasury
Officers, and Accountants Grade I of the  Treasuries and Accounts
Subordinate Service in their  respective posts.
Category-3 Superintendents of Parks
(a) By promotion from the category of
Superintendent,  Sewage Superintendent farm or from the category
of Park   Supervisor in Class III of Parks of corporation
establishment, or
(b) By appointment Upper Subordinate with 5
Years  service in the Agricultural Subordinate Service of the
State  Government on deputation basis.
4.
Page 3/6
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Chennai Corporation General Service Rules, 1970
Qualifications.
- No person shall be eligible for appointment to the posts specified in column (1) of the Table below by the methods
specified in the corresponding entries in column (2) unless he possesses the qualifications specified in the
corresponding entries in column (3) thereof.
Categories of Posts
Method of Recruitment
Qualifications
(1)
(2)
(3)
1. Revenue Officer
(a) By appointment on deputation.
A Graduate of a recognised University.
(b) By promotion from Assistant Revenue Officer.
(i) A pass in the Accounts Test for  Subordinate
Officers Parts I and II or any   other Accounts Test prescribed
by the  Government as equivalent thereto;
(ii) A pass in the Revenue Test Parts 1 to  III
prescribed for the Tamil Nadu  Revenue Subordinates Service; and
(iii) Adequate experience for a period of  not
less than five years of collection and  administration.
2. Chief Accounts Officer.
By promotion or by appointment on deputation.
(i) A Graduate of a recognised University.
(ii) A pass in the Account Test for  Subordinate
Officers, Parts I and II or  any other Accounts Test prescribed
by  the Government as equivalent thereto.
3. Secretary to the Council
By direct recruitment or by promotion or by appointment on
deputation
(i) B.L.Degree of any of the University in   the
State of Tamil Nadu or an equivalent  degree of an other
University in the   Union of India;
(ii) Adequate knowledge of Tamil to  write notes
and drafts on that language;  and
(iii) Must not have completed thirty five  years
of age at the time of making the  application in the case of a
candidate  who is appointed by direct recruitment;  (G.O.Ms. No.
366 R.D. & L.A., dated  19.3.1986).
4. Assistant Revenue Officer
(a) By promotion
(i) A Graduate of recognised University.
(ii) Must be an approved probationer in  the
category of Superintendents Taxes or  must have served as
Assessor for a  period of not less than five years;
(iii) A pass in the Account Test for
Subordinate Officers Parts I and II or any  other Accounts Test
prescribed by  Government as equivalent thereto; and
(iv) A pass in the Revenue Test Parts I&  II
prescribed for the Tamil Nadu  Revenue Subordinate Service.
(b) Appointment on deputation
Page 4/6
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Chennai Corporation General Service Rules, 1970
(i) A Graduate of recognised University.
(ii) Must have served as Municipal  Commissioner
Second Grade or Third  Grade for a period of not less than five
years.
5. Assistant Accounts Officer.
By Promotion or by appointment on deputation
(i) A Graduate of recognised University.
(ii) A pass in the Accounts Test for
Subordinate Officers Parts 1 and II or any  other Accounts Tests
prescribed by  Government as equivalent thereto; and
(iii) Must have served as Superintendent  or
Head Clerk in the corporation  including Council Section Class
III for a  period of not less than three years. (G.O.  Ms. No.
735, R.D. & L.A. dated 4.4.1981)
6. Superintendent of Parks
By Promotion or by appointment on deputation
(i) A degree in Agriculture or Botany.
(ii) A pass in the Accounts Test for
Subordinate Officers Part I or any other  Account Test prescribed
by the  Government as equivalent thereto:
Provided that person to be appointed on
deputation must have also served for a  period of five years in
the State  Agricultural Subordinate Service.
Explanation. - A degree means a degree awarded by any University or Institution recognised by the University Grants
Commission for the purpose of its grant.
5.
Probation.
- Every person appointed to the post included in Class I-A, Class I-B and Class II either by direct recruitment or by
promotion shall, from the date on which he joins duty, be on probation for a total period of two years on duty within a
continuous period of three years.
6.
Test.
(a)
Every person appointed by direct recruitment to the post of Secretary to the Council shall pass within his period of
probation, the Account Test for Subordinate Officers Part I and II.
(b)
If a probationer in the post of Secretary to Council fails to P7SS the said test, he shall not be deemed to have completed
his probation satisfactorily and shall not be entitled to appointment as full member or to increments in the time scale of
pay applicable to him unless and until he has passed the said test. But, such ineligibility of increments after he has
passed the said test. If such probationer does not pass the said test within a period of five years from the date of his
appointment, he shall be discharged from the service.
7.
Reservation of appointments.
- The rule relating to reservation of appointment (General rules) governing the corporation service shall apply to
appointments to the posts by direct recruitment.
8.
[Omitted by G.O.Ms.No. 366, RD&LA, dated the 19th March 1986.]
9.
[Omitted by G.O.Ms.No. 366, RD&LA, dated the 19th March 1986.]
10.
Conveyance allowance.
Page 5/6
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Chennai Corporation General Service Rules, 1970
- There shall be paid to the holders of the posts, conveyance allowance at such rates and subject to such condition as
may be determined by the Government, from time to time. The conveyance allowance paid to the holders of the post
shall be met from the municipal fund.
11.
Pension and provident fund.
(1)
Member of this service shall be governed by the Tamil Nadu Liberalised Pension Rules, General Provident Fund (Tamil
Nadu) Rules and Tamil Nadu Family Pension Rules, as adopted by the Corporation of Chennai.
(2)
Members of the corporation service who opted to any pensionary scheme in the Corporation of [Chennai]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of blame) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).]
shall continue to remain under such scheme.
12.
Savings.
- Nothing contained in these rules shall adversely affect any person holding any of the posts referred to in these rules on
the date of coming into force of these rules.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 6/6