
----- PAGE 1 -----
Tamil Nadu Non-Trading Companies Act, 1972
Tamil Nadu Non-Trading Companies Act, 1972
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/181089879/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of  Tamilnadu- Act
Tamil Nadu Non-Trading Companies Act, 1972
TAMILNADU
India
Tamil Nadu Non-Trading Companies Act, 1972
Act 16 of 1972
Published on 10 May 1972
Commenced on 10 May 1972
[This is the version of this document from 10 May 1972.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Tamil Nadu Non-Trading Companies Act, 1972
(Tamil Nadu Act
16 of 1972
)
Statement of Objects and Reasons - Tamil Nadu Non-trading Companies Act, 1972 (Tamil Nadu Act XVI of 1972). - The
Indian Companies Act, 1913 (Central Act VII of 1913) has been repealed by section 644 of, and Schedule XII to, the
Companies Act, 1956 (Central Act 1 of 1956). According to entries 43 and 44 of the Union List in the Seventh Schedule
to the Constitution, read with clause (1) of Article 246, Parliament has exclusive power to make laws with respect to the
matters enumerated in the said entries. Entry 32 of the State List, read with clause (3) of Article 246 of the Constitution,
confers on the State Legislature exclusive power to make laws with respect to incorporation, regulation and winding up
of non-trading corporations with objects confined to one State. Parliament is, therefore, not competent to repeal the
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Tamil Nadu Non-Trading Companies Act, 1972
Indian Companies Act, 1913, in so far as it relates to matters specified in entry 32 of the State List. The repeal of the
Indian Companies Act, 1913 by section 644 of, and Schedule XII to, Central Act 1 of 1956 must thus be deemed to have
effect only with respect to matters specified in entries 43 and 44 of the Union List. The result is that section 289-A of the
Indian Companies Act, 1913, which enables the State Government to exercise the powers of the Central Government
under that Act with respect to non-trading corporations with objects confined to one State, must be said to continue in
force.
2. It is considered necessary to enact a uniform law relating to the incorporation, regulation and winding up of
non-trading corporations with objects confined to the State of Tamil Nadu which would apply throughout the State.
Instead of enacting a comprehensive legislation for the purpose, it is proposed to make the provisions of the Companies
Act, 1956, applicable to non-trading corporations with objects confined to the State of Tamil Nadu by means of a
referential piece of legislation.
3. The Bill seeks to achieve the above object and repeals Central Act VII of 1913 in so far as it falls within the State List
and the corresponding law in force in the transferred territory.
Published in Part IV - Section 3, pages 63-64 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 28th
March 1972.
Received the assent of the Governor on the 10th May 1972 and first published in Part IV - Section 4 of the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette Extraordinary on the 16th May 1972.
An Act to provide for the application of the Companies Act, 1956, to companies with object confined to the State of Tamil
Nadu, which are not trading corporations.
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Tamil Nadu in the Twenty-third Year of the Republic of India as follows : -
1.
Short title, extent, commencement and application.
(1)
This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Non-Trading Companies Act, 1972.
(2)
It extends to the whole of the State of Tamil Nadu.
(3)
It shall come into force on such date as the State Government may, by notification, appoint.
(4)
It shall apply to a company as defined in section 2 of this Act.
2.
Definition.
- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, "company" means a company formed and registered under this Act
or an existing company formed and registered under any of the previous companies laws specified in clause (ii) of
sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Companies Act, 1956 (Central Act I of 1956), which is a non-trading corporation within
the meaning of entries 43 and 44 of the Union List in the Seventh Schedule to Constitution with objects confined to the
State of Tamil Nadu.
3.
Application of the Companies Act, 1956 (Central Act I of 1956), to companies to which this Act applies.
- The provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 (Central Act I of 1956), as for the time being in force shall, so far as may
be, apply to the incorporation, regulation and winding up of companies to which this Act applies:
Provided that -
(i)
the powers conferred on the Central Government by those provisions shall be exercisable and may be exercised by the
State Government;
(ii)
the State Government may, by notification -
(a)
delegate all or any of such powers to such authority of officer, and subject W such conditions, restrictions and limitations
as may be specified in the notification; and
(b)
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Tamil Nadu Non-Trading Companies Act, 1972
relax, omit, and to, or vary any provision of the aforesaid Central Act here by made applicable to companies to which
this Act applies; and
(iii)
the powers, duties and functions of the Registrar under the said provisions shall be exercised, discharged and
performed by such person as may be appointed by the State Government by name or by virtue of office, to be the
Registrar in relation to companies to which this Act applies.
4.
Power to make rules.
- The State Government may make rules for carrying out all or any of the purposes of this Act.
5.
Publication of rules, commencement of rules and notifications and placing them on the table of the Legislature.
(1)
(a)
All rules made under this Act shall be published in the, Tamil Nadu Government Gazette and, unless they are expressed
to come into force on a particular day, shall come into force on the day on which they are so published.
(b)
All notifications issued under this Act shall, unless they are expressed to come into force on a particular day, come into
force on a particular day, come into force on the day on which they are published.
(2)
Every rule made or notification issued under this Act shall, as soon possible, after it is made or issued, be placed on the
table of [the Legislative Assembly]
[Substituted for the expression 'both Houses of Legislature' by paragraph 3(2) of the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws
Order, 1987.]
, and if, before the expiry of the session in which it is so placed or the next session, [the Legislative Assembly agrees]
[Substituted for the expression 'both Houses agree' by paragraph 3(2), of the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1987.]
in making any modification in any such rule or notification or [Legislative Assembly agrees]
[Substituted for the expression 'both Houses agree' by paragraph 3(2), of the Tamil Nadu Adaptation of Laws Order,
1987.]
that the rule or notification should not made or issued, the rule or notification shall thereafter have effect only in such
modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be, so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule or notification.
6.
Repeal.
- The Indian Companies Act, 1913 (Central Act VII of 1913), in its application to the State of Tamil Nadu excluding the
transferred territory and in so far as it relates to matters specified in entry 32, of the State List in the Seventh Schedule
to the Constitution, and so much of the law, if any, in force in the transferred territory corresponding to the aforesaid
Central Act are hereby repealed.
Explanation. - For the purpose of this section, the expression "transferred territory" shall mean the Kanyakumari district
and the Shencottah taluk of the Tirunelveli district.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3