
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Rules Relating to Determination of Capital Value of Lands (Other than Railway Lands)
The Rules Relating to Determination of Capital Value of Lands (Other
than Railway Lands)
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/40052280/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of  Tamilnadu- Act
The Rules Relating to Determination of Capital Value of Lands (Other than Railway Lands)
TAMILNADU
India
The Rules Relating to Determination of Capital Value of Lands (Other than Railway Lands)
Rule
THE-RULES-RELATING-TO-DETERMINATION-OF-CAPITAL-VALUE-OF-LANDS-OTHER-THAN-RAILWAY-LANDS of
1973
Published on 6 July 1973
Commenced on 6 July 1973
[This is the version of this document from 6 July 1973.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Rules Relating to Determination of Capital Value of Lands (Other than Railway Lands)
Published vide Notification G. O. Ms. No. 1311, Rural Development and Local Administration, dated 6th July 1973
S.R.O. No. A-763 of 1973. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 431 of the Madurai City
Municipal Corporation Act, 1971 (Tamil Nadu Act
15 of 1971
), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following rules for determining the capital value of lands (other than
Railway lands), which are not used exclusively for agricultural purposes and are not occupied by, or adjacent and
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Rules Relating to Determination of Capital Value of Lands (Other than Railway Lands)
appurtenant to, buildings for purposes of assessment to property tax by the Madurai Corporation Council.
1.
For the purpose of clause (a) of sub-section (4) of section 120 of the Madurai City Municipal Corporation Act, 1971
(Tamil Nadu Act
15 of 1971
), the capital value of any land (other than railway land) shall be its market value, that is to say, the price which it would
reasonably fetch, if sold in the Open market, having regard to its situation, present condition and value as a prospective
site for building houses or for the location of mills, factories or other industrial or commercial concerns.
2.
In determining such market-value, regard shall be had to the following factors, namely:-
(a)
the price paid for the land or for any portion thereof in the year current or in three years immediately preceding, after
making due allowance for the lapse of time and any differences in respect of the situation of the land or of the amenities
in the neighbourhood, since the sale; and
(b)
the price paid for similar lands in the vicinity in the year current or in the three years immediately preceding, after making
due allowances as aforesaid.
3.
(1)
The Commissioner, Corporation of Madurai may obtain from the Revenue Divisional Officer, Madurai the particulars of-
(i)
all lands in the Corporation not used exclusively for agricultural purposes which were valued by the Revenue
Department in the current year and in the three years immediately preceding in connection with the acquisition of land
for public purposes, the assignment or sale of town-sites at the disposal of Government under Standing Orders of the
Board of Revenue or any other purpose; and
(ii)
the rate of capital value adopted in the case of each such land.
(2)
The Commissioner may take such rates as a general guide in making a valuation of lands situated near the lands to
which the rates relate.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2