
----- PAGE 1 -----
Tamil Nadu Municipal Electrical Engineering Service Rules, 1970
Tamil Nadu Municipal Electrical Engineering Service Rules, 1970
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/136371064/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of  Tamilnadu- Act
Tamil Nadu Municipal Electrical Engineering Service Rules, 1970
TAMILNADU
India
Tamil Nadu Municipal Electrical Engineering Service Rules, 1970
Rule TAMIL-NADU-MUNICIPAL-ELECTRICAL-ENGINEERING-SERVICE-RULES-1970 of 1970
Published on 23 May 1975
Commenced on 23 May 1975
[This is the version of this document from 23 May 1975.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Tamil Nadu Municipal Electrical Engineering Service Rules, 1970
Published vide Notification No. G.O. Ms. No. 885, Rural Development and Local Administration, dated 23rd May 1975 -
No. SRO A 302/75
Published in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, Part III-Section 1-A, page 548, dated the 25th June 1975.
In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (d) of section 76-A and clause (a) of sub-section (2) of section 203 of the
Tamil Nadu District Municipalities Act, 1920 (Tamil Nadu Act V of1920) and in supersession of all previous notifications
on the subject, the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following rules prescribing the method of recruitment and
the qualification for officers in Electrical Engineering Establishment under Municipal Councils.
1.
Short title and amendment.
- (i) These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Municipal Electrical Engineering Service Rules, 1970.
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
Tamil Nadu Municipal Electrical Engineering Service Rules, 1970
(ii)
They shall come into force on the date of publication in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette.
2.
Constitution.
- The service shall consist of the following categories, namely: -
Municipal Electrical Engineer, Grade I.
Municipal Electrical Engineer, Grade II.
Municipal Electrical Engineer, Grade III.
3.
Appointment.
(a)
Appointment to the posts shall be made as follows -
Post
Method of recruitment
1.
Municipal Electrical Engineers, Grade I
By deputation from Tamil Nadu Electricity Board
in the rank of Divisional Electrical Engineer. By promotion from
Municipal Electrical Engineer, Grade II
2.
Municipal Electrical Engineer, Grade II
By deputation from Tamil Nadu Electricity Board
in the rank of Assistant Engineer.
By promotion from Municipal Electrical Engineer,
Grade III.
3.
Municipal Electrical Engineer, Grade III
By promotion from Supervisor By direct
recruitment
(b)
Promotions to the posts shall be made on grounds of merit and ability seniority being considered only where merit and
ability are approximately equal.
4.
Reservation.
- The rule relating to reservation of appointment in rule 22 of the General Rules for Tamil Nadu State and Subordinate
Service shall apply to appointments to the post of Municipal Electrical Engineers, Grade III by direct recruitment.
5.
Qualification.
- No person shall be eligible for appointment to the posts and by the method mentioned in columns (1) and (2)
respectively of the Table below unless he possesses the qualifications specified in the corresponding entries in column
(3) thereof: -
Post
Method of recruitment
Minimum qualifications
(1)
(2)
(3)
Municipal Electrical Engineer, Grade I.
By deputation
Engineers of Tamil Nadu Electricity Board in the rank of
Divisional Electrical Engineer who possess any of the
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
Tamil Nadu Municipal Electrical Engineering Service Rules, 1970
qualification prescribed for direct recruitment to the post of
Municipal Engineer, Grade III.
By promotion
Regular members of Municipal Electrical Engineer, Grade II,
under the Municipal Electrical undertakings who have put in not
less than five years of service and who possess any of the
qualifications prescribed for direct recruitment to the post of
Municipal Engineer, Grade III.
Municipal Electrical Engineer, Grade II.
By deputation
Engineers of Tamil Nadu Electricity Board in the rank of
Assistant Engineer who possess any of the qualifications
prescribed for direct recruitment to the post of Municipal
Engineer, Grade III.
By promotion
Approved probationers in the category of Municipal Electrical
Engineer, Grade III under Municipal Electrical undertakings who
possess any of the qualifications prescribed for direct
recruitment to the post of Municipal Engineer Grade III.
Municipal Electrical Engineer, Grade III.
By direct recruitment.
(1) Must not have
completed or  will not complete 32 years of age on the first day
of July for the year in which the selection for appointment is
made in the case of direct recruits.(2) (a) A diploma of
L.E.E. issued by the Technological Diploma Examination Board,
Chennai or equivalent qualifications; and(b) Practical
experience in maintenance or erection or construction work for a
period of not less than 2 years in the Government Electricity
Department, Tamil Nadu Electricity Board or three years
elsewhere.Explanation. -
Practical experience is not necessary in case of persons
possessing the B.E. Degree of the Chennai or Madurai or
Annamalai University or any other University recognized by the
University Grants Commission. (3) (a) A pass in Sections A and B
of the A.M.I.E. (India) Examination with Electrical Engineering
(General) and any two of the following subjects under Section B
as optional or additional subjects: -(i) Electric Supply
and Power Distribution,(ii) Electric
Machinery,(iii) Electrical
Installations.(iv) Electrical
Measurements.(v) Thermodynamics
and Heat Engines (Steam and Internal Combustion).(vi)
Hydro-Electricity.(vii) Hydraulics or
Hydraulic Machinery.(b) The
qualification specified above is subject to the following
conditions, namely: -(i) Practical
training in 'Surveying' for at least one year or hold the Upper
Subordinate or L.C.E. Diploma of the College of Engineering,
Guindy or any other qualification recognised as equivalent
thereto; and(ii) Practical experience of erection,
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
Tamil Nadu Municipal Electrical Engineering Service Rules, 1970
maintenance or construction work for a period of not less than
one year after passing section A and B of the A.M.I.E (India)
Examination. Or
By promotion
Approved probationers in the category of
Supervisors possessing any of the qualifications prescribed in
items (2) or (3) above.
6.
Probation.
- Every person appointed by direct recruitment or by promotion to the post of Municipal Engineer, Grade III shall, from
the date on which he joins duty be on probation for a period of two years on duty within a continuous period of three
years.
7.
Tests.
- A person appointed to the post of Municipal Electrical Engineer, Grade III shall, unless he has already passed the test,
pass the Electricity Department Account Test within the period of his probation. He shall not be liable to be discharged
or reverted for failure to pass the above test within the period of his probation, but his period of probation shall be
extended and his increment stopped until he passes the test but the stoppage will not operate to postpone further
increments after the test has been passed.
8.
Appointments, postings and transfer.
- Appointments, postings and transfer shall be made by the Government.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4