
----- PAGE 1 -----
Tamil Nadu Educational Institutions (Temporary Control of Property) Amendment and Validati...
Tamil Nadu Educational Institutions (Temporary Control of Property)
Amendment and Validation Act, 1975
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/85679375/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of  Tamilnadu- Act
Tamil Nadu Educational Institutions (Temporary Control of Property) Amendment and Validation Act, 1975
TAMILNADU
India
Tamil Nadu Educational Institutions (Temporary Control of Property) Amendment and Validation Act, 1975
Act 46 of 1975
Published on 29 November 1975
Commenced on 29 November 1975
[This is the version of this document from 29 November 1975.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Tamil Nadu Educational Institutions (Temporary Control of Property) Amendment and Validation Act, 1975
(Tamil Nadu Act
No. 46 of 1975
)
Received the assent of the President on the 29th November 1975, and published in the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 21st October 1975.
An Ad to amend the Tamil Nadu Educational Institutions (Temporary Control of Property) Act, 1949.
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Tamil Nadu in the Twenty-sixth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
1.
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
Tamil Nadu Educational Institutions (Temporary Control of Property) Amendment and Validati...
Short title and commencement.
(1)
This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Educational Institutions (Temporary Control of Property) Amendment and
Validation Act, 1975.
(2)
It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 8th September 1975.
2.
[The amendment made by this section has already been incorporated in the principal Act, namely, the Tamil Nadu
Educational Institutions (Temporary Control of Property) Act, 1949 (Tamil Nadu Act XLVIII of 1949)].
3.
Order to have retrospective effect in certain cases.
- Where the control of any property of any educational institution, has been taken over by Government before the 8th
September 1975 under section 3 of the principal Act, the Stale Government may issue an order continuing such control
for a further period not exceeding three academic years under sub-section (7) of section 3 of the principal Act as
amended by this Act and such order shall take effect from the date of the expiry of the academic year referred to in the
proviso to sub-section (6) of section 3 of the principal Act.
4.
Validation.
- Notwithstanding anything contained in the principal Act as amended by this Act or in any other law, if the control of any
property of any educational institution, has been taken over by the State Government before the 8th September 1975
under section 3 of the principal Act, such control shall, unless sooner relinquished, remain and always be deemed to
have remained with the State Government at all material times, as if an order under sub-section (7) of section 3 of the
principal Act as amended by this Act continuing the control of the institution for a further period not exceeding three
academic years had been issued by the State Government and remained in force at all material times and accordingly -
(a)
all acts or proceedings or things done or taken by the Stale Government or any authority or officer or servant of the
State Government in connection with any property of the educational institution concerned shall, for all purposes be
deemed to be, and to have always been, done or taken in accordance with law;
(b)
no suit or other proceeding shall lie against the State Government or any authority or officer or servant of the State
Government for the release of control of any property of such educational institution solely on the ground that the control
of the State Government ceased to exist under section 3 of the principal Act as in force before the 8th September 1975
and no Court shall enforce any decree or order, directing the release of any such control.
5.
Repeal.
(1)
The Tamil Nadu Educational Institutions (Temporary Control of Property) Amendment and Validation Ordinance, 1975
(Tamil Nadu Ordinance 14 of 1975), is hereby repealed.
(2)
Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken under the principal Act, as amended by the said
Ordinance, shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the principal Act as amended by this Act, as if this Act
had come into force on the 8th September 1975.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2