
----- PAGE 1 -----
Tamil Nadu Rural Road Development Fund Rules, 1976
Tamil Nadu Rural Road Development Fund Rules, 1976
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/125345362/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of  Tamilnadu- Act
Tamil Nadu Rural Road Development Fund Rules, 1976
TAMILNADU
India
Tamil Nadu Rural Road Development Fund Rules, 1976
Rule TAMIL-NADU-RURAL-ROAD-DEVELOPMENT-FUND-RULES-1976 of 1976
Published on 1 January 1976
Commenced on 1 January 1976
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 1976.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Tamil Nadu Rural Road Development Fund Rules, 1976
1.
Short title.
- These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Rural Road Development Fund Rules, 1976.
2.
Definitions.
- In these rules, the expression "Fund" shall mean the Tamil Nadu Rural Road Development Fund constituted under
section 10 of the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1974 (Tamil Nadu Act 13 of 1974).
3.
Corpus of the Fund.
- The percentage of motor vehicles tax fixed by the Government by notification, from time to time, under sub-section (1)
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
Tamil Nadu Rural Road Development Fund Rules, 1976
of section 10 of the Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1974 (Tamil Nadu Act 13 of 1974), shall be credited to the
deposit head of account, namely "829. Development and Welfare Funds Other Development and Welfare Fund - AB
Rural Development Fund".
4.
Operation of Fund.
- The Fund shall be operated by the Secretary to Government of Tamil Nadu, Finance Department, Chennai.
5.
Utilisation of the Fund.
- The Fund shall be utilised exclusively to meet the expenditure of the development and maintenance of public roads in
rural areas in the State of Tamil Nadu.
6.
Accounting procedure.
- (a)(i) Transfer of the percentage of tax fixed by Government in the Fund. - The amount of tax to be transferred to the
Fund shall be determined as a percentage of the revised estimate of the tax in that year and the actual transfer shall be
effected in that year itself by debiting to the head "337. Roads and Bridges-f. District and other Roads - AK. Rural Road
Development Fund-1 - Contributions". The balance amount to be transferred for a year based on the accounts for that
year shall be adjusted while making the transfer for the subsequent year.
(ii)
Expenditure. - The items of expenditure on the development of roads in rural areas will be met out of the Fund and this
expenditure shall be debited to distinct heads of account specifically indicating that the expenditure is being met from the
Fund.
(b)
Transfer from Fund. - An amount not exceeding the total expenditure booked under the specific heads of account
mentioned in clause (a)(ii) above shall be transferred from the Fund Account to the Revenue or Capital Account as the
case may be. This amount shall be fixed at the time of fixing the revised Estimates for the year for the expenditure items
mentioned in the said clause (a)(ii) above. The transfer shall be done on this basis and the actual amount shall be finally
fixed and adjusted in the subsequent year when the account for the year are available.
The Secretary to the Government of Tamil Nadu, Finance Department, Chennai shall advise the Accountant-General,
Tamil Nadu, Chennai about the amount of the tax credited to the Fund under intimation to the Secretaries to the
Government of Tamil Nadu in the Rural Development and Local Administration Department and in the Home
Department.
The Secretary to the Government of Tamil Nadu, Finance Department shall also be the Officer-in-charge of effecting
transfer from the Fund Account in the relevant expenditure head. He should issue specific orders for authorising the
Accountant-General, Tamil Nadu, Chennai, to transfer the amount from the Fund to meet the expenditure and for
adjustment of estimates to actuals on the transfer of tax amount to Fund and expenditure met from Fund.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2