
----- PAGE 1 -----
Ad Hoc Rules Relating to The Temporary Post of Decorticator Mechanic in Market Committees
Ad Hoc Rules Relating to The Temporary Post of Decorticator
Mechanic in Market Committees
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/170505531/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of  Tamilnadu- Act
Ad Hoc Rules Relating to The Temporary Post of Decorticator Mechanic in Market Committees
TAMILNADU
India
Ad Hoc Rules Relating to The Temporary Post of Decorticator Mechanic in Market Committees
Rule
AD-HOC-RULES-RELATING-TO-THE-TEMPORARY-POST-OF-DECORTICATOR-MECHANIC-IN-MARKET-COMMITT
EES of 1980
Published on 5 July 1980
Commenced on 5 July 1980
[This is the version of this document from 5 July 1980.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Ad Hoc Rules Relating to The Temporary Post of Decorticator Mechanic in Market Committees
Published vide Notification No. G. O. Ms. No. 475. Agriculture (AM-3), Dated 5th July 1980 - No. SRO B-191-A-6/ 89
In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (4) of section 12 of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural Produce Marketing
(Regulation) Act, 1987 (Tamil Nadu Act 27 of 1989) and the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution of India, the
Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following rules:-
The rules hereby made shall be deemed to have come into force on the 17th November 1981.
1.
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
Ad Hoc Rules Relating to The Temporary Post of Decorticator Mechanic in Market Committees
The General and Special Rules applicable to the holders of permanent posts of Mechanic in Category 4 in Class II in the
Tamil Nadu Agricultural Subordinate Service shall apply to the holders of temporary posts of Decorticator Mechanic in
Market Committees in the Agricultural Marketing Department sanctioned, from time to time, subject to the modifications
specified in the following rules:-
2.
Constitution.
- The post shall constitute a separate category in the said class of the said service.
3.
Appointment
. - Appointment to the post shall be made by direct recruitment.
4.
Appointing authority.
- The appointing authority for the post shall be the Secretary of the Market Committee.
5.
Qualification.
(a)
Age. - No person shall be eligible for appointment to the post if he has completed or will complete 28 years of age on the
first day of July of the year in which the selection for appointment is made:
Provided that the age limit shall be increased by five years in the case of candidates belonging to the Scheduled Castes
and Scheduled Tribes.
(b)
Other Qualifications. - No person shall be eligible for appointment to the post unless he possesses the following
qualifications, namely:-
(1)
Minimum general educational qualification prescribed in the Schedule to the General Rules for the Tamil Nadu State and
Subordinate Services;
(2)
Must possess practical experience in all types of Decorticators (Ginning and Processing unit) of not less than three
years.
6.
Probation.
- Every person appointed to the post shall be on probation for a total period of two years on duty within a continuous
period of three years.
7.
Pay 1. -
There shall be paid to the holders of the post a monthly pay calculated in the scale of pay Rs. 295-5-315-10-475 and in
the scale of pay of Rs. 515-15-615-20-795-25-970 with effect from 1st October 1984.
1. Refer to last pay scale.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2