
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Madurai City Municipal Corporation Service Rules, 1981
The Madurai City Municipal Corporation Service Rules, 1981
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/185421284/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of  Tamilnadu- Act
The Madurai City Municipal Corporation Service Rules, 1981
TAMILNADU
India
The Madurai City Municipal Corporation Service Rules, 1981
Rule THE-MADURAI-CITY-MUNICIPAL-CORPORATION-SERVICE-RULES-1981 of 1981
Published on 2 May 1981
Commenced on 2 May 1981
[This is the version of this document from 2 May 1981.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Madurai City Municipal Corporation Service Rules, 1981
Published vide Notification G.O. MS. NO. 788, dated 2nd May 1981
In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 431 read with subsection (1) of section 106 of the
Madurai City Municipal Corporation Act, 1971 (Tamil Nadu Act
15 of 1971
), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following rules:-
Special Rules
Class II
Service
1.
Short title.
Page 1/9
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Madurai City Municipal Corporation Service Rules, 1981
- These rules may be called for Madurai City Municipal Corporation Class II Service Rules 1981.
2.
Constitution.
- The service shall consist of the following categories of officers, namely:-
Category 1
Assistant Health Officer
Category 2(a)
Assistant Executive Engineer (W.S. & D)
Category 2(b)
Assistant Executive Engineer (General Purpose)
Category 2(c)
Assistant Executive Engineer (Automobile)
Category 2(d)
Assistant Executive Engineer (Electrical)
Category 3(a)
Manager
Category 3(b)
Assistant Accounts Officer
Category 3(c)
Assistant Revenue Officer
Category 3(d)
Chief Accountant (General Service)
Category 4
Assistant Educational Officer
Category 5
Assistant Town Planning Officer
Category 6
Chief Accountant including Additional Chief Accountant of
Electricity
3.
Appointment.
(a)
Appointment to the posts specified in Column (1) of the Table below shall be made by the methods specified in the
corresponding entries in Column (2) thereof.
Category
Method of appointment
(1)
(2)
Category 1 - Assistant Health Officer
By direct recruitment; or by promotion from the
category of class III of Madurai Corporation Public Health and
Medical Service; or by deputation from the category of Assistant
Health Officer in the Tamil Nadu Public Health Service.
Category 2(a) - Assistant Executive Engineer
Water supply and Drainage
By direct recruitment; or by promotion from the
categories of Water Works and Drainage Superintendents in Class
III of the said Service; or by deputation from the category of
Assistant Executive Engineers, Tamilnadu Water Supply and
Drainage Board.
Category 2(b) - Assistant Executive Engineer
Page 2/9
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Madurai City Municipal Corporation Service Rules, 1981
(General purposes)
By promotion from the category of Senior
Supervisor in Madurai Corporation Engineering and Waterworks
Service; or by deputation from the category of Assistant
Engineers, Public Service Departments.
Category 2(c) - Assistant Executive Engineer
(Automobile)
By direct recruitment; or by deputation from the
category of Assistant Engineer (Automobile) of State Service or
from the Assistant Engineer of the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and
Drainage Board.
Category 2(d) - Assistant Executive Engineer
(Electrical)
By deputation from the category of Assistant
Executive Engineer (Electrical) of the Electricity Board Service
and by promotion from category 1 in Branch I of Class III Service
in the ratio of 1:1
Category 3(a) - Manager.
By transfer from category 3(b) of Class II
Service; or by promotion from categories 3(c) and 3(b) of Class
II Service or by deputation from the category of Municipal
Commissioner Grade II of the Tamilnadu Municipal Commissioners
Service.
Category 3(b) - Assistant Accounts Officer
By transfer from the category 3(a); or by
promotion from categories 3(c) and 3(d) or by deputation from the
category of District Inspectors of Local Fund Accounts, Junior
Accounts Officer, Sub-Treasury Officers and Accountants, Grade I
of the Treasury and Accounts Subordinate Service, who have put in
service for a period of not less than 5 years in their respective
posts.
Category 3(c) - Assistant Revenue Officer
By the transfer from category 3(b); or by
promotion from Branch I of Class III of General Service, or by
deputation from the category of Municipal Commissioner, Grade II
of the Tamil Nadu Municipal Commissioners Service.
Category 3(d) - Chief Accountant
By transfer from category 3(c); or by promotion
from Branch I of Class III in General Service; or by deputation
from the category of District Inspectors of Local Fund Accounts,
Junior Accounts Officers, Sub-Treasury Officers and Accountants,
Grade I of the Treasuries and Accounts Subordinate Service, who
have put in service for a period of not less than 5 years in
their respective posts.
Category 4 - Assistant Educational Officer
By promotion from category I of Branch I of
Class III service or by deputation from Government Service on a
similar scale of pay or by direct recruitment if suitable
candidates are not available for promotion.
Category 5 - Assistant Town Planning Officer
(Grade I)
Page 3/9
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Madurai City Municipal Corporation Service Rules, 1981
By direct recruitment; or by promotion from
Category I of Class III Service; or by deputation from the
category of Town Planning Officer, Grade I in the Tamil Nadu
Municipal Town Planning Service.
Category 6 - Chief Accountant including
Additional Chief accountant of Electricity
By promotion from Branch I of Class III Service
of Electricity General Service; or by appointment or deputation
from the category of Distract Inspector of Local Fund Accounts,
Junior Accounts Officers, Sub-Treasury Officers and Accounts
Grade I of the Treasury Accounts Subordinate Service who have put
in not less than 5 years of service in their respective posts.
(b)
The Employment Exchange should be consulted in the first instance for all direct recruitment and recruitment by
advertisement should be resorted to only after obtaining a non-availability certificate from the Employment Exchange.
4.
Appointing Authority.
- The appointing authority in respect of all the categories in this service shall be the Council and shall be subject to the
confirmation by Government.
5.
Qualification.
- No person shall be eligible for appointment to any of the posts specified in Column (1) of the Table below by the
method specified in the corresponding entries in Column (2) unless he possesses the qualifications specified in the
corresponding entries in Column (3) thereof.
Category
Method of Appointment
Qualifications
1
2
3
Category 1 - Assistant Health Officer
By direct recruitment
(a) B. S. Sc. Degree or the Diploma in Public
Health of the University of Calcutta or any equivalent degree or
diploma of any University or institutions, or
(b) A certificate of having undergone a special
course of training in Sanitary Science in the Medical College,
Chennai, for a period of not less than one year and of having
passed the examination for Licentiate in Public Health held at
the end of the course:
Provided that preference shall be given to
candidates who possesses the qualifications specified in item
(a.)
Provided further that if fully qualified
candidates are not available for appointment, candidates
possessing the M.B.B.S. Degree of any University or institutions
or candidates possessing the Diploma of L.M.P. granted by the
Board of Examiners, Medical College, Chennai may be appointed to
the said category, subject to the following conditions namely:
(i) Such candidates should undergo orientation
course in Public Health for a period of three months before they
Page 4/9
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Madurai City Municipal Corporation Service Rules, 1981
are appointed as Assistant Health Officers. During the period
they undergo the orientation course, they will be paid the
minimum in the time scale of pay of Assistant Health Officers and
dearness allowance admissible under the rules.
(ii) The candidates should acquire the Public
Health Qualification within a period of four years from the date
of their appointment.
(iii) During the period they undergo the course
for acquiring the Public Health Qualification, the candidates
possessing the M.B.B.S. Degree will be allowed to draw Rs. 300
and Diploma holders of Rs. 250 as allowance and appropriate
dearness allowances. All ration fees due to the Government from
the candidates will be borne by the Corporation.
(iv) The period of course of training for
acquiring the Public Health Qualifications will be allowed to
count for purpose of increment and pension of the candidates
concerned. Such period shall not count for purposes of
probations.
(v) Before the candidates join the Medical
College undergoing the course for acquiring the Public Health
qualification, the candidates should execute a bond undertaking
to serve the Corporation of Madurai for a minimum period of ten
years.
(vi) They shall not be deemed to have
satisfactorily completed their probation and shall not be
entitled to appointment as full members until they acquire the
said qualification. If they fail to acquire the said
qualification within the said period of four years, the
appointing authority shall, forthwith by order, terminate their
probation and discharge the them from service.
By promotion and by deputation
(a) B.S.Sc. Degree or the Diploma in Public
Health of the University of Calcutta or any equivalent degree or
Diploma of any University or institution; and
(b) A pass in the Accounts Test for Executive
Officers
Category 2(a) - Assistant Executive Engineer
(Water Supply and Drainage)
By direct recruitment
Must possess the B.E. Degree (Civil or
Mechanical) of any University or Institution recognised by the
University Grants Commission for purposes of its grant.
Category 2(a) - Assistant Executive Engineer
(Water Supply & Drainage)
By promotion and by deputation
(a) B.E Degree (Civil or Mechanical) of any
University of Institution recognised by the University Grants
Commission for purpose of its grant or any other qualification
considered equivalent there to,,
Category 2(b) - Assistant Executive Engineer
(General Purposes)
Page 5/9
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Madurai City Municipal Corporation Service Rules, 1981
By promotion and by deputation
Must have served as Junior Engineer or
Supervisor in the Corporation Engineering Subordinate Service,
Municipal Engineer Grade III, Junior Engineer or Supervisor
(Public Health) for a period of not less than five years on duty;
or
(ii) Municipal Engineer Grade 11 or Assistant
Executive Engineer (Public Health); or
Category 2(c) - Assistant Executive Engineer
(Automobile)
By direct recruitment or by promotion or by
deputation.
(iii) Diploma in Civil or Mechanical Engineering
of the State Board of Technical Education and Training or any
other qualification considered equivalent thereto:
Provided that Municipal Engineer, Grade III or
Supervisor (Public Health) possessing the qualifications referred
to in item (iii) above shall be eligible for appointment as
Assistant Executive Engineer only if they have put in a total
service of not less than 10 years in one or more categories or as
Municipal Engineer, Grade III or as Supervisor (Public Health),
and
(b) A pass in the Account Test for Public Works
Department Officers and Subordinates.
Must hold B.E. Degree (Mechanical) of any
University or Institution recognised by the University Grants
Commission for purposes of its grants, and practical experience
in an automobile workshop or stores for a period of not less than
five years:
Provided that if a fully qualified candidate is
not available for recruitment to the post of Assistant Executive
Engineer, a candidate who does not posses such practical
experience may be appointed and the candidate so appointed shall
undergo training in the workshop or stores of the Tamil Nadu
State Transport Department for a minimum period of one year.
During such training, he shall be paid a monthly pay of Rs. 300.
The period of training will count towards promotion.
Category 2(d) - Assistant Executive Engineer
(Electrical)
By promotion and by deputation
(1) (a) A degree in Electrical Engineering of
any University or Institution recongnised by the University
Grants Commission for purposes of its grants or any other
qualification considered equivalent thereto and in the case of
promotion, service as Supervisor in the Corporation Subordinate
Service for a period of not less than five years, or
(b) Diploma in Electrical Engineering of the
State Board of Technical Education and Training or any other
qualifications considered equivalent thereto and a minimum period
of service and experience of 15 years, or
(c) Subject to the condition specified below a
Page 6/9
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Madurai City Municipal Corporation Service Rules, 1981
pass in Section A and B of the A.MI.E. (India) Examination with
Electrical Engineering (General) and any two of the following
subjects under section B as optional or additional subjects,
namely:-
(i) Electric Supply and Power Distribution;
(ii) Electrical Machinery;
(iii) Electrical Installation;
(iv) Electrical measurements,,
(v) Thermo dynamics and Heat Engines (Steam and
Internal Combustion);
(vi) Hydro Electricity; and
(vii) Hydraulics or Hydraulic Machinery.
Category 2(d) - Assistant Executive Engineer
(Electrical)
By Deputation and by promotion
(A) Should furnish evidence of having undergone
practical training in "Surveying" for at least one year
or hold the Upper Subordinate or L.C.E. Diploma of the College of
Engineering, Guindy or any other qualification recognised as
equivalent thereto;
(B) Should have secured a pass in the
Intermediate Examination of any University or Institution
recognised by the University Grants Commission for purposes of
its grant or an examination recognised by the Government as
equivalent thereto; and
Should have had practical experience for a
period of not less than 6 years which should include at least 4
years practical experience after passing section A and B of the
A.M.I.E. (India) Examination; and
(2) A pass in the Account Test for Public Works
Department Officers and Subordinates.
Category 3(a) to 3(d) Manager, Assistant
Accounts Officer, Assistant Revenue Officer and Chief Accountant
Category 4 Assistant Education Officer
By promotion and by deputation
Must possess a Degree and pass in the Account
Test for Subordinate Officers, Parts I and II or Account Test for
Local Bodies Employees or Panchayat Development Account Test.
(a) B.A., B.Com., or B.Sc. Degree of an
University recognised by the University Grants Commission for the
purpose of its grant, and B.T. Degree of an University recognised
by the University Grants Commission for the purpose of its grant.
Must possess B. Arch Degree of any University
recognised by the University Grant Commission for the purpose of
its grant or Diploma in Architecture, or
(b) Associate of Indian Institute of Architects,
or
(c) a Degree in Civil Engineering of any
University recongnised by the University Grants Commission for
the purpose of its grant; or
(d) Must possess the Post-Licentiate Diploma in
Page 7/9
----- PAGE 8 -----
The Madurai City Municipal Corporation Service Rules, 1981
Town and Country Planning awarded by the Board of Technical
Education, Government of Tamil Nadu.
By promotion and by deputation
Permanent or approved probationer in Category I
of Class III Service, and (b) Must possess L.C.E. Diploma in
Civil Engineering issued by the Board of Technical Education,
Government of Tamil Nadu or any qualification recognised as
equivalent thereto by the Government of Tamil Nadu.
6.
Age.
- No person shall be eligible for appointment by direct recruitment to the posts specified in Column (1) of the Table
below unless he has not completed or will not complete the age specified in Column (2) thereof on the 1st day of July of
the year in which selection for appointment is made.
Category
Age
(1)
(2)
1
35 years.
2(a), 2(c)
30 years.
4
30 years.
5
30 years.
Provided that in the case of candidate possessing the Post-Graduate Degree in Engineering from any Indian University
for appointment by direct recruitment to category 2(a), the age limit shall be increased by two years:
Provided further that a candidate belonging to Scheduled Castes or the Scheduled Tribes shall be eligible for
appointment by direct recruitment to categories 2, 4 and 5, if he will not complete the age of 31 years on the said date.
7.
Probation.
- A person appointed to the service by direct recruitment shall, from the date on which he joins duty, be on probation for
a total period of two years on duty within a continuous period of three years.
8.
Test.
(1)
Every person who are recruited directly and are probationers in the post of Assistant Health Officer shall, within the
period of their probation, pass the Account Test for Executive Officers. If a probationer in the post of Assistant Health
Officer fails to pass the above test he shall not be deemed to have completed his probation satisfactorily and shall not
be entitled to appointment as full member or to increments in the time scale of pay applicable to him unless and until he
passes the said test. But, such ineligibility for increments shall not operate to postpone the future increments after he
passes the said test. If such probationer does not pass the said test within a period of four years from the date of his
appointment, he shall be discharged from the service.
(2)
Every person who are recruited directly as Assistant Executive Engineers shall pass the Account Test for Public Works
Department Officers and Subordinates within four years from the date of appointment.
The penalty for failure to pass the test is stoppage of his increments, but the stoppage will not operate to postpone
further increments after they pass the test.
9.
Inter changeability of certain posts.
(a)
Page 8/9
----- PAGE 9 -----
The Madurai City Municipal Corporation Service Rules, 1981
The post of Manager category 3(a) and Assistant Account Officer (Category 3 (b) are interchangeable. Likewise, the
posts of Assistant Revenue Officers (Category 3(c) and Chief Accountant Category 3(d) are interchangeable.
(b)
Promotion Category 3(a) and category 3(b) shall be from the category 3(c) and category 3(d). Common seniority shall
be maintained between the categories 3(a) and 3(b). Likewise, common seniority shall be maintained between the
categories 3(c) and 3(d):
Provided that in case of category 3(a) falling vacant, it shall be filled up by transfer from category 3 (b) so long as the
former carries the monetary advantage like special pay and so long as the latter is willing to be appointed to the former
post. Otherwise, it may be filled up by promotion from categories 3(c) and 3(d) of the service:
Provided that the interchange of the categories 3(a) and 3(b) shall not be made to the monetary disadvantage of the
former against his will so long as that post carries special pay.
10.
Savings.
- Nothing contained in these rules shall adversely affect any person holding any of the posts referred to in these rules on
the date of coming into force of these rules.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 9/9