
----- PAGE 1 -----
Tamil Nadu Panchayat Establishment (Qualification, and Recruitment of Office Assistants) R...
Tamil Nadu Panchayat Establishment (Qualification, and Recruitment
of Office Assistants) Rules, 1981
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/88372837/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of  Tamilnadu- Act
Tamil Nadu Panchayat Establishment (Qualification, and Recruitment of Office Assistants) Rules, 1981
TAMILNADU
India
Tamil Nadu Panchayat Establishment (Qualification, and Recruitment of Office Assistants) Rules, 1981
Rule
TAMIL-NADU-PANCHAYAT-ESTABLISHMENT-QUALIFICATION-AND-RECRUITMENT-OF-OFFICE-ASSISTANTS-R
ULES-1981 of 1981
Published on 1 January 1981
Commenced on 1 January 1981
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 1981.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Tamil Nadu Panchayat Establishment (Qualification, and Recruitment of Office Assistants) Rules, 1981
1.
Qualifications and method of recruitment for appointment to any of the posts under Town Panchayats other than
provincialised categories in Town Panchayats, Part Time Posts, Basic servants and Menials paid from contingencies,
and fixed pay posts.
(a)
No person shall be appointed to any of the posts under a town panchayat specified in column (1) of the Table annexed
Page 1/11
----- PAGE 2 -----
Tamil Nadu Panchayat Establishment (Qualification, and Recruitment of Office Assistants) R...
to these rules by the methods specified in column (2) against each unless he possesses the qualifications specified in
the corresponding entry in column (3) thereof.
(b)
No person shall be appointed, -
(i)
to be a public health subordinate except in consultation with the District Health Officer;
(ii)
to a post in the water-works and drainage department, the maximum salary of which is not less than fifty rupees per
mensem, except with the previous approval of the Chief Engineer, Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board and in
case he is already a holder of a technical post in Town Planning Department except also with the previous approval of
the Director of Town and Country Planning;
(iii)
to a technical post in the town planning department except with the approval of the Director of Town and Country
Planning and in case he is already a holder of a post in the water works or the drainage department, except also with the
previous approval of the Chief Engineer (Tamil Nadu Water supply and Drainage Board):
Provided that the age limit specified in column (3) of the said Table shall, notwithstanding anything contained in the rules
relating to the general establishment, appointment and punishment of officers and servants of town panchayats, apply to
the appointment of a person for the first time to the corresponding post specified in column (1) thereof:
Provided further that the age-limit specified in column (3) of the table shall not apply to the appointment by transfer or
promotion of a person in the service of a Town Panchayat or any other town panchayat, subject, however, to the
condition that the appointment of a basic servant or worker of a Town Panchayat for whose appointment as such an age
limit has not been prescribed [if he is otherwise qualified] to any of the posts specified in column (1) of the Table below,
shall be permissible only if such basic servant or worker had entered the service of a panchayat before he attained the
age limit prescribed in column (3) thereof:
Provided also that unless otherwise expressly provided for in the table, this rule shall not adversely affect the
continuance in service of persons already in service in the posts specified in the table or the reappointment in their turn
of persons who have commenced probation in such posts, provided they were qualified and eligible to hold the posts
under the rules previously in force or have been granted exemption for purposes of appointment to or continuance in
such posts on a regular basis.
Annexure I
The Table
[See sub-rule (a) of rule 4]
Name of post
Method of recruitment
Qualification
(1)
(2)
(3)
Class-ICategory I-Bill Collector
By direct
(i) Must have completed  Secondary School
Leaving  Certificate; and
By Transfer from Record Clerk.
(ii) Must have completed  period of probation in
the  category of Record Clerk.
Category I- Record Clerk
By promotion from Office Assistant
(i) Must have
completed  S.S.L.C and(ii) Must be an approved  probationer in the
category of  Office Assistant.
By direct recruitment
Page 2/11
----- PAGE 3 -----
Tamil Nadu Panchayat Establishment (Qualification, and Recruitment of Office Assistants) R...
Must have completed S.S.L.C.
Public Health and Sanitation
Class-IICategory I-Health Assistant and FieldAssistant
By Direct recruitment
(i) Must possess a
Sanitary Inspector's certificate granted  by the Director of
Public  Health, Madras as the Chairman  Board of Examiners,
constituted  by the Government in this  behalf.(ii) Must not be more than 28  years of age:Provided that this clause shall 
not apply to appointment by
transfer from any other category.
Category II- Sanitary Supervisors or pubicHealth Peon.
By direct recruitment
(i) Must not have
attained the  age of 35 years Provided that  this shall not
apply to  appointment as Sanitary  Supervisor or Public Health
Peon or menial paid from  contingencies if he had entered
service under the town panchayat before he has  attained the
age of 28 years or to  the appointment as a Sanitary  Supervisor
or Public Health  Peon of an Ex. Army man or a  Peon or a
maistry who was  employed in connection with  Armed Reserve
Police or of Civil  Defence Scheme, as the case may  be; and
(ii) Must be able to read and  write Tamil.
Class IIICategory I-Town Planning Officer
By direct recruitment
(i) Must possess a
degree in  Civil Engineering or  Architecture of a University in
Tamil Nadu or from any other  University recognised by the
University Grants Commission specified in Annexure or(ii) Must have
passed section A  & B of A.M.I.E. (India) in Civil
Engineering; or(iii) Must have
obtained the post  licentiate diploma m Town and  Country
Planning of the Central Polytechnic Madras with three  years
experience in Town  Planning in any local body; and(iv) Must possess L.C.E. or  D.C.E. of the
board of Technical  Education of the Government of  Tamil Nadu
or any other  equivalent qualification  recognised by the
Government  of Tamil Nadu and must possess  experience in Town
and  Country Planning for a period  not less than five years in
any  local body.
By promotion
Must have worked in the post of  Town Planning
and Building  Inspector for a period of not less  than five years
in the case of  diploma holders and 10 years in  the case of
non-diploma holders  with minimum general  educational
qualification  prescribed in the Tamil Nadu  State and
Subordinate Service  Rules.
Category-2Town Planning and BuildingInspector
By direct recruitment
L.C.E. or D.C.E. of the Board of  Technical
Education of the  Government of Tamil Nadu or  any other
equivalent  qualification recognised by  Government of Tamil
Nadu.
Page 3/11
----- PAGE 4 -----
Tamil Nadu Panchayat Establishment (Qualification, and Recruitment of Office Assistants) R...
By promotion
(i) Pass in the
Draftsmenship (Civil) under the revised  syllabus introduced
from July,  1962 conducted by the  Government of India, Ministry
of Labour with experience in  Town Planning for a period of
not less than two years in Town Panchayats; or
(ii) Must have passed in  Craftsmanship in
Draftsman  (Civil) or Diploma in Draftsman  (Civil) trade
awarded by the  Director District General of  Employment and
Training,  Government of India or the  National Trade
Certificate in  Draftsman (Civil) Trade  awarded by the National
Council for Training in  vocational Trades, Government  of
India with two years  experience in Town Planning  Work in Town
Panchayats.
Class-IIICategory 3-Town Planning Tracer
By direct recruitment
(i) Pass in
Draftsmanship  (Civil) under the revised  syllabus introduced
from July,  1962, conducted by the  Government of India,
Ministry  of Labour
(ii) Must have passed  Craftsmanship in
Draftsman  (Civil) or Diploma in Draftsman  (Civil) Trade
awarded by the  Director General of Employment  and Training,
Government of  India; or the National Trade  Certificate in
Draftsman (Civil)  Trade awarded by the National  Council for
training in  Vocational trades, Government  of India.
Category 4-Surveyors
By direct recruitment
Matriculation Examination, of  the University of
Madras; or a  completed Secondary  School-Leaving Certificate
issued under the authority of the  Government of Tamil Nadu (the
holder of which is declared  eligible for the University  Course)
or any equivalent  examination held by any of the  other
Universities in India or the  minimum general educational
qualification as prescribed in the  Madras State and Subordinate
Service Rules provided that a  person appointed as a surveyor
shall, within the period of his  probation, pass the Deputy
Surveyors test specified in the  Annexure below:
Provided also that
nothing  contained in this rule, shall  apply to a person who
holds  Upper of Lower Subordinate  Certificate of the College of
Engineering Guindy, but such  person shall not be eligible for
confirmation in his appointment  Surveyor under a Town  Panchayat
until he passed the  Deputy Surveyor's test.  AnnexureDeputy Surveyor's
test.(1) Arithmetic up to
decimal fractions and square root(2) Handwriting
and dictation.(3) The whole of the book  entitled land
surveying for  village Karams.
(4) Survey Manual,
1923  Chapters I, II, III, VI and VII  whole Chapter X, rules 3
to 13  Chapter XI, rules 1 to 6 Chapter  XII, rules 1 to 30
Page 4/11
----- PAGE 5 -----
Tamil Nadu Panchayat Establishment (Qualification, and Recruitment of Office Assistants) R...
Chapter XIII,  rules 1 to 133 Chapter XVI, rules  16 to 36,
Chapter XVII, rules 241  to 279, Chapter XIX all Survey
instruments except  proportionate compasses, beam  compass, bow
compasses and  pantograph. Chapter XX  problems
(5) B.S.O. No.34 ABC except  appendices III,
IV, V, VI, VII, X,  XI, XII, XV and XVI.
Water Supply Establishment
Class IV-Category I-Water supply Overseer
By direct recruitment
(i) Should possess the Upper  Subordinate
Diploma for  Licentiate in Civil Engineering;  or
(ii) Diploma of Overseer of the  College of
Engineering, Guindy  or the Technological Diploma  Examination
Board, Madras; or
(iii) L.C.E Diploma or Licentiate  in Sanitary
Engineering  Diploma awarded by the  Technological Diploma
Examination Board; or
(iv) The group Certificate in  Sanitary
Engineering in the  Government Technical  examination with five
years  experience as Draughtsman  under a Municipal Council; or
(v) The new Overseer Diploma  of the College of
Engineering, Guindy
Category 2- Pipe Line Fitter, Grade I
By direct recruitment
A certificate of competency for  Waterworks Pipe
Line Fitter  granted under the authority of  Government of Tamil
Nadu.
By promotion
By promotion from Pipe Line,  Fitter, Grade II
Category 3-Pipe Line Fitter, Grade II
By direct
(i) A certificate of competency  :or Water Works
Pipe Line  fitters granted under the  authority of Government of
Tamil Nadu.
(ii) By promotion from Water  Supply Fitter.
Category 4-Water Supply Fitter
By direct recruitment
(i) A certificate of competency  for or Head
Water Works Fitters  granted under the authority of  government
of Tamil Nadu; or
(ii) D.M.E. of the Technological  Diploma
Examinations Board,  Madras.
Category 5-Pump Mechanic
By direct recruitment
(i) VIIIth Standard and
(ii) I.T.I. Certificate with not less  than 5
years experience as Pump Operator.
By promotion from Pump Operator Tube Well
Mechanic.
Category 6-Pump Operator and Tube Well
Mechanic.
Page 5/11
----- PAGE 6 -----
Tamil Nadu Panchayat Establishment (Qualification, and Recruitment of Office Assistants) R...
By direct recruitment
(i) VIIth Standard, and
(ii) I.T.I. Certificate with not less  than
three years experience (wiremen trade).
Category-7-Meter Reader
By direct recruitment
(i) Must have completed S.S.L.C.  issued under
certificate of the  authority of Government of  Tamil Nadu or
must have  appeared for any other '  examination which may be
considered by the Director of  School Education, Tamil Nadu  to
be equivalent to S.S.L.C. and
(ii) Must have experience in the  repair of
meter for a period of  two years; or
(iii) Must have undergone  training for a period
not less  than four months in a meter  manufacturing firm
approved  by the Senior Engineering  (Tamil Nadu Water Supply and
Drainage Board, Madras) in case  of candidates not possessing
the  experience mentioned in clause  (ii); or
(iv) Certificate for having passed  the trade
"instrument mechanic"  from any of the I.T.I, in the
State.
Street Light Maintenance
Class V-Category 1-Electrician, Grade I
By direct recruitment
(i) L.E.E. or equivalent  qualification as
approved by the  Chief Engineer, Tamil Nadu  Electricity Board;
or
(ii) Certificate in
Electric wiring issued by Polytechnic or  equivalent
qualification as  approved by the Chief Engineer,  Tamil Nadu
Electricity Board  with two years experience in the  type of
works concerned; or
(iii) Completed
S.S.L.C. with  practical experience for four  years in the type
of work  concerned; or
(iv) Group Certificate in the  electricity
engineering with one  year experience in the type of  work
concerned; or(v) Craftsmanship certificate in  the trade of
Electrical issued by  the Ministry of Labour and  Employment,
Government of  India.
By promotion
By promotion from the post of  Electrician,
Grade II.
Category 2-Electrician Grade II
By direct recruitment
(i) L.E.E. or equivalent  qualifications as
approved by  the Chief Engineer, Tamil Nadu  Electricity Board;
or
(ii) Certificate in Electrical  wiring issued by
the polytechnic  or equivalent qualification as  approved by the
Chief Engineer,  Tamil Nadu Electricity Board  with one year
Page 6/11
----- PAGE 7 -----
Tamil Nadu Panchayat Establishment (Qualification, and Recruitment of Office Assistants) R...
practical  experience in the type of work  concerned; or
(iii) Completed S.S.L.C with  practical
experience in electrical  operation and maintenance for a  period
of not less than five years  in the type of work concerned;
Category 3-Lineman Grade I
(a) By direct recruitment
(i) L.E.E. or
equivalent  qualifications as approved by  the Chief Engineer
Tamil Nadu  Electricity Board(ii) As in the
category 4  (Lineman Grade II); or As in the  category 4
(Lineman Grade II);(iii) Group
Certificate in Electrical Engineering with one year experience
in the type of  work concerned; or(iv) Craftsmanship certificate in  the trade
of lineman and  wireman issued by the Ministry  of Labour and
Employment,  Government of India.
(b)By promotion
By promotion from the category  of Lineman,
Grade II.
Category 4-
Lineman Grade II
By direct recruitment
(i) L.E.E. or
equivalent qualification as approved by the  Chief Engineer,
Tamil Nadu  Electricity Board; or(ii) Certificate in Electricity  wiring issued
by the  Polytechnics or equivalent.  Qualification as approved
by the  Chief Engineer Tamil Nadu  Electricity Board, with one
year  practical experience in the type  of work concerned; or
(iii) Completed
S.S.L.C. with practical experience in Electrical Operation and
maintenance for  a period of not less than five  years in the
type of work  concerned; or(iv) Group
Certificate in  Electrical Engineering with one year experience
in the type of  work concerned; or(v) Craftsmanship certificate in the trade
of Lineman and  wireman issued by the Ministry  of Labour and
Employment,  Government of India.
Miscellaneous
Class VICategory 1 -Trac-tor Driver
By direct recruitment
(i) A pass in VII
Standard(ii) Possession of driving licence  for heavy
vehicle without police  or Magisterial endorsement and
experience in lorry driving for  five years of which at least
three  years must be in driving heavy  vehicles.
Chapter-II
Constitution of separate service for a particular category. - (a) Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing rules,
the Director of Town Panchayat may with the previous sanction of Government by notification constitute a separate
service for the whole of the State for any category of employees of town panchayats with effect from a date which shall
be specified in the notification.
(b)
On the constitution of the said service under sub-rule (a) the following special provisions shall apply to the members of
such service namely:
Page 7/11
----- PAGE 8 -----
Tamil Nadu Panchayat Establishment (Qualification, and Recruitment of Office Assistants) R...
(i)
The cadre of the service shall include all the posts in the said category in Town Panchayats on the date of constitution of
the service and those that may be sanctioned by Director of Town Panchayats,
(ii)
The Director of Town Panchayats shall sanction the creation or abolition of posts included in the service.
(iii)
The District Town Panchayat Officer shall be the authority:
(a)
to make appointments to the service (including temporary appointments);
(b)
to order extension or termination of probation or to declare satisfactory completion of probation in the case of any
member of the service;
(c)
to confirm any member of the service in a Permanent vacancy;
(d)
to promote any member of the service from one grade to another;
(e)
to order transfer and postings of the members of the service; and
(f)
to have disciplinary control, initiate disciplinary proceedings and to inflict penalties on the members of the service.
(iv)
The District Town Panchayat Officer may, at his discretion empower an officer of the department not lower in rank than a
Tahsildar to exercise all or any of the powers specified in clause (iii) in respect of the members of the service working in
Town Panchayats within their respective jurisdiction.
(v)
Where any order of punishment is passed against a member of the service, an appeal shall lie to the District Town
Panchayat Officer if the order is passed by the Executive Officer and to the Director of Town Panchayats if the order is
passed by the District Town Panchayats officer.
(vi)
Government shall be the revision authority in respect of orders passed by the Director of Town Panchayats under this
rule.
(vii)
The Director of Town Panchayats shall be competent to issue directions from time to. time on any matter relating to pay,
conditions of service and discipline and conduct of the members of the service.
(2)
The provisions in rule 1 to 28 of General rules Part II shall also apply to the members of the service constituted under
sub-rule (a) to such extent as these rules are not inconsistent with the special provisions in sub-rule (b) and where there
is inconsistency in any of the provisions of the said rules the District Town Panchayat Officers shall have over-riding
powers over the Executive Authority in matters relating to discipline, control and supervision under these rules.
Annexure
List of Indian Universities Recognised by the university Grants Commission Under the University Grants Commission
Act, 1959 (Central Act 308 of 1956)
1. Agra University, Agra.
2.
Aligarh Muslim University, Aligarh.
3.
Allahabad University, Allahabad.
4.
Andhra University, Waltair.
5.
Andhra Pradesh Agricultural University, Rajendranagar, Hyderabad.
Page 8/11
----- PAGE 9 -----
Tamil Nadu Panchayat Establishment (Qualification, and Recruitment of Office Assistants) R...
6.
Annamalai University, Annamalainagar,
7.
Banaras Hindu University, Varanashi.
8.
Bangalore University, Mathematics Block, Central College, Bangalore.
9.
Bhagalpur University, Bhagalpur.
10.
Bihar University, Muzaffarpur (Bihar).
11.
Bombay University, Bombay.
12.
Burdwan University, Burdwan (West Bengal)
13.
Calcutta University, Calcutta.
14.
Dibrugarh University, Dibrugarh.
15.
Delhi University, Delhi.
16.
Gauhati University, Gauhati.
17.
Gorakpur University, Gorakpur.
18.
Gujarat University, Ahmedabad.
19.
Indira Kala Sangit Vidyalaya, Khairgarh.
20.
Indore University, Indore.
21.
Jabalpur University, Jabalpur (Madhya Pradesh).
22.
Jadavpur University, Jadavpur (Calcutta-32).
23.
Jammu and Kashmir University, Srinagar.
24.
Jawaharlal Krish Viswa-Vidyalaya, Jabalpur.
25.
Jiwaji University, Gwalior.
26.
Jodhpur University, Jodhpur.
27.
Kalyani University, P.O. Kalyani (West Bengal).
28.
Kameshwar Singh Darbhanga Sanskrit University, Dharbhanga.
29.
Karnatak University, Dharwar.
30.
Kerala University, Trivandrum.
31.
Page 9/11
----- PAGE 10 -----
Tamil Nadu Panchayat Establishment (Qualification, and Recruitment of Office Assistants) R...
Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra.
32.
Lucknow University, Lucknow.
33.
Madras University, Madras.
34.
Magadh University, Bodhgaya.
35.
Maharaja Sayajirao University, Baroda.
36.
Marathwada University, Aurangabad (Da.)
37.
Mysore University, Mysore.
38.
Nagpur University, Nagpur.
39.
North Bengal University, Raja Ram Mohanpur, Darjeeling.
40.
Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology, Bhubaneswar.
41.
Osmania University, Hyderabad.
42.
Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana.
43.
Punjab University, Chandigarh.
44.
Punjabi University, Patiala.
45.
Patna University, Patna.
46.
Poona University, Poona.
47.
Rabindra Bharati, Calcutta.
48.
Rajasthan University, Jaipur.
49.
Ranchi University, Ranchi.
50.
Ravi Shankar University, Raipur.
51.
Roorkee University, Roorkee.
52.
Sardar Patel University, Vellanu Vidhayanagar, Gujarat.
53.
Sagar University, Sagar.
54.
Shivaji University, Kolapur.
55.
Sreemati Nathibai Damodar Thackersey Women's University, Bombay
56.
Sri Venkateswara University, Thirupathi, Andhra.
Page 10/11
----- PAGE 11 -----
Tamil Nadu Panchayat Establishment (Qualification, and Recruitment of Office Assistants) R...
57.
Udaipur University, Udaipur..
58.
University of Agricultural Science, Hebbal, Bangalore.
59.
Uthkal University, Vanity Vihar, Post Office, Utkal University, Bhuvaneshvar (puu Orissa).
60.
Uttar Pradesh Agricultural University, Pantanagar (Nainital).
61.
Varanaseya Sanskrit Visbya Vidhyalaya, Vamasi.
62.
Vikram University, Ujjain.
63.
Viswa Bharathi, Santhiniketan.
64.
Madurai Kamaraj University, Madurai.
65.
Bharathiar University, Coimbatore.
66.
Bharathidasan Universi ty, Tiruchirappalli.
67.
Anna University, Madras.
68.
Dr. Alagappa University, Karaikudi.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 11/11