
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Madurai City Municipal Corporation Class III Education Service Rules, 1981
The Madurai City Municipal Corporation Class III Education Service
Rules, 1981
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/123245085/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of  Tamilnadu- Act
The Madurai City Municipal Corporation Class III Education Service Rules, 1981
TAMILNADU
India
The Madurai City Municipal Corporation Class III Education Service Rules, 1981
Rule THE-MADURAI-CITY-MUNICIPAL-CORPORATION-CLASS-III-EDUCATION-SERVICE-RULES-1981 of 1981
Published on 10 June 1981
Commenced on 10 June 1981
[This is the version of this document from 10 June 1981.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Madurai City Municipal Corporation Class III Education Service Rules, 1981
Published vide Notification G.O. Ms. No. 1090, Rural Development Local Administration, dated 10th June 1981
No. SRO A-218/81. - In exercise of the power conferred by sub-section (1) of section 431 read with sub-section (1) of
section 106 of the Madurai City Municipal Corporation Act, 1971 (Tamil Nadu Act
15 of 1971
), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following rules:-
1.
Short title.
- These rules may be called the Madurai City Municipal Corporation Class III Educational Service Rules, 1981.
Page 1/6
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Madurai City Municipal Corporation Class III Education Service Rules, 1981
2.
Constitution.
- The service shall consist of the following Branches and Categories, namely:-
Branch I-
Category 1 - Headmaster (Grade 1) of Secondary Schools having strength over 1,000 pupils.
Category 2 - Headmaster (Grade 2) of Secondary Schools having strength less than 1,000 pupils
Branch II-
Category 1. - Graduates Trained Assistant including Graduate Trained Headmaster of Middles Schools.
Category 2. - Tamil Pandit.
Category 3. - Secretarial Assistant.
Branch III -
Textile Instructor (Junior)
Branch IV-
Category 1. - Commercial Instructor.
Category 2. - Physical Educational Teacher (Higher Grade).
Category 3. - Physical Educational Teacher (Lower Grade).
Category 4. - Weaving Instructor.
Category 5. - Craft Instructor.
Category 6. - Sewing Mistress.
Category 7. - Drawing Instructor (Master and Mistress.)
Category 8. - Music Mistress.
Category 9. - Swimming Instructor.
Branch V-
Category 1. - Supervisor of Elementary Schools.
Category 2. - Secondary Grade Headmaster.
Category 3. - Secondary Grade Assistant.
Category 4. - Higher Grade Assistant.
3.
Method of appointment.
- Appointment to all branches and categories mentioned in column (1) of the Table below shall be made by the methods
specified in the corresponding entries in column (2) thereof.
Branch or category (1)
Method of appointment (2)
Branch I
Category 1. Headmaster (Grade 1) of Secondary
Schools having strength over 1,000 pupils.
Promotion from category 2 of Branch 1.
Category 2. Headmaster (Grade II) of Secondary
Schools having strength less than 1,000 pupils.
Promotion from categories I and 3 of Branch II
and category 2 of Branch II if the person in category II have
acquired the necessary qualification for promotion as Headmaster.
Branch II
Categories 1 to 3. Graduate Trained. Assistant
including Graduate Trained Headmaster of Middle Schools Tamil
pandit and Secretarial Assistant.
Promotion from any of the category in Branch TV
and from categories 1 to 3 in Branch V according to seniority. In
case no qualified and suitable candidate is available by
promotion then by direct recruitment.
Branch III
Page 2/6
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Madurai City Municipal Corporation Class III Education Service Rules, 1981
Textile Instructor (Junior)
Direct recruitment.
Branch IV
Category 1. Commercial Instructor
Direct recruitment.
Category 2. Physical Education Teacher (Higher
Grade.)
Do.
Category 3. Physical Education (Lower Grade)
Direct recruitment.
Category 4. Weaving Instructor
Do.
Category 5. Craft Instructor
Do.
Category 6. Sewing Mistress
Do.
Category 7. Drawing Instructor (Master &
Mistress)
Do.
Category 8. Music Mistress
Do.
Category 9. Swimming Instructor
Do.
Branch V
Category 1. Supervisor of Elementary Schools
Promotion from category 2.
Schools Category 2. Secondary Grade Headmaster
Promotion from category 3.
Headmaster Category 3. Secondary Grade Assistant
Promotion from category 4. In case no qualified
and suitable candidate is available by promotion then by direct
recruitment.
Category 4. Higher Grade Assistant
Direct Recruitment.
4.
Appointing Authority.
- The appointing authority in respect of all branches and categories in this service shall be the appointment Committee
5.
Qualifications.
- No person shall be eligible for appointment to the branches and categories mentioned in column (1) of the Table below
unless he possessed the qualifications specified in the corresponding entries in column (2) thereof.
Branches and categories
Qualifications.
Branch I
Category 1. Headmaster (Grade I) of Secondary
Schools having strength over 1,000 pupils.
A Degree of B.A. or B.Sc. with B.T., or B.Ed, of
any University recognised by the University Grants commission for
the purpose of its grant and experience for a period of not less
than five years in either of category 1 to 3 of Branch II. The
experience shall be reckoned from the date of acquiring B.T., or
Page 3/6
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Madurai City Municipal Corporation Class III Education Service Rules, 1981
B.Ed, degree.
Category 2. Headmaster (Grade II) of Secondary
Schools having strength less than 1,000 pupils.
A degree of B.A., or B.Sc. with B.T., of any
University recognised by the University Grants Commission for the
purpose of its grant and experience for a period of not less than
five years in either of category 1 to 3 of Branch II. The
experience shall be reckoned from the date of acquiring B.T., or
B.Ed., degree
Branch II
Category 1. Graduate Trained Assistant including
Graduate Trained Head-Master of Middle Schools.
A degree of B.A., or B.Sc. with B.T. or B.Ed of
any University recognised by the University Grants Commission for
the purpose of its grant.
Category 2. Tamil Pandit
B.A., degree in Tamil with L.T., B.T, or B.Ed.,
or
Category 3. Secretarial Assistant.
B.Com., with I.T.B.T. or B.Ed., or B.Com., with
Diploma in Teachers Training or D.Com., With T.T.C or Technical
Teachers Certificate in the subjects concerned.
Branch III
Textile Instructor (Junior)
(i) Minimum General Educational Qualification
S.S.L.C. completed; and (ii) Certificate obtained for
Supervisor's course in the Government Textile Instructor's
course: with experience for a period not less than one year in
teaching.
Branch IV
Category 1. Commercial Instructor.
B.Com., or D.Com., with untrained Technical
Teacher's Certificate with Higher Grade in Type-Writing.
Category 2. Physical Education Teacher (Higher
Grade)
Government Teacher's Certificate (Higher or the
Special Certificate issued by the Secretary of the Commissioner
for Government Examinations. Madras in Physical Education.
Category 3. Physical Education Teacher (Lower
Grade)
Governments Teacher's Certificate (Lower Grade)
issued by the Secretary to the Commissioner for Government
Examination. Madras in Physical Education.
Category 4. Weaving Instructor
Certificate for successful Completion of the
Artesian course or Instructor Course Certificate of the
Government Textile Institute and Technical Teacher's Certificate;
or
Government Technical Examination (Weaving in
Textile lower Grade and Technical Teachers Certificate; or
Certificate for Buranyee or Khadi Pravesika
Page 4/6
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Madurai City Municipal Corporation Class III Education Service Rules, 1981
Course (one year) of the All India Spinners Association, Tirupur
and Technical Teachers Certificate; or
Government Technical Examination (Higher) and
Technical Teachers Certificate.
Category 5. Craft Instructions
(i) S.S.L.C. and
(ii) Manual Training Certificate or Craft
Instructor's Course Certificate of the Teachers College,
Saida-pet Madras-15; or
Industrial School Certificate and Technical
certificate.
Branch V
Category 2. Secondary Grade Head master
Teachers Training School Leaving Certificate in
(Senior Grade).
Category 3. Secondary Grade Assistant.
Do.
Category 4. Higher Grade Assistant.
Teachers Training School Leaving Certificate
(Junior Grade).
6.
Qualification in Regional Languages.
- Teachers to be appointed in non-Government Secondary School should have studied the language of the medium of
instruction of the school either in the S.S.L.C. Course (in the case of Secondary Grade) or in the B.A., B.Sc, B.Com.,
Degree Course (in the case of Graduate Trained Assistants) and that this requirement shall also apply to the head of
these institutions.
7.
Probation.
- Every person appointed to any of the branches or categories in this service by direct recruitment, shall, from the date
on which he joins duty, be on probation for a total period of two years on duty within a continuous period of three years.
8.
Reservation of appointments.
- The rule of reservation (General Rule) 14 of the Madurai City Municipal Corporation Services Rules 1976) shall apply
separately to each of the categories when appointments are made by direct recruitment.
9.
Promotion according to seniority.
- All Promotions shall be made in accordance with seniority unless the promotion of a member has been with held as a
penalty.
Branches and Categories
Qualification
(1)
(2)
Category 5. Craft Instructor-cont.
Teachers Certificate.
Category 6. Sewing Mistress
Completed S.S.L.C. with Group Certificate in
Needle work and Dress making and Technical Teachers Certificate;
or
Industrial School Certificate in Needle work and
Dress making and Technical Teachers Certificate; or
A pass III From, E.S.L.C. or Equivalent; with
Page 5/6
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Madurai City Municipal Corporation Class III Education Service Rules, 1981
Industrial School Certificate and Technical Teachers Certificate
in needle work and dress making and Technical Teachers
Certificate.
Category 7. Drawing Instructor (Master or
Mistress)
A Pass in III From VIII Standard or S.S.L.C
equivalent with Government Technical Examination (Higher Grade)
in Free hand outline and Model Drawing and Technical Teachers
Certificate; or
A pass in III from VIII Standard or E.S.L.C. or
equivalent; with Government Diploma in Drawing and Technical
Teachers Certificate; or
E.S.L.C. with Government Teaching Examination
(Higher Grade) in Free hand outline and Model Drawing and
Technical Teachers Certificate; or
S.S.L.C. with Government Diploma in Drawing and
Technical Teachers Certificate; or
B.A. degree with drawing and painting under part
III and Technical Teachers Certificate.
Category 8. Music Mistress
A Degree or Diploma in Music or Title of
Sangitha Sironmani or Sangitha Sironmani or Sangitha Bhushana
with S.S.L.C or Matriculation.
Category 9. Swimming Instructor
(i) S.S.L.C. with First-Aid Certificate.
(ii) Experience for a period of not less than
Five Years in Swimming; and
Category 7. Drawing Instructor (Master and
Mistress).
(iii) Pass in Course approved by the Director of
School Education.
Branch V
Category 1. Supervisor of Elementary Schools :-
Teachers Training School Leaving Certificate in
(Senior Grade).
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 6/6