
----- PAGE 1 -----
Tamil Nadu Home Guards Welfare and Benevolent Fund Rules, 1990
Tamil Nadu Home Guards Welfare and Benevolent Fund Rules, 1990
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/81672791/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of  Tamilnadu- Act
Tamil Nadu Home Guards Welfare and Benevolent Fund Rules, 1990
TAMILNADU
India
Tamil Nadu Home Guards Welfare and Benevolent Fund Rules, 1990
Rule TAMIL-NADU-HOME-GUARDS-WELFARE-AND-BENEVOLENT-FUND-RULES-1990 of 1990
Published on 11 July 1990
Commenced on 11 July 1990
[This is the version of this document from 11 July 1990.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Tamil Nadu Home Guards Welfare and Benevolent Fund Rules, 1990
Published vide Notification No. G. O. Ms. No. 1635, Home (Police-H), dated 11th July 1990
Published in Part III-Section 1(a) of Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, dated 1st August 1990 (Issue No. 30).
1.
Short title.
- These Rules shall be called the Tamil Nadu Home Guards Welfare and Benevolent Fund Rules, 1990.
2.
Definitions.
- In these Rules, unless the context otherwise require,-
(a)
"Fund" means the Tamil Nadu Home Guards Welfare and Benevolent Fund;
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
Tamil Nadu Home Guards Welfare and Benevolent Fund Rules, 1990
(b)
"Beneficiary" means a member of the Home Guards both voluntary member and permanent staff below the rank of a
Company Commander entitled to the financial assistance from the Fund and includes-
(i)
a dependent, as defined hereinafter;
(ii)
a member of the Home Guards who is invalidated out of service on medical grounds attributable to Home Guards duty
or training;
(c)
"Dependent" means wife, non-earning son up to the age of twenty-one years and non-earning unmarried daughter of a
male member of the Home Guards;
(d)
"Duty" means duty done or training undergone by a member of the Home Guards who is called up for duty (including
training) under the orders of the Home Guards authorities authorised by the Government.
3.
Sources of the Fund.
- The Fund shall be constituted of-
(a)
voluntary payments received from the members of the Home Guards;
(b)
grants received from the Central or any State Government;
(c)
voluntary payment and donations received from the Central or any State Government, public sector undertakings or
nationalised banks;
(d)
subscriptions received from the members of the Fund as per the rate as may be fixed by the Managing Committee of the
Fund.
4.
Objects of the Fund.
- The objects of the Fund are-
(a)
to provide financial assistance in the following manner:-
(i)
One time lump sum grant to the dependents of the deceased members of the Home Guards who die while on duty. The
maximum financial assistance shall be Rs. 2,500.
(ii)
One time lumpsum grant to the injured or disabled members of the Home Guards who got injured or disabled while on
duty. The maximum financial assistance shall be Rs. 1,500.
(iii)
One time lumpsum grant to the members of the Home Guards in distress situation while on duty. The maximum financial
assistance shall be Rs. 1,000.
(iv)
One time lump sum grant in deserving cases, to the children of deceased or disabled members of the Home Guards for
educational purposes like purchasing of books, stationery up to a maximum of two children to the maximum of Rs. 300
per child up to school level and Rs. 1,600 each at college level.
(v)
One time lumpsum grant for marriage of daughter of deceased or disabled members of the Home Guards who died or
got disabled while on duty. The maximum financial assistance shall be Rs. 2,500.
(vi)
One time lumpsum grant for the purpose of purchasing machines for self employment, to the widow, family of deceased
or disabled members of the Home Guards for their livelihood in deserving cases. The maximum financial assistance
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
Tamil Nadu Home Guards Welfare and Benevolent Fund Rules, 1990
shall be Rs. 2,000;
(b)
to provide funds for welfare activities including welfare centre at the Home Guards Units, Central Training Institute or
District Training Centres;
(c)
to provide sports, cultural, educational, recreational activities including making provision of information, recreational
rooms and libraries in the Home Guards Units, Central Training Institute or District Training Centres.
5.
Administration of Fund.
(a)
The Fund shall be administered by a Managing Committee to be constituted by the Government of Tamil Nadu. The
Managing Committee shall consist of the following members:-
(i)
Commandant General, Home Guards - Chairman;
(ii)
Deputy Commandant General, Home Guards or Senior Staff Officer - Member Secretary;
(iii)
One Officer not below the rank of Under Secretary to Government from the Home or Finance Department to be
nominated by the Government of Tamil Nadu - Member;
(iv)
One other officer from the District Home Guards to be nominated by the Commandant General of Home Guards for a
period of four years by rotation-Member;
(v)
The Accounts Officer, Office of the Director-General of Police, [Chennai]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras (Alteration of Name) Act, 1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996).]
- Member.
(b)
The Managing Committee shall decide all cases in respect of investment of fund, quantum of financial assistance and
any other matter that may not have been provided for in these rules. All money of the Fund shall be provided in postal
cash certificates, other Government Securities or fixed deposits with the nationalised banks or with public sector
undertakings, except such amount as may be required for current working expenses, which shall be kept in a Savings
Bank Account with a nationalised bank. The Director-General of Police is the authority competent to operate all such
accounts.
6.
Meeting of the Managing Committee.
(a)
The Managing Committee may meet as often as necessary but shall meet at least twice a year to pass the budget and
approve the expenditure.
(b)
The quorum for a meeting of the Managing Committee shall be three including the Chairman or Member-Secretary.
(c)
The Managing Committee may make subsidiary rules for the administration of the Fund which shall not be inconsistent
with these rules.
7.
Remuneration of the members of the Managing Committee.
- The Members of the Managing Committee being officers shall not be entitled to any remuneration.
8.
Provision of Staff.
- The Deputy Commandant General, Home Guards shall provide necessary staff for the clerical work of the Managing
Committee.
9.
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
Tamil Nadu Home Guards Welfare and Benevolent Fund Rules, 1990
Accounts and audit.
- The Accountant-General, Tamil Nadu may audit the Accounts of the Fund.
10.
Periodical report.
- The annual report showing the schemes, financial position and number of beneficiaries under each scheme from the
Fund and the annual audited statement of account,shall be submitted to the Government of Tamil Nadu as well as to the
Ministry of Homes Affairs,Government of India within six months of the close of the financial year.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4