
----- PAGE 1 -----
Tamil Nadu District Panchayat (Payment of Travelling Allowance To Members) Rules, 1997
Tamil Nadu District Panchayat (Payment of Travelling Allowance To
Members) Rules, 1997
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/92023976/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of  Tamilnadu- Act
Tamil Nadu District Panchayat (Payment of Travelling Allowance To Members) Rules, 1997
TAMILNADU
India
Tamil Nadu District Panchayat (Payment of Travelling Allowance To Members) Rules, 1997
Rule TAMIL-NADU-DISTRICT-PANCHAYAT-PAYMENT-OF-TRAVELLING-ALLOWANCE-TO-MEMBERS-RULES-1997
of 1997
Published on 9 June 1997
Commenced on 9 June 1997
[This is the version of this document from 9 June 1997.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Tamil Nadu District Panchayat (Payment of Travelling Allowance To Members) Rules, 1997
Published vide Notification No. G.O. Ms. No. 177, Rural Development (C-1), Dated the 9th June 1997 - S.R.O A-71/97
G.O. Ms. No. 177. - In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (x) of sub-section (2) of section 242 of the Tamil Nadu
Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act
21 of 1994
), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following Rules: -
1.
Short title.
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
Tamil Nadu District Panchayat (Payment of Travelling Allowance To Members) Rules, 1997
- These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu District Panchayats (Payments of Travelling Allowance of Members) Rules,
1997.
2.
Definition.
- In the Rules, -
(1)
"Act" means the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act
21 of 1994
); and
(2)
all other words and expression used in these rules, but not defined therein shall have the meanings respectively
assigned to them in the Act.
3.
Every member who attends a meeting of the District Panchayat shall be entitled to travelling allowance, daily allowance
and sitting fees as may be notified by the Government, from time to time.
4.
Elected members of the District Panchayat need not produce certificates that they travelled by the class by which
travelling allowance is claimed. Such certificates need not be insisted on in passing the claim.
5.
The above rates of travelling allowance, mileage and daily allowance will apply to elected members when they are
deputed on an enquiry or inspection either as single person or a committee.
6.
(1)
When any elected member of the District Panchayat claims travelling allowance and daily allowance for journeys or halts
made for any business connected with a meeting of the District Panchayat, the claim shall be preferred to the Chief
Executive Officer in the form, specified in that behalf by him.
(2)
Claim for travelling and daily allowance shall be preferred by a elected member within a period of two months from the
date of completion of journey for which the claim is preferred.
(3)
Other member shall draw their travelling and daily allowance from the source from the claim is preferred.
(4)
In preferring the claim against the Government, a certificate to the effect that a member himself has not claimed or
drawn any travelling or daily allowance from any other source for the same period shall be furnished by him in the Bills.
7.
(1)
The claim for travelling and daily allowances of elected members shall, after scrutiny and counter-signature by the Chief
Executive Officer or any person authorized by him in this behalf, be drawn by him and disbursed to the members.
(2)
Before counter-signing the travelling allowance bills of members of the State Legislature and the Members of
Parliament, the Chief Executive Officer or any person authorized by him in this behalf should ascertain from the
Legislative Assembly Secretariat, whether the members concerned have been paid any allowances for the same
journeys and period for which travelling allowance is claimed in their bills and the Legislative Assembly Secretariat shall,
after satisfying itself that no such payment has been made, furnish a certificate of non-payment when such bills are
referred to it.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2