
----- PAGE 1 -----
Advisory Committee Rules, 1997
Advisory Committee Rules, 1997
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/51158429/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of  Tamilnadu- Act
Advisory Committee Rules, 1997
TAMILNADU
India
Advisory Committee Rules, 1997
Rule ADVISORY-COMMITTEE-RULES-1997 of 1997
Published on 16 July 1997
Commenced on 16 July 1997
[This is the version of this document from 16 July 1997.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Advisory Committee Rules, 1997
Published vide Notification No. G. O. MS. No. 275, C.T. & R.E. Department, dated 16th July 1997 - SRO No. A-102(a)
1987
Published in Part III-Section 1(a) of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated 29th September 1997.
G. O. MS. No. 275, C.T. & R.E. Department, dated 16th July 1997 - SRO No. A-102(a) 1987. - In exercise of the powers
conferred by sub-section (4) of section 7 read with sub-section (1) of section 116 of the Tamil Nadu Hindu Religious and
Charitable Endowments Act 1959 (Tamil Nadu Act 22 of 1959), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following
rules, namely:-
1.
These rules may be called the Advisory Committee Rules, 1997.
2.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Advisory Committee Rules, 1997
A person who is or was a non-official member, shall be eligible for re-nomination. The Government may, at their
discretion, reconstitute the Advisory Committee at any time for its proper functioning.
3.
The Commissioner is the Member-Secretary ex officio and shall be the convenor of the meetings of the Advisory
Committee.
4.
The Advisory Committee shall meet at least once in six months and more often if need be as decided by the Chairman.
5.
The meetings of the Advisory Committee shall, ordinarily, be held at [Chennai]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras(Alteration of Name)Act,1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996.]
. However, the Chairman may, if he considers it necessary, at any time hold the meeting at any place outside [Chennai]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras(Alteration of Name)Act,1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996.]
.
6.
The quorum for the meeting shall be eight.
7.
Every meeting of the Advisory Committee shall be presided over by the Chairman and in his absence by the
Vice-Chairman. In the absence of the Chairman and Vice-Chairman, the members present may choose one from among
themselves to preside over the meeting.
8.
The question which may come up before any meeting shall be decided by a majority of votes and when the votes are
equally divided, the Chairman or the Vice-Chairman or the member presiding over the meeting, as the case may be,
shall have and exercise a second and casting vote.
9.
The minutes of the proceedings of the meeting shall be recorded in a book to be kept for the purpose and shall be
signed by the Chairman and in his absence by the Vice-Chairman or by the presiding member, as the case may be. Any
minute of dissent shall be recorded, if required by the dissenting member. The minutes book shall be kept in the office of
the Commissioner in his custody in the capacity as the Member-Secretary to the Committee.
10.
The subjects on the agenda before the meeting shall be taken up and disposed of in the order, in which they appear in
the agenda for the meeting unless the Chairman decides to give preference to any subject or subjects on the agenda.
No subject which is not in the agenda shall be taken up at a meeting except with the concurrence of the Chairman.
Within ten days from the date of the meeting, a copy of the minutes of the proceedings of the meeting shall be forwarded
to the Government and the members of the Advisory Committee by the Member-Secretary of the Advisory Committee.
11.
The Member-Secretary shall be responsible for the issue of notice of meeting, the preparation of agenda, the
arrangements for the meeting, for the custody of minutes book and communication of the proceedings of the meeting
and such other matters relating to the Advisory Committee, as may be prescribed by the Chairman, from time to time.
The Member-Secretary shall always be present at the meeting and shall produce such records as may be necessary for
the discussion of the subjects in the agenda.
12.
The Advisory Committee may make recommendations in respect of the following matters:-
1. Arrangements to be made by religious institutions for the propagation of the religious tenets and the steps to be taken
to enlist co-operation of the public in this regard;
2. Establishment and maintenance of schools or refresher courses for the training of Archakas, Adyapakas,
Vedaparayanikas and Othuwars and the study of Divyaprabandams, Thevarams and the like including the study of
Indian languages;
3. Establishment and maintenance of University or colleges or other institutions with special provisions for the study of
Hindu Religion, Philosophy or Sastras or for imparting instructions in temple architecture;
4. Amenities to be provided for securing the health, safety or convenience of the pilgrims visiting the institutions during
festivals;
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Advisory Committee Rules, 1997
5. Renovation of temples in need of repairs by enlisting the co-operation of the public;
6. General suggestions in accordance with terms of the Trust and usage in regard to the better administration of
religious institutions;
7. The preservation of architectural beauty of temples;
8. Ways and means of increasing the revenue of religious institutions; and
9. Sale of immovable properties vested with religious institutions.
13.
The members of the Committee shall be paid travelling allowance and daily allowance at the rates allowed to members
of First-Class Government Committees.
14.
(a)
The Commissioner shall be the counter-signing and drawing officer for travelling allowance bills of the members of the
Committee.
(b)
The Commissioner shall encash the travelling allowance bills of the members at the Pay and Accounts Office, [Chennai]
[Substituted for the word 'Madras' by the City of Madras(Alteration of Name)Act,1996 (Tamil Nadu Act 28 of 1996.]
and send the amount to each member by money order or by bank draft at the cost of the Government and the
expenditure on such cost shall be met from the permanent advance of the Commissioner.
(c)
In the case of the members of the Committee, who are also members of the Legislature or of the Parliament or of a
Metropolitan Corporation, a non-drawal certificate shall be obtained from the Legislative Assembly Department or from
the Secretariat of Parliament or from the Metropolitan Corporation concerned, as the case may be, before
counter-signature by the Commissioner.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3