
----- PAGE 1 -----
Tamil Nadu Municipal Engineering Service Rules, 1997
Tamil Nadu Municipal Engineering Service Rules, 1997
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/12191401/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of  Tamilnadu- Act
Tamil Nadu Municipal Engineering Service Rules, 1997
TAMILNADU
India
Tamil Nadu Municipal Engineering Service Rules, 1997
Rule TAMIL-NADU-MUNICIPAL-ENGINEERING-SERVICE-RULES-1997 of 1997
Published on 24 December 1997
Commenced on 24 December 1997
[This is the version of this document from 24 December 1997.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Tamil Nadu Municipal Engineering Service Rules, 1997
Published vide Notification No. G. O. Ms. No. 309, Maws (Me-3), dated 24.12.1997
Published in Part III Section 1 (a) of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 24th December 1997.
In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 303 read with section 77-A of the Tamil Nadu District
Municipalities Act, 1920 (Tamil Nadu Act V of 1920), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following rules: -
1.
Short title.
(a)
These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Municipal Engineering Service Rules, 1997.
(b)
They shall come into force with effect from the 24th December 1997.
Page 1/5
----- PAGE 2 -----
Tamil Nadu Municipal Engineering Service Rules, 1997
2.
Constitution.
- The service shall consist of the following categories, namely: -
Category I Superintending Engineer
Category II Executive Engineer/Regional Executive Engineer
Category III Assistant Executive Engineer
Category IV Assistant Engineer
3.
Appointment.
- Appointment to the posts specified in column (1) of the Table be shall be made by the methods specified in the
corresponding entries in column (2) thereof:
(1)
(2)
I.
Superintending Engineer
By promotion from Category II, namely, the
Executive Engineer including Regional Executive Engineer or by
deputation from Public Works Department or Highways and Rural
Works Department of the Government. Deputation will be
considered, only when no suitable person is available in the
Tamil Nadu Municipal Engineering Service.
II.
Executive Engineer including Regional Executive
Engineer
By Promotion from Category III.
III
Assistant Executive Engineer
By Promotion from the category of Assistant
Engineer or recruitment by transfer from Junior Engineer in the
Tamil Nadu Municipal Engineering and Water Works Service.
IV.
Assistant Engineer
By direct recruitment or by recruitment by
transfer from the post of Junior Engineers in the[Tamil Nadu
Municipal Engineering and Water Works Service and the ratio for
appointment between promotion from the post of Assistant Engineer
and recruitment by transfer from the post of Junior Engineer
shall be 3:1]
[Words 'Tamil Nadu Municipal Engineering and Water Works Service' substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 38, Municipal
Administration and Water Supply (M.E.II1), February 22, 2010.]
.
4.
Appointing authority.
- Appointing authority for the posts included in Categories I and II shall be the Government and in respect of Category III
and IV shall be the Commissioner of Municipal Administration.
5.
Qualification.
- No person shall be eligible for appointment to any of the posts specified in column 1 of the Table below by the method
specified in the corresponding entries in column 2 unless he possesses the qualification specified in the corresponding
entries in column 3 thereof.
(1)
Page 2/5
----- PAGE 3 -----
Tamil Nadu Municipal Engineering Service Rules, 1997
(2)
(3)
1. Superintending Engineer
By promotion
Must have put in a service of not less than 3
years as Executive/Regional Executive Engineer in the Tamil Nadu
Municipal Engineering Service or in any other service equivalent
thereto.
By Deputation
Person who are already working as Superintending
Engineer in the Public Works Department/ Highways and Rural Works
Department of Government with a B.E. Degree in Civil or
Mechanical Engineering recognised by the University Grants
Commission for the purpose of its grant.
2. Executive Engineer/Regional Executive Engineer
By promotion
(i) Must be an approved  probationer in the
category of Assistant Executive Engineer.
(ii) Must have put in a service of not less than
5 years as Assistant Executive Engineer in the Tamil Nadu
Municipal Engineering Service or in any other services equivalent
thereto.
3. Assistant Executive Engineer
By promotion
Must possess the
B.E. Degree in Civil or Mechanical or Electrical Engineering
with an experience of not less than 5 years as Assistant
Engineer (direct recruitment) or
(ii) Must have a
Diploma in Civil or Mechanical or Electrical Engineering of the
State Board of Technical Education and Training or any other
qualifications considered equivalent thereto and an experience
of not less than 10 years to Junior Engineer. and
(iii) Must have passed the Account Test for
Public Works Department Officers, Part I and II.
4. Assistant Engineer
By direct recruitment or by recruitment by transfer
Must have a B.E. Degree in Civil or Mechanical
or Electrical Engineering of any University or Institution
recognised by the University Grant Commission for the purpose of
its grant.
Note. - (a) The Junior Engineers on acquiring the qualification of the Degree in Engineering (Civil or Mechanical or
Electrical) shall be re-designated as Assistant Engineer from the date of acquiring such qualification.
(b)
The Executive Engineer and Assistant Executive Engineer working in Municipalities shall be designated as Municipal
Engineer Grade I and Municipal Engineer Grade II„ respectively. For appointment on transfer as Municipal Engineer
Grade III,, seniority being considered when merit and ability are approximately equal. Persons who have passed
Account Test for Public Works Department Officers,, Part I and II are alone eligible for appointment as Municipal
Engineer Grade III on transfer.
(c)
The Electrical Superintendents Grade I with a Degree in Electrical Engineering will be designated as Assistant Engineer
Page 3/5
----- PAGE 4 -----
Tamil Nadu Municipal Engineering Service Rules, 1997
(Electrical).
(d)
Every Twentieth vacancy in the category of Assistant Executive Engineer shall be filled up from among the qualified
Assistant Engineers/Junior Engineers with Diploma or Degree in Electrical Engineering (Water Works; Drainage;
Electrical Superintendent).
(e)
The ratio of appointment of Assistant Engineer by direct recruitment and Junior Engineer by promotion shall be 3: 1. The
category Assistant/Junior Engineer in the Municipalities shall be taken as a whole for fixing the strength and the total
vacancies arising in a particular year shall be filled upon by direct recruitment of Assistant Engineer and by promotion as
Junior Engineer from the post of Overseer/Draughtsman in the ratio of 3:1.
(f)
A probationer in the post of Assistant Engineer shall pass the Account Test for Public Works Department Officers, Parts
I and II within the period of the probation and if he/she fails to pass the said test, he/she shall not be deemed to have
completed his/her probation satisfactorily and shall not be entitled for appointment as full member and to increments in
the time scale of pay applicable to him/her unless and until he/she has passed the said test. If such probationer does not
pass the said Account Test Parts I and II within the period of five years from the date of his/her appointment, he/she
shall be discharged from the service.
6.
Age.
- No person shall be eligible for appointment to the posts in the service by direct recruitment, if he /she has completed or
will complete 30 years of age on the first day of July of the year in which the selection for appointment is made provided
that a candidate belonging to Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribe shall be appointed in the service by direct recruitment
if he/she has not completed 35 years.
7.
Promotion.
- Promotion to the posts shall be made on grounds of merit and ability, seniority being considered only where merit and
ability are approximately equal. The competent Authority shall prepare a panel of names of the eligible persons from the
feeder categories every year and send a list of approved candidates to the Appointing Authority.
8.
Savings.
- Nothing contained in these rules shall adversely affect any person holding any of the posts referred to in these rules on
the date of coming into force of these rules.
9.
Unit of appointment.
- The unit of appointment to the categories included in the Tamil Nadu Municipal Engineering Service is the State of
Tamil Nadu (All the Municipalities and Regions taken together).
10.
Pay.
- There shall be paid to the holders of the posts specified in Rules, a monthly pay in the time scale allowed to the posts
by Government, time to time with usual allowances, provided that the officers appointed at deputation will draw either
the pay drawn by them in their parent department or the pay applicable to the post whichever is advantageous to them.
11.
Procedure for recruitment.
- Direct recruitment. - Direct recruitment to the post of Assistant Engineer shall be made by State Level Selection
Committee.
12.
Probation.
- Every person appointed by direct recruitment shall, from- the date on which he/she joints duty, be on probation for a
total period of two years on duty within a continuous period of 3 years.
13.
Liability to serve in the armed forces.
Page 4/5
----- PAGE 5 -----
Tamil Nadu Municipal Engineering Service Rules, 1997
- Every person who is appointed to any category shall, within the first 10 years of his/her service, be liable to serve a
minimum period of 4 years (including the period spent on training) in the Armed Forces or on work relating to the
defence efforts anywhere in India or abroad, if required:
Provided that the liability to serve in the Armed Forces or on work relating to the defences efforts shall not ordinarily
apply to a person who is above 40 years of age at the time of his first appointment to the category or who has already
served during the period of his service in the Department.
14.
Reservation of appointment.
- The rule of reservation in General Rule 14 shall apply in the case of direct recruitment to Category IV.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 5/5