
----- PAGE 1 -----
Tamil Nadu Compulsory Elementary Education Rules, 1998
Tamil Nadu Compulsory Elementary Education Rules, 1998
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/77082582/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of  Tamilnadu- Act
Tamil Nadu Compulsory Elementary Education Rules, 1998
TAMILNADU
India
Tamil Nadu Compulsory Elementary Education Rules, 1998
Rule TAMIL-NADU-COMPULSORY-ELEMENTARY-EDUCATION-RULES-1998 of 1998
Published on 29 June 1998
Commenced on 29 June 1998
[This is the version of this document from 29 June 1998.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Tamil Nadu Compulsory Elementary Education Rules, 1998
Published vide Notification No. G. O. Ms. No. 241, School Education, Dated 29.6.1998
Published in Part IV-Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 6th October 1997 (Issue
No. 501).
In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 12 of the Tamil Nadu Compulsory Elementary
Education Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 33 of1995), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following rules: -
1.
Short title and commencement.
- (i) These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Compulsory Elementary Education Rules, 1998.
(ii)
They shall come into force with effect from 29th June 1998.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Tamil Nadu Compulsory Elementary Education Rules, 1998
2.
Definitions.
- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires "Act" means the Tamil Nadu Compulsory Elementary Education
Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 33 of 1995)
3.
Attendance at an elementary school.
- (i) The elementary school shall work for five days in a week and shall function for two hundred and twenty days in a
year. Each child shall attend not less than seventy-five per cent of the total working days.
(ii)
For each working day the elementary school shall function for five hours, namely three hours in the forenoon and two
hours in the afternoon. Normally the working hours shall be 9.30 a.m. to 12.40 p.m. with an interval often minutes with
four periods of forty-five minutes each and 2-00 p.m. to 4.10 p.m. with an interval often minutes with three periods of
forty minutes each.
(iii)
The working hours may be modified suiting the local conditions on getting permission from the District Elementary
Educational Officer concerned. If the school is to work on shift system, the total working days in a week shall be six days
and four hours in a day with six periods per day. The number of working days shall be two hundred and forty days. The
shift system shall be resorted to only on extraordinary circumstances permitted by the District Elementary Educational
Officer concerned.
4.
Elementary education.
- (i) Elementary education means education in subjects of Tamil, English, Mathematics, Science, Social Science,
Physical and Health Education, Life Oriental Education and Art and Value Education, up to Standard V.
(ii)
The pattern and duration of courses, curriculum, syllabus, courses of instruction, time table and text books shall be
regulated by orders of Government issued from time to time.
5.
School age.
- School age in relation to a child means, the period of life of a pupil from the date on which he attains the age of six until
he receive elementary education up to standard V in an elementary school or until he attains the age of fourteen.
6.
Powers and functions of the competent authority.
- The competent authority under this Act shall exercise the following powers and functions, namely: -
(i)
collection of up to date particulars regarding the number of the schools, pupils and children of school age in his
jurisdiction;
(ii)
conducting periodical review and personal verification of the particulars referred to in clause (i) and enumeration of the
same from time to time;
(iii)
organising meeting and cultural programmes etc., for cent per cent enrollment and retention;
(iv)
mobilising local resources for equipping the schools and supplying the required teaching and learning materials;
(v)
seeking improvement of the infrastructural facilities of the elementary schools with the help of parent-teachers
association;
(vi)
looking after the free supply of materials to children as may be sanctioned by the Government; and
(vii)
seeking the inter departmental co-ordination at all levels.
7.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Tamil Nadu Compulsory Elementary Education Rules, 1998
Time for submission of report to Government.
- The competent authority, who has been directed by the Government to make an enquiry or to take appropriate
proceedings under the Act in any case specified in that order, shall report to the Government, the result of the enquiry
made or the proceedings taken by him within thirty days from the date of conclusion of the enquiry or the proceedings.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3