
----- PAGE 1 -----
Tamil Nadu Grama Sabha (Quorum and Procedure for Convening and Conducting of Meetings) Rul...
Tamil Nadu Grama Sabha (Quorum and Procedure for Convening and
Conducting of Meetings) Rules, 1998
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/155216396/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of  Tamilnadu- Act
Tamil Nadu Grama Sabha (Quorum and Procedure for Convening and Conducting of Meetings) Rules, 1998
TAMILNADU
India
Tamil Nadu Grama Sabha (Quorum and Procedure for Convening and Conducting of Meetings) Rules, 1998
Rule
TAMIL-NADU-GRAMA-SABHA-QUORUM-AND-PROCEDURE-FOR-CONVENING-AND-CONDUCTING-OF-MEETING
S-RULES-1998 of 1998
Published on 17 July 1998
Commenced on 17 July 1998
[This is the version of this document from 17 July 1998.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Tamil Nadu Grama Sabha (Quorum and Procedure for Convening and Conducting of Meetings) Rules, 1998
Published vide Notification No. G.O. Ms. No. 150, Rural Development (C-l), dated the 17th July 1998 - No. SRO
A-39(b-l)/98
G.O. Ms. No. 150. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (5) of section 3 read with sub-section (1) of
section 242 of the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby
makes the following Rules: -
1.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Tamil Nadu Grama Sabha (Quorum and Procedure for Convening and Conducting of Meetings) Rul...
Short title.
- These Rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Grama Sabha (Quorum and Procedure for Convening and Conducting of
Meetings) Rules, 1998.
2.
Venue, day and time of meeting.
- The Grama Sabha in every Village Panchayat shall meet at a public place within the jurisdiction of the Village
Panchayat in each of the Ward by rotation on the date appointed by the President of the Village Panchayat or, as the
case may be, by the Inspector at 11.00 a.m. on any working day. No meeting shall be held on any public holiday unless
specifically notified in this behalf by the Inspector, or by the Government.
3.
Notice.
- For holding meeting of the Grama Sabha not less than seven clear days notice prior to the date and time of the
meeting and of the subjects to be deliberated shall be given in the manner specified below: -
(a)
by beat of drum in all the habitations of the Village Panchayat announcing the place, date, hour and agenda of the
meeting;
(b)
by a written intimation of the meeting to be displayed by a affixture in the office of the Village Panchayat and in a few
other conspicuous public places such as school building, noon-meal centre, television room, village temple, over-head
tank and so on; and
(c)
a copy of the notice and the agenda shall be sent to the Inspector not less than seven clear days before the date of the
meeting.
4.
[ Quorum for a meeting.
[Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 130, RD & PR (C4), dated the 25th September 2006.]
- No subject shall be taken up for deliberation at a meeting of the Grama Sabha unless to be present the number of the
members as specified in the Table below: -
SI. No.
Population of a Village Panchayat
Quorum for the meeting
(1)
(2)
(3)
1.
Up to 500
50
2.
501 to 3,000
100
3.
3,001 to 10,000
200
4.
Above 10,000
300
Provided that out of the quorum specified in column (3) of the Table above, one-third shall be women members, the
Scheduled Castes/Schedules Tribes members shall be in the same proportion to the quorum as the population of the
Scheduled Casts/Scheduled Tribes bears to the total population of the Village Panchayat.]
5.
Adjournment of the meeting.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Tamil Nadu Grama Sabha (Quorum and Procedure for Convening and Conducting of Meetings) Rul...
- If within half an hour after the time appointed for the meeting, the requisite quorum is not available, the meeting shall
stand adjourned to a date and time to be notified to the members by the Presiding Officer.
6.
Agenda.
- The agenda for the meeting shall be prepared by the President in consultation with the Village Panchayat. It shall
include a report on the action taken on the decisions of the previous meeting of the Grama Sabha.
7.
Presiding officer to preserve the orders in the meeting.
- The Presiding Officer of the meeting of the Grama Sabha shall preserve order at the meeting and decide all points of
order arising at or in connection with the meeting. There shall be no discussion on any point of order if decided by the
Presiding Officer and his decision shall be final.
8.
Observer of the meeting.
- Where the meeting of the Grama Sabha has been convened by the Inspector, the Inspector shall have right to send an
officer not below the rank of Block Development Officer as Observer who shall submit a report to the Inspector within
seventy-two hours of the completion of the Grama Sabha meeting.
9.
[ Attendance Register and recording of proceedings of meeting.
[Substituted by G.O. Ms. No. 130, RD & PR (C4), dated the 25th September 2006.]
- The attendance of the members of the Grama Sabha meeting shall cause to be recorded in a register maintained for
the purpose by the Presiding Officer of the meeting. The Presiding Officer shall arrange to record the proceedings of the
meeting by means of photograph.]
10.
Minutes.
- The minutes of the meeting shall be recorded in the same Register by the Presiding Officer and it shall be read out
before the conclusion of the meeting and the Presiding Officer shall then sign it. The minutes of the Grama Sabha
meeting shall be placed before the Village Panchayat at its next meeting for consideration and further action.
11.
Submission of the Minutes.
- A copy of the minutes of the meeting shall be submitted to the Inspector within three days of the date of the meeting.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3