
----- PAGE 1 -----
Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Surcharge, Disallowance and Charge) Rules, 2000
Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Surcharge, Disallowance and Charge) Rules,
2000
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/175326903/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of  Tamilnadu- Act
Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Surcharge, Disallowance and Charge) Rules, 2000
TAMILNADU
India
Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Surcharge, Disallowance and Charge) Rules, 2000
Rule TAMIL-NADU-PANCHAYATS-SURCHARGE-DISALLOWANCE-AND-CHARGE-RULES-2000 of 2000
Published on 11 February 2000
Commenced on 11 February 2000
[This is the version of this document from 11 February 2000.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Surcharge, Disallowance and Charge) Rules, 2000
Published vide Notification No. G. O. Ms. No. 32, Rural Development (C-4), dated 11th February 2000 - No.
SRO-A-13(a)2000
Published in Part III - Section 1(a) of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 16th February 2000.
In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (xvii) of sub-section (2) of section 242 of the Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act,
1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 21 of 1994) and in supersession of the rules relating to Surcharge and Disallowance on the
Manual on Panchayat Administration, the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following rules: -
1.
Short title.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Surcharge, Disallowance and Charge) Rules, 2000
- These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Surcharge, Disallowance and Charge) Rules, 2000.
2.
Surcharge and disallowance.
(1)
Any auditor, empowered by the Government, shall carefully and personally examine every case of loss or waste or
misapplication of money or property of the village panchayat or panchayat union or district panchayat and may disallow
every item contrary to law and surcharge the same on the person making or authorising the making of illegal payments
and may charge against any person responsible therefor, the amount of any deficiency, loss or unprofitable outlay
incurred by the negligence or misconduct of that person or of any sum, which ought to have been, but is not, brought to
account by that person and shall, in every such case, certify the amount due from such person.
(2)
It shall not be open to an executive authority of village panchayat or commissioner of panchayat union or secretary of
district panchayat whose negligence or misconduct has caused or contributed to any such deficiency or loss, to contend
that notwithstanding his negligence or misconduct the deficiency or loss would not have occurred, but for the negligence
or misconduct of some other person.
3.
Power of the Government.
(1)
The Government prescribe the following officers to exercise the powers referred to in these rules in respect of the funds
of every village panchayat or panchayat union or district panchayat within his jurisdiction: -
(a)
Assistant Director of Rural Development [(Audit)]
[Substituted for the word 'Panchayat' by the Notification published in Part III - Section 1(a), of the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 18th August 2000.]
in case of village panchayats (General Funds).
(b)
Director of Local Fund Audit in case of District Panchayats, Panchayat Union Councils and Village Panchayats (Scheme
Funds).
(2)
The auditor shall state in writing, the reasons for his decision in respect of every disallowance which shall be based on a
stated authority in respect of every disallowance, surcharge or charge and furnish by registered post, a copy thereof to
the person against whom it is made.
(3)
Even if the person to whom a copy of the decision of the auditor is furnished, refuses to receive it, he shall be deemed to
have been duly furnished with a copy of such decision within the meaning of sub-rule (2). The period of thirty days fixed
in rules 5 and 6 shall he calculated from the date of such refusal.
4.
Issue of surcharge certificate.
(1)
The auditor who is empowered to issue a surcharge certificate, before issuing a surcharge certificate, shall give a show
cause notice to the person concerned, calling upon him to state his defence about the proposed notice in writing within a
specified time which shall not be less than fifteen days. If such person desires to be heard in person, the opportunity of
personal hearing shall be given by the auditor. In such personal hearing, the auditor shall record the proceedings of
such hearing. The auditor shall issue surcharge certificate after taking into consideration the representation, if any, given
by the person concerned and the proceedings by the personal hearing. The show cause notice and the surcharge
certificate shall be in Tamil version.
(2)
Wherever the Collector, the Inspector or other competent authority lakes execution proceedings on behalf of a village
panchayat, panchayat union council or district panchayat in respect of which a surcharge certificate has been issued by
an auditor, the expenditure for such purpose shall be met from the Government initially and recovered from the funds of
the respective village panchayat, panchayat union or district panchayat.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Tamil Nadu Panchayats (Surcharge, Disallowance and Charge) Rules, 2000
5.
Appeal against the surcharge, disallowance or charge.
(1)
Any person aggrieved by the disallowance, surcharge or charge made, may, within thirty days from the date of the
receipt of service of the decision of the auditor, appeal to the Inspector, or any officer authorised by the Government in
this behalf to set aside such disallowance, surcharge or charge and the Inspector or such officer, after taking such
evidence as is necessary, may confirm, modify or remit such disallowance, surcharge or charge:
Provided that the Inspector or any officer authorised by the Government, may admit an appeal after the expiry of the
time specified in this sub-rule, but within sixty days if the appellant satisfies the Inspector or such officer that he has
sufficient cause for not preferring the appeal within the specified time:
Provided further that during the pendency of the appeal made under rule, the certificate of disallowance, surcharge or
charge, as the case may be, shall not be enforced.
(2)
Against the order of the Inspector or officer authorised by Government in this behalf under sub-rule (1), a second appeal
shall lie to the Government within thirty days from the date of receipt of such order. The Government may take into
account all the fact presented by the appellant and facts of the case and pass such order as they deem fit and proper.
Against the order of the Government, an appeal shall lie to the High Court within thirty days from the date of receipt of
such order.
(3)
Where an appeal is made to the High Court under sub-rule (2), the auditor shall be the sole respondent thereto and the
applicant shall not be entitled to make either the Inspector or any officer authorised by the Government or any other
person or Government as a party to the proceedings.
6.
Payment of due.
- Every sum certified to be due from any person by the auditor under these rules shall be paid by such person into the
bank or post office in which the funds of the village panchayat, panchayat union council or district panchayat, as the
case may be, are lodged within thirty days from the date of intimation to him of the decision of the auditor unless within
that time, such person has appealed against the decision to the Inspector or any officer authorised by the Government
and such sum, if not paid or such sum as the Inspector or such officer shall declare to be due, shall be recoverable in
the same way as an amount decreed by a Court by filing execution petition.
7.
Charge of interest on surcharge, disallowance or charge amount.
- Interest at the rate specified by the Government, from time to time, by general or special order or if no such order is in
current at the time of issuing a surcharge certificate at a rate not less than fifteen per cent per annum shall be charged
on the amount of disallowance, surcharge or charge due with effect from the day following the last date fixed for
payment of the said amount of disallowance, surcharge or charge in the certificate. The interest so charged on the
amount of disallowance, surcharge or charge, over due shall be specified in the certificate itself in precise terms as laid
down in section 34 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act V of 1908).
8.
Waiving of amount of disallowance, surcharge or charge.
- Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules, the Government may, at any time, direct that the recovery of the
whole or any part of the amount of disallowance, surcharge or charge certified to be due from any person by the auditor
under these rules shall be waived if, in their opinion that such a course is necessary, considering all the circumstances
of the case. The reasons for such waiver shall be conveyed in writing to the village panchayat or panchayat union or
district panchayat, as the case may be.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3