
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Chennai City Municipal Corporation Appointments Committee (Method of Selection) Rules,...
The Chennai City Municipal Corporation Appointments Committee
(Method of Selection) Rules, 1998
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/59964957/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of  Tamilnadu- Act
The Chennai City Municipal Corporation Appointments Committee (Method of Selection) Rules, 1998
TAMILNADU
India
The Chennai City Municipal Corporation Appointments Committee (Method of Selection) Rules, 1998
Rule
THE-CHENNAI-CITY-MUNICIPAL-CORPORATION-APPOINTMENTS-COMMITTEE-METHOD-OF-SELECTION-RULE
S-1998 of 1998
Published on 5 May 2000
Commenced on 5 May 2000
[This is the version of this document from 5 May 2000.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Chennai City Municipal Corporation Appointments Committee (Method of Selection) Rules, 1998
Published vide Notification Part 3-Section 1(a) of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, Extraordinary, dated 5th May
2000. (Issue No. 295)
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Chennai City Municipal Corporation Appointments Committee (Method of Selection)
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Chennai City Municipal Corporation Appointments Committee (Method of Selection) Rules,...
Rules, 1998.
(2)
These rules shall apply to the Chennai City Municipal Corporation.
(3)
They shall come in to force at once.
2.
Placing of list of names for selection of candidates before the appointments committee.
- For filling up of any vacancy or for any new post by direct recruitment, the commissioner shall call for a list of names
from the Employment Exchange concerned and shall place that list before the appointments committee.
3.
Method of selection of candidates by the appointments committee.
- The appointment committee in its meeting shall select the required number of persons from the list of names placed
before the committee by the commissioner in accordance with the relevant Service Rules, in force, and also in
accordance with any order, clarifications or guidelines issued by the Government under rule 6.
4.
Selection of candidates by the appointments committee by adopting rule of reservation.
- While selecting name from the list for appointment to any post, the appointment committee shall follow the rule of
reservation prescribed in the Service Rules in force in respect of that post.
5.
Time limit for convening meetings for selection of candidates.
- The appointments committee may, convene its meeting, at any time, as and when required in accordance with the
rules in force for convening of such meetings.
6.
Issue of orders, clarifications or guidelines by the Government.
- The Government may, from time to time, issue any order, clarification or any guideline for selection of candidates by
the appointments committee. In such cases, the appointments committee shall follow such orders, clarifications or
guidelines issued by the Government.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2