
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Procedure for Holding Inquiry by Adjudicating Officer Rules, 2004
The Procedure for Holding Inquiry by Adjudicating Officer Rules, 2004
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/35805542/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of  Tamilnadu- Act
The Procedure for Holding Inquiry by Adjudicating Officer Rules, 2004
TAMILNADU
India
The Procedure for Holding Inquiry by Adjudicating Officer Rules, 2004
Rule THE-PROCEDURE-FOR-HOLDING-INQUIRY-BY-ADJUDICATING-OFFICER-RULES-2004 of 2004
Published on 31 August 2004
Commenced on 31 August 2004
[This is the version of this document from 31 August 2004.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Procedure for Holding Inquiry by Adjudicating Officer Rules, 2004
Published vide Notification No. G.S.R. 563(E), dated 31st August, 2004
In exercise, of the powers conferred by Clause (v) of sub-section (2) of Section 176 of the Electricity Act, 2003 (36 of
2003), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules regulating the procedure for holding the inquiry by an
adjudicating officer, namely-
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Procedure for Holding Inquiry by Adjudicating Officer Rules, 2004.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the official gazette.
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Procedure for Holding Inquiry by Adjudicating Officer Rules, 2004
2.
Definitions.
(1)
In these rules unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Act" means the Electricity Act, 2003;
(b)
"adjudicating officer" means the adjudicating officer appointed under sub-section (1) of Section 143 of the Act.
(c)
"section" means a section of the Act.
(2)
Words and expression used and not defined in these rules but defined in the Act shall have the meanings respectively
assigned to them in that Act.
3.
Procedure for holding inquiry by adjudicating officer.
(1)
Whenever the Central Commission appoints an adjudicating officer, a copy of the appointment order shall be provided to
the person concerned.
(2)
In holding an inquiry under the Act, the adjudicating officer shall, in the first instance, issue a notice to the person
concerned requiring him to show cause within twenty one days from the date of issue of such notice, as to why an
inquiry should not be held against him.
(3)
Every notice under sub-section (2) shall indicate the nature of contravention alleged to have been committed.
(4)
If, after considering the cause, if any, shown by concerned person or where no cause is shown, the adjudicating officer
is of the opinion that an inquiry should be held, he shall for reasons to be recorded in writing, issue a notice for fixing a
date for the appearance of that person either personally or through an authorised representative.
(5)
The adjudicating officer shall provide an opportunity to the concerned person to produce such evidence as he may
consider relevant and necessary for the inquiry.
(6)
If any person fails, neglects or refuses to appear before the adjudicating officer as required under sub-rule (2), the
adjudicating officer may proceed with the inquiry in the absence of such person after recording the reasons for doing so.
(7)
The adjudicating officer, while holding an inquiry, shall follow as far as possible the same procedure as is followed in the
proceedings of the Central Commission in exercise of its powers and in discharge of its functions under the provisions of
the Act.
(8)
The adjudicating officer shall complete the inquiry within sixty days from the date of his appointment.
(9)
Where the inquiry may not be completed within the period of sixty days, the adjudicating officer may, after recording
reasons in writing, seek extension of time from the Central Commission for a further period of sixty days.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2