
----- PAGE 1 -----
Electricity (Removal of Difficulties) Order, 2005
Electricity (Removal of Difficulties) Order, 2005
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/120045790/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of  Tamilnadu- Act
Electricity (Removal of Difficulties) Order, 2005
TAMILNADU
India
Electricity (Removal of Difficulties) Order, 2005
Rule ELECTRICITY-REMOVAL-OF-DIFFICULTIES-ORDER-2005 of 2005
Published on 8 June 2005
Commenced on 8 June 2005
[This is the version of this document from 8 June 2005.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Electricity (Removal of Difficulties) Order, 2005
Published vide Notification No. S.O. 790(E), dated 8th June, 2005
Published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part II, Section 3(ii), dated 8.6.2005.
Whereas the Electricity Act, 2003 (36 of 2003) (hereinafter referred to as the Act) came into force on 10.6.2003.
And whereas Section 50 of the Act provides that the State Commission shall specify an Electricity Supply Code to
provide for recovery of electricity charges, intervals for billing of electricity charges, disconnection of supply of electricity
for non-payment thereof, restoration of supply of electricity, tampering, distress or damage to electrical plant, electric
lines or meter, entry of distribution licensee or any person acting on his behalf for disconnection supply and removing
the meter, entry for replacing, altering or maintaining electric lines or electrical plant or meter;
And whereas the distribution licensees have expressed difficulties in controlling theft of electricity and in taking
appropriate action in this regard;
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
Electricity (Removal of Difficulties) Order, 2005
And whereas enabling the distribution licensees for taking timely and appropriate action in cases of theft or diversion of
electricity has become necessary for the development of electricity industry and ensuring supply of electricity to all
areas;
And whereas taking measures conductive to development of electricity industry and supply of electricity to all areas are
objectives, amongst others, of the Act, as stated in its preamble;
And whereas the difficulties have arisen in giving effect to the provisions of the Act in controlling theft of electricity by the
distribution licensees;
Now, therefore, the Central Government, in exercise of its powers conferred by Section 183 of the Act hereby makes the
following order in respect of the electricity supply code in terms of Section 50 of the Act, not inconsistent with the
provisions of the Act, to remove the difficulties, namely.-
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
This order may be called the Electricity (Removal of Difficulties) Order, 2005.
(2)
It shall come into force on the date of publication in the official gazette.
2.
Inclusion of measures to control theft in Electricity Supply Code.
(1)
The Electricity Supply Code as specified by the State Commission under Section 50 of the Act shall also include the
following, namely:-
(i)
method of assessment of the electricity charges payable in case of theft of electricity pending adjudication by the
appropriate Court;
(ii)
disconnection of supply of electricity and removing the meter, electric line, electric plant and other apparatus in case of
theft or unauthorised use of electricity; and
(iii)
measures to prevent diversion of electricity, theft or unauthorized use of electricity or tampering, distress or damage to
electrical plant, electric lines or meter.
(2)
The above provisions in the Electricity Supply Code shall be without prejudice to other rights of the licensee under the
Act or any other applicable laws to recover the sum due and to protect the assets and interests of the licensee.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2