
----- PAGE 1 -----
Electricity (Removal of Difficulties) (Third) Order, 2005
Electricity (Removal of Difficulties) (Third) Order, 2005
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/120666330/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of  Tamilnadu- Act
Electricity (Removal of Difficulties) (Third) Order, 2005
TAMILNADU
India
Electricity (Removal of Difficulties) (Third) Order, 2005
Rule ELECTRICITY-REMOVAL-OF-DIFFICULTIES-THIRD-ORDER-2005 of 2005
Published on 8 June 2005
Commenced on 8 June 2005
[This is the version of this document from 8 June 2005.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Electricity (Removal of Difficulties) (Third) Order, 2005
Published vide Notification No. S.O. 792(E), dated 8th June, 2005
Whereas the Electricity Act, 2003 (36 of 2003) (hereinafter referred to as the Act), came into force on 10.6.2003.
And whereas the Clause (b) of the sub-section (1) of Section 86 of the Act provides that the State Commission shall
have powers to regulate electricity purchase and procurement process of distribution licensees including the price at
which electricity shall be procured from he generating companies or licensees or from other sources through
agreements for purchase of power for distribution and supply within the State;
And whereas the Appropriate Commission has the power to determine the tariff for supply of electricity by a generating
company to a distribution licensee in terms of Clause (a) of sub-section (1) of Section 62 of the Act;
And whereas some of the State Governments are getting free electricity from the power generated by various hydro
power generating companies in pursuance of the conditions relating to the development of the hydro power site;
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
Electricity (Removal of Difficulties) (Third) Order, 2005
And whereas such a State Government is not covered in the definition of the "generating company " in terms of
sub-section (28) of Section 2 of the Act, for the purpose of Clause (a) of sub-section (1) of Section 62 of the Act;
And whereas difficulties have arisen in respect of disposal of free electricity received by the State Government from
hydro power generating companies and related matters;
Now, therefore, the Central Government in exercise of its powers conferred by Section 183 of the Act hereby makes this
order in respect of discretion of the State Government to dispose off such electricity not inconsistent with the provisions
of the Act, namely:-
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
This order may be called the Electricity (Removal of Difficulties) (Third) Order, 2005.
(2)
It shall come into force on the date of [publication in the official gazette]
[Published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part II, Section 3(ii), dated 8.6.2005.]
.
2.
Disposal of free electricity received by a State Government from hydro power generating stations.
- The State Government receiving free electricity from hydro power generating stations shall have discretion to dispose
off such electricity in the manner it deems fit according to the provisions of the Act:
Provided that if such electricity is sold by the State Government to a distribution licensee, the concerned State
Commission shall have powers to regulate the price at which such electricity is procured by the distribution licensee.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2