
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Tamil Nadu Admission in Agricultural Institutions Rules, 2007
The Tamil Nadu Admission in Agricultural Institutions Rules, 2007
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/29033905/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of  Tamilnadu- Act
The Tamil Nadu Admission in Agricultural Institutions Rules, 2007
TAMILNADU
India
The Tamil Nadu Admission in Agricultural Institutions Rules, 2007
Rule THE-TAMIL-NADU-ADMISSION-IN-AGRICULTURAL-INSTITUTIONS-RULES-2007 of 2007
Published on 16 May 2007
Commenced on 16 May 2007
[This is the version of this document from 16 May 2007.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Tamil Nadu Admission in Agricultural Institutions Rules, 2007
Published vide Notification No. G.O. Ms. No. 191, Agriculture (AP.6), dated 16th May 2007, Published dated 16.5.2007 -
No. SRO A-19(a)/ 2007
In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Tamil Nadu Admission in Professional
Educational Institutions Act, 2006 (Tamil Nadu Act
3 of 2007
), the Governor of Tamil Nadu hereby makes the following Rules:-
1.
Short title.
- These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu Admission in Agricultural Institutions Rules, 2007.
2.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Tamil Nadu Admission in Agricultural Institutions Rules, 2007
Definitions.
- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(i)
"Act" means the Tamil Nadu Admission in Professional Educational Institutions Act, 2006 (Tamil Nadu Act
3 of 2007
);
(ii)
words and expressions used but not defined in these rules shall have the meaning, respectively, assigned to them in the
Act.
3.
Authority to make admission.
- The admission to every Government seat in Agricultural Institutions shall be made by the Tamil Nadu Agricultural
University, Coimbatore.
4.
Relevant subjects.
- The relevant subjects for admission to seats in Agricultural Institutions shall be as follows:-
(i)
Academic Stream:
(a)
First subject:
(i)
Mathematics for Group I students.
(ii)
Biology for Group II students,
(iii)
Botany for Group II(A) students.
(b)
Second subject: Physics.
Third subject: Chemistry.
Explanation. - Group I, Group II and Group II(A) shall mean the groups of study, as detailed in Annexure I to G.O. Ms.
No. 46, School Education (Q2) Department, dated 14-5-2004.
(ii)
Vocational Stream:
(a)
Any one of the subjects, namely, Biology or Chemistry or Economics or Home Science and Vocational Subject, including
theory and practical for the degrees, Bachelor of Science in Agriculture, Bachelor of Science in Horticulture, Bachelor of
Science in Forestry and Bachelor of Science in Home Science.
(b)
Any one of the subjects, namely, Mathematics or Physics and Vocational Subject, including theory and practical for the
degree of Bachelor of Technology in Agricultural Engineering.
The required Vocational subjects shall be as indicated in the fable below:-
Degree
Required Vocational Subjects
(1)
(2)
(1) Bachelor of Science in Agriculture. (2)
Bachelor of Science in Horticulture. (3) Bachelor of Science in
Forestry. (4) Bachelor of Science in Home Science.
Agricultural Chemicals or Crop Production or
Crop Production or Crop Protection or Small Farm Management or
Sericulture and Apiculture or Vegetables and Fruits or Spices and
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Tamil Nadu Admission in Agricultural Institutions Rules, 2007
Plantation Crops or Floriculture and Medicinal Plants.
(5) Bachelor of Technology in Agricultural
Engineering.
Agro-based Industry or Farm Mechanics and Post
harvest-Technology or Soil Conservation and Rural Construction
Technology.
5.
Determination of the Inter-se-merit.
- In cases where more than one student have got the same marks in the common merit list, the inter-se-merit among
such students shall be determined in the order of priority as specified below:-
(i)
Marks out of 50 in Mathematics or Biology or Botany.
(ii)
Marks out of 50 in Physics.
(iii)
Marks out of 50 in Chemistry.
(iv)
Date of birth-Eldest first.
6.
Information to be mentioned in the prospectus.
- Information relating to admission to the seats in Agricultural Institutions shall be given in the prospectus issued in this
behalf by the authority concerned.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3