
----- PAGE 1 -----
Guidelines in Respect of Grant of Affiliation, Staff List Approval and Admission of Studen...
Guidelines in Respect of Grant of Affiliation, Staff List Approval and
Admission of Students for Private Teacher Training Institutes
Recognised by Southern Regional Committee, National Council for
Teacher Education
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/180541085/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of  Tamilnadu- Act
Guidelines in Respect of Grant of Affiliation, Staff List Approval and Admission of Students for Private Teacher Training
Institutes Recognised by Southern Regional Committee, National Council for Teacher Education
TAMILNADU
India
Guidelines in Respect of Grant of Affiliation, Staff List Approval and Admission of Students for Private Teacher Training
Institutes Recognised by Southern Regional Committee, National Council for Teacher Education
Rule
GUIDELINES-IN-RESPECT-OF-GRANT-OF-AFFILIATION-STAFF-LIST-APPROVAL-AND-ADMISSION-OF-STUDENT
S-FOR-PRIVATE-TEACHER-TRAINING-INSTITUTES-RECOGNISED-BY-SOUTHERN-REGIONAL-COMMITTEE-NATI
ONAL-COUNCIL-FOR-TEACHER-EDUCATION of 2008
Published on 3 May 2008
Commenced on 3 May 2008
[This is the version of this document from 3 May 2008.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Page 1/14
----- PAGE 2 -----
Guidelines in Respect of Grant of Affiliation, Staff List Approval and Admission of Studen...
Guidelines in Respect of Grant of Affiliation, Staff List Approval and Admission of Students for Private Teacher Training
Institutes Recognised by Southern Regional Committee, National Council for Teacher Education
Published vide Notification No. G. O'. Ms. No. 94, School Education (U-1), dated 3rd May 2008
Published in Part 11-Section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette Extraordinary (Issue No. 132, pages 1-14), dated
the 5th May 2008.
Abstract
Teacher Education - Private Teacher Training Institutes. - Recognised by Southern Regional Committee, National
Council for Teacher Education-Grant of Affiliation, Staff list approval and Admission of Students-Guidelines-Issued.
Read:
(1) G.O. (Ms) No. 232, S.E., dated 17th June 1998.
(2) G.O. (Ms) No. 108, S.E. (U-l) Dept, dated 17th May 2007.
(3) From the DTERT Lr. Re. No. 1865/C3/2008, dated 7th February 2008, 28th February 2008, 4th March 2008 and 11th
April 2008.
Order
1.
In the letter third read above, the Director of Teacher Education Research and Training has stated that the Private
Teacher Training Institutes in the State who have obtained recognition from the Southern Regional Committee, National
Council for Teacher Education, Bangalore send proposals through the Principal of the District Institutes of Education and
Training concerned to the Director of Teacher Education Research and Training seeking approval to the Staff List of
those Institutions. On examining these proposals, it is noted that certain persons appointed in a particular Teacher
Training Institute are included in the staff list of another Teacher Training Institute also. Therefore, whenever such
instances of a person who is shown in the approved, staff list is found in the staff list seeking approval in respect of
another Institute, such staff list proposals are returned to the Institutes stating that one person cannot simultaneously
work in, two Institutes. Besides, there are also a large number of instances wherein bogus experience certificates are
produced by the Institutes with an ulterior motive of getting approval for the staff list. In the absence of counter-signature
by the departmental officers concerned, the experience certificates are not accepted for want of genuineness. When the
proposals for staff lists are returned for the above reasons, such orders are challenged before the Hon'ble High Court.
The Hon'ble High Court in many cases has -pointed, but that as no guidelines prescribing the procedure have been
issued by Government, returning the proposal pointing out the above nature of deficiency is not sustainable. The
Director of Teacher Education Research and Training has also stated that in the above context, it has become
necessary to frame certain guidelines governing the procedures for grant of approval for the staff list by the Director of
Teacher Education Research and Training. Further, he has also stated that in respect of colleges offering B.Ed., and
M.Ed., courses after getting recognition from NCTE, the Universities concerned in Tamil Nadu are granting affiliation to
such colleges, only after which the colleges concerned are entitled to make admission of students.
2.
The Director of Teacher Education, Research and Training has therefore requested that Government may contemplate
empowering the DTERT to grant Affiliation to the recognised Self-Financing Private Teacher Training Institutes by laying
down certain norms therefor. The DT3RT has also submitted a Draft Guidelines prescribing conditions for grant of
affiliation, grant of approval for staff list, approval for list of students, attendance and condonation, visits to institutes and
conduct of Diploma in Teacher Education examination and award of Diploma, etc.
3.
After careful consideration of the Draft Guidelines sent by the Director of Teacher Education Research and Training, the
Government hereby issue the following guidelines which shall come into force with immediate effect:-
I. Conditions for Grant of Affiliation to New Teacher Training Institutes. - 1. The application for affiliation and staff list
approval for the academic year should be submitted direct to the Directorate of Teacher Education, Research and
Training, Chennai-600 006 in duplicate on or before 31st May of the year for which affiliation is sought.
2. A Self-Financing Private Teacher Training Institute, seeking affiliation and approval for staff list from the DTERT,
Chennai-6, should submit the application in the Form prescribed in Annexure-I to Annexure-VI duly enclosing a copy of
the recognition order granted by the Southern Regional Committee, National Council for Teacher Education, Bangalore.
All applications for affiliation and staff list approval shall be processed and final decision, either granting
affiliation/approval to staff list or refusing the same shall be communicated to the institute concerned by 20th June of that
Page 2/14
----- PAGE 3 -----
Guidelines in Respect of Grant of Affiliation, Staff List Approval and Admission of Studen...
year.
3. Affiliation fee for D.T.Ed, course shall be Rs. 25,000 (Rupees Twenty-five thousand only). This amount shall be
remitted into the Treasury under the following head of account and the original Challan should be attached, to the
application:-
"0202 - Education, Sports, Art & Culture - 01 - General Education - 600 General - AG - Collection of Affiliation fees in
respect of Self Financing Private Teacher Training Institute". [DPC 0202 01 600 AG 0009]
4.
On receipt of application for grant of affiliation, the Director of Teacher Education Research and Training will instruct the
Inspection Committee, consisting of the following officers to take up inspection of the applicant institute:-
(i)
Principal of the District Institute of Education
and Training of the District concerned.
Convener
(ii)
Revenue Divisional Officer of the Division
concerned or his/her nominee.
Member
(iii)
Executive Engineer, PWD of the District
concerned or his/her nominee.
Member
(iv)
Chief Educational Officer of the District
concerned.
Member
5.
The following Documents/Certificates should be produced/should be made available to the Inspection Committee for
scrutiny:-
(i)
Original Trust/Society Deed indicating the member of the Trust/Society.
(ii)
Original Land Documents.
(iii)
Original building approval plan.
(iv)
List of equipments available and requirement as per syllabus.
(v)
Building Completion Certificate.
(vi)
Phase-wise Plan of Construction.
(vii)
Availability of water.
(viii)
Availability of sanitation.
(ix)
Building Licence, Stability Certificate.
(x)
Fire Protection Certificate.
(xi)
Colour photographs indicating the following:---
(a)
Page 3/14
----- PAGE 4 -----
Guidelines in Respect of Grant of Affiliation, Staff List Approval and Admission of Studen...
Front portion of the entire building in close view.
(b)
Back side of the entire building in close view.
(c)
Internal portion of at least one class room.
(d)
Internal portion of entire Institute with name board in close view.
(e)
Internal portion of library room.
(xii)
Classification of land - Agricultural, Industrial or Residential.
(xiii)
Availability of power supply and electrical connection as per norms.
(xiv)
Whether the building constructed is with reference to the approved building plan ?
(xv)
Hostel facility if any.
(xvi)
List of Teaching and Non-teaching staff.
6.
On receipt of. the report from the Inspection Committee and after satisfying that the conditions of affiliation are fulfilled,
affiliation will be granted by the DTERT, Chennai-6, the authority competent to grant affiliation in terms of section 14(6)
(a) of the Central Act 73 of 1993 and affiliation will be cancelled where recognition has been refused by NCTE in terms
of sub-section (b) of section 14(6) of the Central Act 73 of 1993.
7.
In the case of non-compliance or non-fulfillment of one or more conditions, a report will be sent to the Southern Regional
Committee, National Council for Teacher Education, Bangalore, regarding the factual position and affiliation will be
deferred till reply is received from the Southern Regional Committee.
8.
As per clause 8(10) of NCTE Regulations, dated 27.12.2005 and notified on 13.1.2006 and as per Clause 8(12) of
NCTE Regulations, dated 10.12.2007 the students shall not be admitted without affiliation.
II. Affiliation in respect of Existing Private Teacher Training Institutes. - 1. The Educational Agency of every Teacher
Training Institute which is a Private Teacher Training Institute and in existence on the date of publication of the
Guidelines in the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette, shall, before the expiry of six months from that date, make an
application to the competent authority, viz., the DTERT, Chennai-6 for affiliation to continue to rim such Institute.
2. Every such application shall:-
(a)
be in the prescribed form (Annexure-I to Annexure-VI)
(b)
be accompanied by such fee not exceeding Rs. 5,000 (Rupees Five Thousand only) to be remitted into the Treasury
under the following head of account and the original Challan should be attached to the application:-
"0202 - Education, Sports, Art & Culture - 01 - General Education - 600 General - AG - Collection of Affiliation fees in
respect of Self Financing Private Teacher Training Institutes". [DPC 0202 01 600 AG 0009]
III. Grant of approval to the Staff List. - 1. All the staff members including the Principal appointed in recognised Teacher
Training Institute shall possess the educational qualification and previous experience as stipulated by the National
Council for Teacher Education.
2. The experience certificate produced as proof of eligibility shall be obtained and counter-signed as follows:-
(i)
The Elementary Teacher Training Experience Certificate:-
- Should have been obtained from the Principal of the recognised Teacher Training Institute, wherein the candidate had
worked; and
Page 4/14
----- PAGE 5 -----
Guidelines in Respect of Grant of Affiliation, Staff List Approval and Admission of Studen...
- this certificate should be counter-signed by the Principal, District Institutes of Education and Training concerned as to
its genuineness.
(ii)
The Primary School Teaching Experience Certificate:-
- Should have been obtained from the Headmaster/Headmistress/ Principal of the School as indicated in Columns 2, 3
and this certificate should be counter-signed by the officers as indicated in Column 4 below as to its genuineness.
SI. No.
Management
Type of School
Authority from whom Counter- signature to be
obtained
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
1.
Government/Corporation/ Municipal /Aided/Panchay
at Union
Primary/Middle School
District Elementary Educational Officer.
2.
Government/Corporation/Aided Officer.
High School
District Educational
3.
Matriculation School
High School
Inspector of Matriculation Schools.
4.
Government/Corporation/Municipal/Aided
Higher Secondary School
Chief Educational Officer.
5.
Matriculation School
Higher Secondary School
Inspector of Matriculation School.
The staff on the date of submission of the application for staff approval should not be working in any other Institute. If the
staff was on the approved list of any other institute, the relieving order should be produced at the time of application. The
relieving order should be duly signed by the Principal of the Private Teacher Training Institute concerned and
counter-signed by the Principal of the concerned District Institute of Education and Training.
3. On receipt of the proposals from the institute, one copy out of the two copies received, will be sent by the Director of
Teacher Education Research and Training to the Principal of the District Institute of Education and Training. On receipt
of the proposal from the Directorate, the Principal of the District Institute of Education and Training should thoroughly
scrutinize the same and ensure whether the staffs appointed are possessing the qualifications as stipulated by the
National Council for Teacher Education. After satisfying that the proposal contains all the details, he should verify the
photostat copies of the certificates attached to the proposals with the original certificates, produced before him by the
Institute and attest the copies of certificates and experience certificates. The principal will be personally held responsible
for the correctness of entries as found in the certificate copies and bearing his attestation. The Principal will also take
immediate action to contact the Members of the inspection Committee and take up the inspection after intimating the
date of Inspection to the Institute concerned, well in advance.
4. The proposal should be submitted to the Director of Teacher Education Research and Training, by the Principal of the
Page 5/14
----- PAGE 6 -----
Guidelines in Respect of Grant of Affiliation, Staff List Approval and Admission of Studen...
District Institute of Education and Training with his recommendation/remarks along with the report of the inspection
committee.
5. On receipt of the report from the Principal of the District Institute of Education and Training, the same will be
scrutinised and after satisfying that the requirements are fulfilled, affiliation to the institute and also approval to the staff
list will be granted by the Director of Teacher Education Research and Training.
6. The proposal which is not as per the conditions specified hereinabove shall be summarily rejected.
IV. Admission of Students. - 1. Self financing Private Teacher Training Institutes are permitted to make admission of
students only after getting affiliation and approval to the staff list from the Director of Teacher Education Research and
Training, Chennai-6.
2. The institute should not admit more than 50 per cent of the intake as permitted by SRC, NCTE under management
quota. The remaining 50 per cent will be the Government quota. In respect of those Teacher Training Institutes which
seek and get minority status, the number of seats under the management quota will be as per Rules in force.
3. While making admission of students, the orders of Government regarding the number of students to be admitted, rule
Of reservation, reservation for special categories, percentage to be followed for Men and Women, etc., shall be followed
by the managements.
4. The list containing the names of students admitted under management quota should be submitted and approved by
the Director of Teacher Education, Research and Training as specified in G.O. (Ms). No. 108, School Education (U-l)
Department, dated 17.05.2007.
5. No admission shall be made after the last date as specified in G. O. (Ms). No. 108, School Education (U-l)
Department, dated 17.05.2007.
V. Attendance and Condonation. - 1. Each studenl-lrainee should have attended in the first year and second year for not
less than 85 per cent of the total number of working days. However, in supersession of the orders issued in the G.O. first
read above condonation for shortage in attendance upto and inclusive of five days in the
First year and or Second year on valid medical grounds shall be granted by the Joint Director of DTERT
(Administration); and in the case of shortage exceeding five days up to and inclusive of 12 days in the first year and or
second Year shall be granted by the Director of Teacher Education, Research and Training , Chennai-6. However,
shortage in attendance for a period exceeding twelve days in a year shall not be considered.
2. If the number of days of attendance falls short of the minimum prescribed, the student-trainee is not eligible to appear
for the Public Examination in Diploma in Teacher Education conducted by the Director of Government Examinations,
unless the shortage in attendance is condoned by the Competent Authority as specified in clause (1) above.
VI. Visits to Institutes. - The Principals of District Institute of Education and Training shall be competent, besides the
Director and any other authority authorized by him in that behalf to make visits to the self-financing Private Teacher
Training Institutes, to ensure-
(a)
that the staff employed in the Institute, as approved by the Director of Teacher Education Research and Training are
actually in position; and
(b)
that the work relating to imparting instruction to the teacher trainees is taken up in accordance with the syllabus as
prescribed by Government to achieve the object of qualitative education to the teacher-trainees. During the visit by the
Director or his subordinate officers or Principals of District Institute of Education and Training, if any, lapse or deficiency
is noticed, it shall be reported to the Southern Regional Committee, National Council1 for Teacher Education to proceed
against the institute under section 17 of the Central Act 73 of 1993.
Annexure I
Application For Affiliation to Private Teacher Training Institutes Including the Existing TTIS
01.
Name, and complete postal address of the Institute
02.
Nature of the TTI
Minority/Non-MinorityCo-Ed./Girls only/Boys only
Medium of Instruction
03.
Page 6/14
----- PAGE 7 -----
Guidelines in Respect of Grant of Affiliation, Staff List Approval and Admission of Studen...
(a) Name & Address of the Educational Agency which runsthe TTI (With Phone No.)
(b) State whether it is a Registered Body. If so, whether a
copy of theby-laws/constitution governing the Trust/Society is
enclosed ?
04.
Name of the Affiliating Body
DTERT, Chennai-6.
05.
Whether recognition from professional bodies like, NCTE, if
any,was obtained. If so, whether a copy of the Recognition order
is enclosed ?
YES/NO
06.
Name & Address of the Chairman of the Management Body with
Telephone Number
07.
Name & Address of the Secretary/ Correspondent of the H i
with Telephone No.
08.
Composition of the present Management Body of the institution
with full address of the members (to be given as a list as
Annexure-I)
09.
Endowment:
(a) Stale whether the Educational Agency has adequate
Financial Resources (to provide Buildings, Laboratories, Library,
Physical Education, Medical Care, etc., to run the Institute)?
(b) Financial Position/Status of the Educational Agency to be
given briefly in a separate sheet. It should contain the
following details:-
(i) Cash Amoimt (In deposits)
(ii) Properties (Details) and Value of Properties [A detailed
schedule of immovable properties viz. Land (Survey No.), extent
of land, present value, details of building, present value may be
given]
(c) Whether the Educational Agency has created endowment as
per the norms laid down by the NOTE for starting a new TTI and
additional endowment at the rates prescribed by the NCTE for
opening of new courses ? If so, whether a copy of the FD for
endowment is enclosed ?
10.
Name of other TTIs in the district in which the proposed TTI
is to be established and the proposed TTI:-
Name of the TTI
Distance from the proposed
TTI permited intake per annum
11.
Name of Primary,
Upper Primary, High and Higher Secondary Schools within a radius
of 15 Km from the Proposed TTI
with details of
Page 7/14
----- PAGE 8 -----
Guidelines in Respect of Grant of Affiliation, Staff List Approval and Admission of Studen...
strength of standards (I to VIII):-
Name of the Distance
No. of students No. of Section
Primary/ Upper
studying in from Standard I to
Primary School Standard (I to VIII) VIII
{|
Name of the Primary/Upper Primary School
Distance
No. of syudents studing in Standard (I to
VIII)
No. of Section from Standing I to VIII
|-
| 12.
| Need for the opening of the TTI in the locality
(to be briefly stated)
|
|-
| 13.
| Courses for which the Educational Agency
proposes to offer instructions:-
|
|-
|
Name of the Teacher Education Course
Number of Sections in each year (in accordance with permitted intake)
|-
| 14.
| Whether the Educational Agency has appointed
qualified teaching staff as prescribed by the NCTE ?
|
|-
| 15.
| Whether the Educational Agency has submitted the
list of faculty for verification of their qualification through
the DIET concerned?
|
|-
| 16.
| Whether the Educational Agency agrees to
undertake not to collect capitation fees or donation from the
students or their parents ?
|
|-
| 17.
| Whether the Educational Agency agrees to
undertake to collect tuition fees and other fees at the rates
prescribed for Government Institutions from time to time and to
remit the admission fee into Government Account ?
|
|-
Page 8/14
----- PAGE 9 -----
Guidelines in Respect of Grant of Affiliation, Staff List Approval and Admission of Studen...
| 18.
| (a) Whether the Educational Agency undertakes
to follow the Rule of Reservation in force (as laid down by the
Government and as changed, from time to time) in the matter of
admission ?
|
|-
|
| (b) If it is an existing TTI, whether it has
been following the Rule of Reservation in the case of admission
as formulated by Government from time to time (to give break-up
figures, year, wise for the past three years) ?
| YES/NO
|-
|
| (c) Whether the Educational Agency agrees to
adopt the Roster system in the matter of Appointment of Teaching
and Non-Teaching staff ?
|
|-
|
|
| YES/NO
|-
| 19.
| Sanctioned strength in each year and the number
of students admitted:
|
|}
SI. No
Course
Year
Sanctioned Strength
Number admitted
20.
Whether the TTI is admitting students through Single Window System of selection made by the Government ? If so,
number of seats filled through Single Window System.
21.
Whether the TTI will admit all the Single Window System candidates in the seats to be earmarked for them ? If so,
number of seats to be filled through Single Window System.
22.
RESULT (For existing TTIs)Percentage to be given course-wise (Note: A lenient view may be taken of the results of
TTIs in backward areas and TTIs, which cater predominantly Jo the educational needs of disadvantaged groups (e.g.
Socially and Educationally backward group such as SC, ST, BC and MBC)
23.
(a) Courses offered (ongoing) with actual intake.(b) Courses sought (New) with required intake.(c) Previous application,
if any, for affiliation or approval in the same courses and their disposal.
24.
(a) List of teaching faculty appointed:-
SI. No.
Name
Page 9/14
----- PAGE 10 -----
Guidelines in Respect of Grant of Affiliation, Staff List Approval and Admission of Studen...
Designation
Qualification
Experience
Community
Date of appointment
(b) Whether all of the aforesaid faculty members fulfill the NCTE norms ? If not, state the deficiencies.(c) Whether the
faculty appointed have got their certificates, mark lists, community, experience and other required certificate details
verified by the DIET Principals concerned? If so, whether such a verification certificate is enclosed?
25.
List of Non-teaching staff appointed
26.
Does the Educational Agency agree to adhere to the following norms and standards for the Elementary Teacher
Education Programme leading to D.T.Ed., as prescribed by NCTE ? (Page No. 16 to 21 in Appendix 2) - Norms and
standards for Elementary Teacher Education Programme - D.T.Ed.
27.
Details of Teaching & Non-Teaching Staff-
Name of the Teachers faculty wise
Age
Designation
Scale of Pay
Present Salary
Whether full-time or part-time
Signature of the Staff
28.
Physical facilities available at present-(a) Minimum requirement for academic purpose as per the NCTE norms (the land
should be in a contiguous stretch)(b) Land available for the TTI and registered in the name of the TTI/Educational
Agency Site, Survey No. Extent in Hectares (Copy of the documents assigning the land of the TTI to be enclosed)(c)
Buildings: Block-wise (Area-wise)-
SI. No.
No. of Class Rooms
No. of Labs Work-shop/Store Rooms
Staff Room
Library
Admn. Office
Phy. Edn.
Student Common Room
Toilet
Auditorium
Total
Total
29.
Hostel (If available)-(a) Location of the Hostel for Men(b) Location of the Hostel for Women(c) Name of the Warden of
the Hostel for Men/women(d) Name of the Dy. Warden/Visiting Warden, etc.(e) Name of the Staff in the Hostel
Warden:Dy. WardenManagerStore-KeeperCookGardenersScavengersWatchmanSweeperOthers(f) Rooms available in
the Hostel-(i) Tor one (Single Room)(ii) For two (Double Room)(iii) For three (Room for three persons)(iv) For four
(Room for four persons)(g) Total area(h) Total Built-in-Area(i) Proposed room rent for each student per month(j)
Proposed other charges (Electricity, etc.) from each student per month(k) Anticipated Mess Fees for each student per
month(l) Proposed Caution Deposit from each student
30.
Details of Staff Quarters (if available):-
SI. No.
Page 10/14
----- PAGE 11 -----
Guidelines in Respect of Grant of Affiliation, Staff List Approval and Admission of Studen...
Designation
Description
Area
1.
Principal
2.
Teaching Staff
3.
Non-Teaching Staff
31.
(a) Intended/Present Fee Structure for the students-Year Wise (I & II):-
SI. No.
Year
Tuition Fees per term
Special Fees per term
Any other Fees collected
(b) Facilities
available for students:
(i) Common Room
(ii) Reading
Room/Library
(iii) Recreation Room
(iv) Drinking Water
Points
(v) Toilets/Urinals
(vi) Facilities for
Cultural Activities
(vii) Fine Arts
(viii) Scouts/Guides
Men
Women
32.
Library:(a) Area of the Library(b) Name of the Librarian(c) Qualification of the Librarian(d) Names and Designation of
other staff in the library(e) Cost of Library Books in Thousands-(i) Books(ii) CDs(f) Journals:- Number Cost(g) Total
Number of Books and Journals Available:
SI. No.
Department
No. of Text Books
No. of Reference Books
No. of Journals
Cost
(A list of books and journals - Subject-wise to be enclosed for Existing TTIs)(h) Annual Expenditure on Books and
Journals in the last three years. (This statement is to be signed by the Librarian, if already appointed).
33.
Physical Education:(a) Name of the Physical Director/ Physical Education Teacher(b) Qualification(c) Total Area of the
Play Ground(d) Details of the Outdoor Games Available(e) Details of the Indoor Games Available(f) Details of
Gymnasium, if available(g) Funds allotted to Physical Education(h) Details of Sports/Games items available and their
cost (i.e. Foot Ball, Volley Ball, Cricket Bat, Hockey Bat, Boot, Mat, Net etc.) for existing TTIs(i) Achievements in sports
(This statement is to be signed by the Physical Director, PET, if already appointed)
Annexure II
Buildings
Page 11/14
----- PAGE 12 -----
Guidelines in Respect of Grant of Affiliation, Staff List Approval and Admission of Studen...
SI. No.
Items
Nos.
Type of Roll
Carpet Area
Plinth Area
Remarks
Classrooms
Workshop
Laboratories and Stores
Administrative Main Office
Principal's Room
Correspondent's Room
Separate Annexures  are to be enclosed for  the
Temporary  existing and proposed  buildings.
Computer Room
Teaching Staff Room
Seminar Hall/other students amenities
(Health Centre, Bank Extn. Counter, Co-op.
Stores, Canteen, Vehicle Parking  Shed, Generator  Room)
Plan of the class/Lab  Arrangements are to  be
shown separately
Annexure III
Buildings (Contd.)
SI. No.
Items
LXB in sq.ft.
Total Area
No. of Rooms, Labs, etc.
Additional Area to be Provided
Remarks
1.
Class Rooms
2.
Laboratories
3.
Library
4.
Store Room
Note: Add all other Rooms/Labs in the Building with descriptions of the use to which they are put.
Annexure IV
Format For Equipment
List of Equipment: Subject-wise-
SI. No.
Name of Equipment
Quantity (Nos.)
Approximate Cost
Total
Annexure V
Equipment (Contd.)
List of Equipments: Lab-wise
Page 12/14
----- PAGE 13 -----
Guidelines in Respect of Grant of Affiliation, Staff List Approval and Admission of Studen...
SI. No.
Name of Laboratories
Cost of Equipments in Thousands
Science
Psychology
Etc.
Annexure VI
Furniture
Class Room/Office/Laboratory /Hostel-
SI. No.
Items of Furniture
Quantity
Desks-Dual Desk-Wooden Steel
Drawing Desks
Drawing Boards
Long Table
Stools
Teepoys
Chairs
Benches
Library Rack
Board
Almirah, etc.
Date:
Signature.
Annexure VII
Enclosures to be sent along with the application for affiliation:-
01.
TTI Site Plan
02.
(a) Building Plan Existing
(b)
Building Sketch (with details of Rooms, Laboratories, Stores, Library, etc., for all the floors)
03.
Building Plan Proposed
04.
Copies of Document as Proof of Lands exclusively meant for the TTI
05.
NCTE, SRC Recognition order
06.
Copies of Documents showing the financial stability of the TTI (with details of Financial Assets)
07.
List of Members of the Governing Council/Educational Agency/TTI Committee
08.
List of Names, Qualifications and Salaries of Teaching and Non-Teaching Staff.
09.
List of Class Rooms, Laboratories, etc.
10.
Lists of Equipment's available & Proposed (Annexures IV & V)
11.
List of the Books & Journals bought and available and proposed.
Page 13/14
----- PAGE 14 -----
Guidelines in Respect of Grant of Affiliation, Staff List Approval and Admission of Studen...
Notes: As per the latest guidelines of the NCTE, in the beginning the library should have at least 2000 titles including
text and reference books related to prescribed course of study, educational encyclopedias, electronic publications (CD
Roms) and educational journals on elementary education and related subjects. It should be augmented with addition of
200 titles annually. There should be a reading room and suitable space available for library staff with proper furniture.
12.
List of the Physical Education materials available and proposed to buy.
13.
Sketch showing the class room/lab arrangement (Work Experience, Psychology, E.T., Computer).
14.
Master Time-Table for all sections with classroom arrangements.
15.
List of Teaching Aids available/proposed to purchase (Duplicating, Xeroxing facilities, Electronic Boards, TV/VCR/VCP,
etc.)
16.
List of Co-curricular and cultural activities for which facilities are available.
17.
Details of the Hostel Facilities/Canteen Facilities.
18.
Non-Residential Common Room Facilities.
19.
If additional Courses/sections are sought, proof of the additional class room/lab oratory
20.
Latest audited financial statement of the TTI.
21.
List of furniture available (Annexure-VI)
22.
Building Structural Stability Certificate.
23.
Building Licence
24.
NOC from Fire and Rescue Department
25.
Certificate to the effect that no thatched shed, titled or asbestos is available in the TTI Premises.
Annexure VIII
Report of the Inspection Committee:
Recommendation of the Committee:
Remarks, if any:
Signature of the committee members:
(1)
(Name, Designation, Address with seal)
(2)
(Name, Designation, Address with seal)
(3)
(Name, Designation, Address with seal)
(4)
(Name, Designation, Address with seal)
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 14/14