
----- PAGE 1 -----
DR. J JAYALALITHAA UNIVERSITY ACT, 2021.
DR. J JAYALALITHAA UNIVERSITY ACT, 2021.
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/193282106/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
1
]
State of  Tamilnadu- Act
DR. J JAYALALITHAA UNIVERSITY ACT, 2021.
TAMILNADU
India
DR. J JAYALALITHAA UNIVERSITY ACT, 2021.
Act 5 of 2021
Published on 25 February 2021
Commenced on 25 February 2021
[This is the version of this document from 25 February 2021.]
Arrangement of Sections.
Chapter I
.
PRELIMINARY.
1.
Short title, extent, application and commencement.
2.
Definitions.
Chapter II
.
THE UNIVERSITY.
3.
Page 1/19
----- PAGE 2 -----
DR. J JAYALALITHAA UNIVERSITY ACT, 2021.
The University.
4.
Objects and powers of University.
5.
Colleges not to be affiliated to any other University and recognition of institutions by University.
6.
Admission to University.
7.
Visitation.
Chapter III
.
OFFICERS OF UNIVERSITY.
8.
Officers of University.
9.
Chancellor.
10.
Pro-Chancellor.
11.
Vice-Chancellor.
12.
Powers and duties of Vice-Chancellor.
13.
Registrar.
14.
Dean.
15.
Finance Officer.
16.
Controller of Examinations.
17.
Librarian.
Chapter IV
.
AUTHORITIES OF UNIVERSITY.
18.
Authorities of University.
19.
Disqualification for membership.
20.
Disqualification for election or nomination to Academic Council and Syndicate in certain cases.
21.
Syndicate.
22.
Powers of Syndicate.
23.
Meetings of Syndicate.
24.
Academic Council.
25.
Powers and functions of Academic Council.
Page 2/19
----- PAGE 3 -----
DR. J JAYALALITHAA UNIVERSITY ACT, 2021.
26.
Meetings of Academic Council.
27.
Finance Committee.
28.
Planning Board.
29.
Boards of Studies.
30.
Constitution and functions of faculties.
31.
Constitution of other authorities.
Chapter V
.
STATUTES, ORDINANCES AND REGULATIONS.
32.
Statutes.
33.
Statutes, how made.
34.
Ordinances.
35.
Ordinances, how made.
36.
Regulations, how made.
Chapter VI
.
ADMISSION AND RESIDENCE OF STUDENTS.
37.
Admission to University courses.
38.
Admission to University examinations.
39.
Attendance qualifying for University examinations.
40.
Residence and hostels.
Chapter VII
.
UNIVERSITY FUNDS.
41.
General Fund.
42.
Other Funds.
43.
Management of Funds.
44.
Annual report.
45.
Annual accounts.
Chapter VIII
.
Page 3/19
----- PAGE 4 -----
DR. J JAYALALITHAA UNIVERSITY ACT, 2021.
CONDITIONS OF SERVICE.
46.
Pension, gratuity, etc.
47.
Conditions of service.
48.
Selection Committees.
49.
Terms and conditions of service of Heads of Departments.
50.
Constitution of committees.
Chapter IX
.
TRANSFER OF COLLEGES.
51.
Transfer of certain colleges to the University.
52.
Transfer of service of certain employees of Thiruvalluvar University to the University.
Chapter X
.
TRANSITORY PROVISIONS.
53.
Appointment of first Vice-Chancellor.
54.
Appointment of first Registrar.
55.
Transitory powers of first Vice-Chancellor.
Chapter XI
.
MISCELLANEOUS.
56.
Filling of casual vacancies.
57.
Proceedings of the University, authority and bodies not invalidated by vacancies.
58.
Removal from membership of University.
59.
Disputes as to constitution of University authorities and bodies.
60.
Power to obtain information.
61.
Transfer of accumulations in provident fund and other like funds.
62.
Payment of certain amounts by Thiruvalluvar University.
63.
Tamil Nadu Act 32 of 2002 not to apply.
64.
Registration of graduates.
65.
Special mode of appointment.
66.
Page 4/19
----- PAGE 5 -----
DR. J JAYALALITHAA UNIVERSITY ACT, 2021.
Report on affiliated colleges.
67.
Power to remove difficulties.
68.
Power of Government to issue directions.
69.
Removal of doubts.
70.
Amendment to 2002 Act.
?THE SCHEDULE.
The following Act of the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly received the assent of the Governor on the 25th February
2021 and is hereby published for general information:?
ACT No. 5 OF 2021.
An Act to provide for the establishment and incorporation of a University at Villupuram. Be it enacted by the Legislative
Assembly of the State of Tamil Nadu in the
Seventy-second Year of the Republic of India as follows:?
CHAPTER ? I.
PRELIMINARY.
Tamil Nadu Act of 2013.
1.
(1)
This Act may be called the Dr. J. Jayalalithaa University Act, 2021.
(2)
It extends to the area comprising the districts of Villupuram and Kallakurichi and the district of Cuddalore except the
areas specified under sub- section (2) of section 1 of the Annamalai University Act, 2013 (Tamil Nadu Act 20 of 2013) in
the State of Tamil Nadu.
(3)
It applies to all colleges and institutions situate within the University area and maintained by, affiliated to, or approved
by, the University in accordance with the provisions of this Act and the statutes, ordinances and regulations made
thereunder and also to all colleges and institutions deemed to be affiliated to, or
approved by, the University under this Act.
(4)
It shall come into force on such date as the Government may, by
notification, appoint.
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,? Definitions
(a)
?affiliated college? means any college or institution situate within the University area and affiliated to the University and
providing courses of study for
admission to the examinations for degrees of the University and includes a college or institution deemed to be affiliated
to the University under this Act and an autonomous college;
(b)
?appointed date? means the date specified in the notification issued under sub-section (4) of section 1;
(c)
?approved college? means any college or institution situate within the University area and approved by the University
and providing courses of study for admission to the examinations for titles and diplomas of the University and includes a
college or institution deemed to be approved by the University under this Act;
(d)
?autonomous college? means any affiliated college designated as an autonomous college by the statutes;
(e)
?college? means any college or institution maintained or approved by, or affiliated to, the University and providing
courses of study for admission to the examinations for degrees, diplomas or other academic distinctions of the
Page 5/19
----- PAGE 6 -----
DR. J JAYALALITHAA UNIVERSITY ACT, 2021.
University;
(vi)
the conduct of examinations of the University and the conditions on
which students shall be admitted to such examinations;
(vii)
the manner in which exemption relating to the admission of students
to examinations may be given;
(viii)
the conditions and mode of appointment and duties of examining
bodies and examiners;
(ix)
the maintenance of discipline among the students of the University;
(x)
the fees to be charged for courses of study, research, experiment and
practical training and for admissions to the examinations for degrees, titles, diplomas
and other academic distinctions of the University;
(xi)
the qualifications and emoluments of teachers of the University;
(xii)
the conditions subject to which persons who may hereafter be
permanently employed or may be recognised as qualified to give instruction in
affiliated colleges and approved colleges and hostels; and
(xiii)
any other matter which by this Act or the statutes is required to be or
may be prescribed by the ordinances.
35.
(1)
Save as otherwise provided in this section, ordinances shall be made
by the Academic Council.
Ordinances,
how made.
(2)
All ordinances made by the Academic Council shall take effect from
such date as may be fixed by the Academic Council, but every ordinance so made
shall be submitted as soon as may be after it is made to the Syndicate and shall be
considered by the Syndicate at its next meeting.
(3)
The Syndicate shall have power by a resolution passed by a majority of
not less than two-thirds of the members present at such meeting, to modify or cancel
any such ordinance and such ordinance shall from the date of such resolution have
effect in such modified form or be of no such effect, as the case may be.
36.
(1)
The Academic Council may make regulations consistent with this Act,
the statutes and the ordinances, to carry out the duties assigned to it thereunder.
Regulations,
how made.
(2)
All such regulations shall have effect from such date as the Academic
Council may direct, but such regulations so made shall be submitted as soon as may
be to the Syndicate for its consideration at its next meeting.
Page 6/19
----- PAGE 7 -----
DR. J JAYALALITHAA UNIVERSITY ACT, 2021.
CHAPTER-VI.
ADMISSION AND RESIDENCE OF STUDENTS.
37.
(1)
No person shall be admitted to a course of study in the University for
admission to the examinations for degrees, titles or diplomas of the University unless
he?
Admission to
University
courses.
(a)
has passed the examination prescribed therefor; and
(b)
fulfills such other academic conditions as may be prescribed by the
University.
(2)
Every candidate for a University examination shall, unless exempted
from the provisions of this sub-section by a special order of the Syndicate made
on the recommendation of the Academic Council, be enrolled as a member of a
University. Any such exemption may be made subject to such conditions as the
Syndicate may think fit.
(3)
Students exempted from the provisions of sub-section (2) and students
admitted in accordance with the conditions prescribed, to courses of study other
than courses of study for a degree shall be non-collegiate students of the University.
Admission to
University
examinations.
38. No candidate shall be admitted to any University examination unless he is
enrolled as a member of University college or laboratory or of an affiliated college or
approved college and has satisfied the requirements as to the attendance required
under the regulations for the same or unless he is exempted from such requirements
of enrollment or attendance or both by an order of the Syndicate passed on the
recommendation of the Academic Council made under the regulations prescribed.
Exemptions granted under this section shall be subject to such conditions as the
Syndicate may think fit.
Attendance
qualifying for
University
examinations.
39. No attendance at instruction given in any college, other than that established
and maintained by, affiliated to, or approved by, the University shall qualify for
admission to any examination of the University.
Residence and
hostels.
40. Every student of the University other than a non-collegiate student shall be
required to reside in a hostel or under such other conditions as may be prescribed.
CHAPTER-VII.
UNIVERSITY FUNDS.
General Fund. 41. The University shall have a General Fund to which shall be credited?
(a)
Page 7/19
----- PAGE 8 -----
DR. J JAYALALITHAA UNIVERSITY ACT, 2021.
its income from fees, grants, donations and gifts, if any;
(b)
any contribution or grant made by the Central Government, any State
Government, University Grants Commission or like authority, any local authority or
any corporation owned or controlled by the Government; and
(c)
endowments and other receipts.
Other Funds. 42. The University may have such funds as may be prescribed by the statutes.
Management
of Funds.
43. The funds and all moneys of the University shall be managed in such
manner as may be prescribed.
Annual report. 44. The annual report of the University shall be prepared by the Syndicate
and shall be submitted to the Academic Council on or before such date as
may be prescribed and shall be considered by the Academic Council at its
next annual meeting. The Academic Council may pass resolutions thereon
and communicate the same to the Syndicate, which shall take action in
accordance therewith. The Syndicate shall inform the Academic Council
of the action taken by it. A copy of the annual report with a copy of the
resolutions thereon, if any, of the Academic Council shall be submitted to the
Government for information.
Annual
accounts.
45.
(1)
The annual accounts of the University shall be submitted to such
examination and audit as the Government may direct and a copy of the annual
accounts and audit report shall be submitted to the Government.
(2)
The University shall settle objections raised in such audit and carry out
such instructions as may be issued by the Government on the audit report.
(3)
The accounts, when audited, shall be published by the Syndicate in
such manner as may be prescribed and copies thereof shall be submitted to the
Academic Council at its next meeting and to the Government within three months of
such publication.
(4)
The Government shall cause the audited annual accounts and annual
report to be laid before the Legislative Assembly together with their comments.
CHAPTER-VIII.
CONDITIONS OF SERVICE.
46.
(1)
The University shall institute for the benefit of its officers, teachers and
other persons employed by the University, such pension, gratuity, insurance and
provident fund as it may deem fit, in such manner and subject to such conditions, as
may be prescribed.
Pension,
gratuity, etc.
Central Act XIX
of 1925.
Page 8/19
----- PAGE 9 -----
DR. J JAYALALITHAA UNIVERSITY ACT, 2021.
(2)
Where the University as so instituted a provident fund under
sub-section (1), the Government may declare that the provisions of the Provident
Funds Act, 1925 shall apply to such funds as if the University where a local authority
and the fund a Government Provident Fund.
(3)
The University may, in consultation with the Finance Committee, invest
the provident fund amount in such manner as it may determine.
47. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the appointment, procedure for
selection, pay and allowances and other conditions of service of officers, teachers
and other persons employed in the University shall be such as may be prescribed.
Conditions of
service.
Explanation.?For the purpose of this section, the word ?officers? shall not
include the Chancellor and the Pro-Chancellor.
48.
(1)
There shall be Selection Committees for making recommendations
to the Syndicate for appointment to the posts of Assistant Professor, Associate
Professor, Professor, Librarian and other posts of teachers of the University.
Selection
Committees.
(2)
The Selection Committee for appointment to the posts specified in
sub-section (1) shall consist of the Vice-Chancellor, a nominee of the Chancellor, a
nominee of the Government and such other persons as may be prescribed:
Provided that selection of such appointments by the Selection Committee shall
be made in accordance with the guidelines that may be issued by the UGC or other
agencies concerned in relation to such appointment.
(3)
The Vice-Chancellor shall preside at the meetings of a Selection
Committee.
(4)
The meetings of a Selection Committee shall be convened by the
Vice-Chancellor.
(5)
The procedure to be followed by a Selection Committee in making
recommendations shall be laid down in the ordinances.
(6)
If the Syndicate is unable to accept the recommendations made by a
Selection Committee, it shall record its reasons and submit the case to the Chancellor
for final orders.
(7)
Appointments to temporary posts shall be made in the manner indicated
below:?
(i)
If the temporary vacancy is for a duration longer than one academic
session, it shall be filled on the advice of the Selection Committee in accordance with
the procedure indicated in the foregoing provisions:
Provided that if the Vice-Chancellor is satisfied that in the interest
of work it is necessary to fill the vacancy, the appointment may be made on a
Page 9/19
----- PAGE 10 -----
DR. J JAYALALITHAA UNIVERSITY ACT, 2021.
temporary basis by a local Selection Committee referred to in sub-clause (ii) for
a period not exceeding six months;
(ii)
If the temporary vacancy is for a period less than a year,
appointment to such vacancy shall be made on the recommendation of a local
Selection Committee consisting of the Dean of the Faculty concerned, the Head of
the Department and a nominee of the Vice-Chancellor:
Provided that if the same person holds the offices of the Dean and the
Head of the Department, the Selection Committee shall consist of two nominees of
the Vice-Chancellor:
Provided further that in case of sudden casual vacancies in teaching posts
caused by death or any other reason, the Dean may, in consultation with the Head of
the Department concerned, make a temporary appointment for a month and report
to the Vice-Chancellor and the Registrar about such appointment;
(iii)
No teacher appointed temporarily shall, if he is not recommended
by a regular Selection Committee for appointment under this Act, be continued in
service on such temporary employment unless he is subsequently selected by a
local Selection Committee or a regular Selection Committee, for a temporary or a
permanent appointment, as the case may be.
Terms and
conditions
of service
of Heads of
Departments.
49.
(1)
Each Department of the University shall have a Head who shall be a
Professor or Director and whose duties and functions and terms and conditions of
appointment shall be as prescribed by the ordinances:
Provided that if there are more than one Professor in any Department,
the Head of the Department shall be appointed in the manner prescribed by the
ordinances:
Provided further that in a department where there is no Professor, an
Associate Professor or Assistant Professor may be appointed as the Head of the
Department in the manner prescribed by the ordinances.
(2)
It shall be open to a Professor, an Associate Professor or Assistant
Professor to decline the offer of appointment as the Head of a Department.
(3)
A person appointed as the Head of a Department shall hold office
as such for a period of three years and shall be eligible for re-appointment.
(4)
The Head of a Department may resign his office at any time during his
tenure of office.
(5)
The Head of a Department shall perform such functions as may be
prescribed by the ordinances.
Constitution of
committees.
50. All the authorities of the University shall have power to constitute or
Page 10/19
----- PAGE 11 -----
DR. J JAYALALITHAA UNIVERSITY ACT, 2021.
reconstitute committees and to delegate to them such of their powers as they deem
fit. Such committees shall, save as otherwise provided, consist of members of the
authority concerned and of such other persons, if any, as the authority in each case
may deem fit.
CHAPTER-IX.
TRANSFER OF COLLEGES.
Transfer of
certain
colleges
to the
University.
51.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in the Thiruvalluvar University Act,
2002.
(hereinafter referred to as the 2002 Act), the statutes, ordinances, regulations
and orders made thereunder, on and from the appointed date, the colleges in the
University area shall be disaffiliated from the Thiruvalluvar University, established
under the 2002 Act to which they were affiliated on the date immediately preceding
the appointed date.
Tamil Nadu Act
32. of 2002.
(2)
The Government may, at any time after the appointed date, transfer to
the University any of their lands for its use on such terms and conditions as they
deem proper.
(3)
The Government may, at any time after the appointed date, transfer to
the University the control and management of any of their colleges and institutions
situated within the University area on such terms and conditions as they deem
proper.
(4)
Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law relating to the
establishment of a University in the State or the statutes, ordinances, regulations and
order made thereunder, on and from the appointed date, the colleges or institutions
referred to in sub-section (3) shall be disaffiliated from the University to which they
were affiliated on the date, immediately preceding the appointed date and shall be
affiliated to the University.
52.
(1)
Every person, who immediately before the appointed date, was serving
in connection with the affairs of the Thiruvalluvar University in the University Centre
at Villupuram, shall from the said date, ceases to be an employee of the Thiruvalluvar
University and becomes an employee of the University.
Transfer of
service
of certain
employees of
Thiruvalluvar
University
to the
Page 11/19
----- PAGE 12 -----
DR. J JAYALALITHAA UNIVERSITY ACT, 2021.
University.
(2)
(a)
As soon as may be, after the appointed date, the Government may,
after consulting the Vice-Chancellor of the Thiruvalluvar University and the University,
direct by general or special order that such of the employees of the Thiruvalluvar
University as are specified in such order shall stand allotted to serve in connection
with the affairs of the University, on and from such date as may be specified in such
order:
Provided that no such direction shall be issued in respect of any such
person without his consent for such allotment.
(b)
With effect on and from the date specified in the order under
clause (a), the persons specified in such order shall become employees of the
University and shall cease to be the employees of the Thiruvalluvar University.
(3)
Every person referred to in sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) shall
hold office under the University by the same tenure, at the same remuneration and
upon the same terms and conditions and with the same rights and privileges as to
pension or gratuity, if any, and other matters as he would have held the same on the
appointed date or the date specified in the order under sub-section (2), as the case
may be, as if this Act had not been passed.
(4)
The liability to pay pension and gratuity to the persons referred to in
sub-sections (1) and (2) shall be the liability of the University.
CHAPTER-X.
TRANSITORY PROVISIONS.
53. Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) of section 11, within
three months from the date of publication of this Act in the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette, the first Vice-Chancellor shall be appointed by the Government on a
salary to be fixed by them for a period not exceeding three years and on such other
conditions as they deem fit:
Appointment of
first Vice-
Chancellor.
Provided that a person appointed as the first Vice-Chancellor shall retire
from office if, during the term of his office, he completes the age of seventy years.
Appointment
of first
Registrar.
54. Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) of section 13, within
three months from the date of publication of this Act in the Tamil Nadu Government
Gazette, the first Registrar shall be appointed by the Government on a salary to be
fixed by them for a period not exceeding three years and on such conditions as they
think fit:
Provided that the person appointed as the first Registrar shall retire from office
if, during the term of his office, he completes the age of sixty years in case of a
University Professor and fifty nine years in case of a Professor of a Government
college.
Transitory
powers of
Page 12/19
----- PAGE 13 -----
DR. J JAYALALITHAA UNIVERSITY ACT, 2021.
first Vice-
Chancellor.
55.
(1)
It shall be the duty of the first Vice-Chancellor to make arrangements for
constituting the Syndicate and the Academic Council and such other authorities of
the University within six months after the appointed date or such longer period, not
exceeding one year as the Government may, by notification, direct.
(2)
The first Vice-Chancellor shall, in consultation with the Government,
make such rules as may be necessary for the functioning of the University.
(3)
The authorities constituted under sub-section (1) shall commence to
exercise their functions on such date as the Government may, by notification, specify
in this behalf.
(4)
It shall be the duty of the first Vice-Chancellor to draft such statutes,
ordinances and regulations as may be necessary and submit them to the
respective authorities competent to deal with them for their disposal. Such
statutes, ordinances and regulations, when framed, shall be published in the
Tamil Nadu Government Gazette.
(5)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act and the statutes and
until such time an authority is duly constituted, the first Vice-Chancellor may appoint
any officer or constitute any committee temporarily to exercise and perform any of
the powers and duties of such authority under this Act and the statutes.
CHAPTER-XI.
MISCELLANEOUS.
Filling of casual
vacancies.
56. All casual vacancies among the members (other than ex-officio members)
of any authority or other body of the University shall be filled as soon as conveniently
may be, by the person or body, who or which, nominated or elected the member
whose place has become vacant and the person nominated or elected to a casual
vacancy shall be a member of such authority or body for the residue of the term for
which the person whose place he fills would have been a member:
Provided that vacancies arising by efflux of time among elected members
of any authority or other body of the University may be filled at elections which may
be fixed by the Vice-Chancellor to take place on such days not earlier than two
months from the date on which the vacancies arise, as he thinks fit:
Provided further that no casual vacancy shall be filled if such vacancy
occurs within six months before the date of expiry of the term of the members of any
authority or other body of the University.
Proceedings
of University,
authority and
bodies not
invalidated
by
vacancies.
57. No act or proceeding of any authority or other body of the University shall
Page 13/19
----- PAGE 14 -----
DR. J JAYALALITHAA UNIVERSITY ACT, 2021.
be invalidated merely by reason of the existence of any vacancy or of any defect
or irregularity in the election or appointment of a member of any authority or other
body of the University or of any defect or irregularity in such act or proceeding not
affecting the merits of the case or on the ground that the authority or other body of
the University did not meet at such interval as required under this Act.
58.
(1)
The Syndicate may remove by an order in writing made in this behalf any
person from membership of any authority of the University by a resolution passed
by a majority of the total membership of the Syndicate and by a majority of not less
than two-thirds of the members of the Syndicate present and voting at the meeting,
if such person has been convicted by a criminal court for an offence which in the
opinion of the Syndicate involves moral turpitude or if he has been guilty of gross
misconduct and for the same reason, the Syndicate may withdraw any degree or
diploma conferred on or granted to that person by the University.
Removal from
membership
of University.
(2)
The Syndicate may also by an order in writing made in this behalf
remove any person from the membership of any authority of the University if he
becomes of unsound mind or has applied to be adjudicated or has been adjudicated,
as an insolvent.
(3)
No action under this section shall be taken against any person unless
he has been given a reasonable opportunity to show cause against the action
proposed to be taken.
(4)
A copy of every order passed under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2),
as the case may be, shall, as soon as may be after it is so passed, be communicated
to the person concerned in the manner prescribed by regulations.
59. If any question arises whether any person has been duly elected or
nominated as, or is entitled to be, a member of any authority of the University or
other body of the University, the question shall be referred to the Chancellor whose
decision thereon shall be final.
Disputes as to
constitution
of University
authorities
and bodies.
60. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, or in any other law for the
time being in force, the Government may, by order in writing, call for any information
from the University or any matter relating to the affairs of the University and the
University shall, if such information is available with it, furnish the Government with
such information within a reasonable period:
Power to
obtain
information.
Provided that in the case of information which the University considers
confidential, the University may place the same before the Chancellor and Pro-
Chancellor.
Page 14/19
----- PAGE 15 -----
DR. J JAYALALITHAA UNIVERSITY ACT, 2021.
61.
(1)
The sums at the credit of the Provident Fund accounts of the persons
referred to in sub-section (1) of section 52 as on the appointed date and of the
persons referred to in sub-section (2) of section 52 as on the date specified in
the order under clause (a) of the said sub-section (2) shall be transferred to the
University and the liability in respect of the said provident fund accounts shall be
liability of the University.
Transfer of
accumulations
in provident
fund and other
like funds.
(2)
There shall be paid to the University out of the accumulations
in the superannuation fund and other like funds, if any, of the Thiruvalluvar
University such amounts as have been credited to the superannuation
fund or other like funds, if any, on behalf of the persons referred to in
sub-sections (1) and (2) of section 52. The amount so paid shall form part of
superannuation fund or other like funds, if any, that may be established by the
University for the benefit of its employees.
62.
(1)
The Thiruvalluvar University shall, out of its funds as on the appointed
date, pay to the University such amount as the Government may, in consultation with
the Thiruvalluvar University, specify.
Payment of
certain
amounts by
Thiruvalluvar
University.
(2)
The amount payable under sub-section (1) shall be in addition to the
amounts payable by the Thiruvalluvar University to the University under section 52.
63.
(1)
Subject to the provisions of sub-sections (2) to (8), the 2002 Act shall,
with effect on and from the appointed date, cease to apply in respect to the areas to
which the provisions of this Act extend.
Tamil Nadu Act
32. of 2002
not to apply.
(2)
Such cessor shall not affect,?
(a)
the previous operation of the 2002 Act in respect of the areas to
which the provisions of this Act extend; or
(b)
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred in respect of any
offence committed against the 2002 Act; or
(c)
Page 15/19
----- PAGE 16 -----
DR. J JAYALALITHAA UNIVERSITY ACT, 2021.
any investigation, legal proceeding or remedy in respect of such
penalty, forfeiture or punishment, and any such investigation, legal proceeding or
remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced and any such penalty, forfeiture or
punishment may be imposed as if this Act had not been passed.
(3)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), all statutes,
ordinances and regulations made under the 2002 Act and in force on the appointed
date, shall in so far as they are not inconsistent with this Act, continue to be in
force in the University area until they are replaced by the statutes, ordinances and
regulations made under this Act.
(4)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the statutes, ordinances and
regulations continued in force under sub-section (3) or made under this Act, every
person who, immediately before the appointed date, was a student of a college
within the University area affiliated to, or approved by, the Thiruvalluvar University
and of the Departments of the University or was eligible for any of the examinations
of the Thiruvalluvar University shall be permitted to complete his course of study
in the Thiruvalluvar University, and this University shall make arrangements for
the instruction, teaching and training for such students for such period and in such
manner as may be determined by the Thiruvalluvar University in accordance with
the course of study in the Thiruvalluvar University and such students shall, during
such period, be admitted to the examinations held or conducted by the Thiruvalluvar
University and the corresponding degree, diploma or other academic distinctions of
the Thiruvalluvar University shall be conferred upon the qualified students on the
result of such examinations, by the Thiruvalluvar University.
(5)
All colleges within the University area which immediately before the
appointed date,?
(a)
continue to be affiliated to, or recognised by, the Thiruvalluvar
University; and
(b)
provide courses of study for admission to the examination for degrees
of the Thiruvalluvar University;
shall be deemed to be the colleges affiliated to the University under this Act and the
provisions of this Act shall, as far as may be, apply accordingly.
(6)
All colleges within the University area which immediately before the appointed
date, continue to be recognised by the Thiruvalluvar University as colleges providing
courses of study for admission to the examinations of that University, for degrees
and diplomas, shall be deemed to the colleges approved by the University under this
Act and the provisions of this Act shall, as far as may be, apply accordingly.
(7)
All hostels within the University area which immediately before the appointed
date, continue to be recognised by the Thiruvalluvar University, shall be deemed to
be hostels recognised by the University under this Act and the provisions of this Act,
shall as far as may be, apply accordingly.
(8)
Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), but without prejudice to the
provisions of sub-sections (3) to (6), anything done or any action taken before
the appointed date under any provisions of the 2002 Act in respect of any area
Page 16/19
----- PAGE 17 -----
DR. J JAYALALITHAA UNIVERSITY ACT, 2021.
to which the provisions of this Act extend shall be deemed to have been done or
taken under the corresponding provisions of this Act and shall continue to have effect
accordingly unless and until superseded by anything done or any action taken under
the corresponding provisions of this Act.
64.
(1)
On and from the appointed date, every person ordinarily resident within
the University area, who?
Registration of
graduates.
(a)
has been for a period of not less than three years a graduate of
any University in the territory of India; or
(b)
is a registered graduate of any University in the territory of India,
shall be entitled to have his name entered in the register of graduates maintained
under this Act, for a period of five years on payment of such fee and subject to such
conditions as may be prescribed by the statutes.
(2)
All applications for registration under sub-section (1) shall be sent to
the Registrar together with the prescribed fee and such proof of qualifications as
may be prescribed by the statutes.
(3)
The Registrar shall, on receipt of an application made under sub-
section (2) and after making such enquiry as he deems fit, enter in the register of
graduates the name of the applicant.
(4)
Every person whose name has been entered in the register of graduates
under sub-section (3) shall be entitled to have such entry renewed every five years
on application made in that behalf to the Registrar within such time, in such manner
and on payment of such fee as may be prescribed by the statutes.
65.
(1)
The Syndicate may invite a person of high academic distinction and
professional attainments to accept a post of Professor in the University on such
terms and conditions as it deems fit, and on the person agreeing to do so, appoint
him to the post.
Special
mode of
appointment.
(2)
The Syndicate may appoint a teacher or any other member of the
academic staff working in any other University or organisation for undertaking a joint
project in accordance with the manner laid down in the ordinances.
66. The Syndicate shall, at the end of every three years from the appointed date,
submit a report to the Government on the condition of the affiliated and approved
colleges within the University area. The Government shall take such action on it as
they deem fit.
Report on
affiliated
colleges.
Page 17/19
----- PAGE 18 -----
DR. J JAYALALITHAA UNIVERSITY ACT, 2021.
67.
(1)
If any difficulty arises as to the first constitution or re-constitution of any
authority of the University after the appointed date or otherwise in giving effect to the
provisions of this Act, the Government may, by notification, make such provision, not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, as may appear to them to be necessary
or expedient for removing the difficulty:
Power to
remove
difficulties.
Provided that no such notification shall be issued after the expiry of three
years from the date of establishment of the University under section 3.
(2)
Every notification issued under sub-section (1) or under any other
provisions of this Act shall, as soon as possible after it is issued, be placed on the
table of the Legislative Assembly, and if, before the expiry of the session in which it
is so placed or the next session, the Assembly makes any modification in any such
notification or the Assembly decides that the notification should not be issued, the
notification shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect,
as the case may be, so however, that any such modification or annulment shall be
without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that notification.
Power of
Government
to issue
directions.
68. The Government may, from time to time, issue such directions to the
University, as they may deem fit, for giving effect to the provisions of this Act and it
shall be the duty of the University, to comply with such directions.
Removal of
doubts.
69. For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that members of the
authorities of the Thiruvalluvar University elected or nominated or otherwise as such
members under the 2002 Act, from the colleges deemed to have been affiliated to
the University under sub-section (5) of section 63 of this Act and holding office as
such members in any of the authorities of the Thiruvalluvar University immediately
before the date of commencement of this Act shall continue to be such members till
the term of office expires.
70.
(1)
In section 1 of the 2002 Act, for sub-section (2), the following
sub-section shall be substituted, namely:?
Amendment to
2002. Act.
?(2) It extends to the area comprising the districts of Vellore, Tirupattur,
Ranipet and Thiruvannamalai in the State of Tamil Nadu?.
(2)
For the Schedule to the 2002 Act, the following Schedule shall be
substituted, namely:?
?THE SCHEDULE.
[See sections 2(e) and 60-A.]
1. Government Arts College, Thiruvannamalai.
Page 18/19
----- PAGE 19 -----
DR. J JAYALALITHAA UNIVERSITY ACT, 2021.
2. Aringar Anna Government Arts College, Cheyyar.
3. Muthurangam Government Arts College, Vellore.
4. Government Thirumagal Mills College, Gudiyatham.
5. Aringar Anna Government Arts College for Women, Walajapet.?.
THE SCHEDULE.
[See sections 2(f) and 2 (l).]
1. Periyar Arts College, Cuddalore.
2. Government Arts College, Chidambaram.
3. Thirukolanjiappar Government Arts College, Virudhachalam.
4. Aringar Anna Government Arts College, Villupuram.
5. Thiru A.Govindasamy Government Arts College, Thindivanam.
(By order of the Governor)
C. GOPI RAVIKUMAR,
Secretary to Government,
Law Department
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 19/19