
----- PAGE 1 -----
Telangana General Clauses Act, 1891
Telangana General Clauses Act, 1891
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/127191849/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
48
]
State of Telangana - Act
Telangana General Clauses Act, 1891
TELENGANA
India
Telangana General Clauses Act, 1891
Act 1 of 1891
Published on 3 April 1891
Commenced on 3 April 1891
[This is the version of this document from 3 April 1891.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Telangana General Clauses Act, 1891
(Act
No.1 of 1891
.)
Last Updated 16th January, 2020
The Andhra Pradesh General Clauses Act, 1891 received the assent of the Governor on the 3rd April, 1891 and of the
Governor General on the 14th May, 1891. The said Act in force in the combined State, as on 02.06.2014, has been
adapted to the State of Telangana, under section 101 of the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act, 2014 (Central Act 6 of
2014) vide. the Telangana Adaptation of Laws Order, 2016, issued in G.O.Ms.No.45, Law (F) Department, dated
01.06.2016.
1.
Page 1/8
----- PAGE 2 -----
Telangana General Clauses Act, 1891
Short title.
(a)
This Act may be called [the Telangana General Clauses Act, 1891]
[Substituted by G.O.Ms.No.45, Law (F) Department, dated 01.06.2016.]
; and
(b)
It shall come into force on the first day of January, 1892.
2.
Saving clause.
- Notwithstanding anything contained in the Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) General Clauses Act, 1867, the provisions of
that Act shall not apply to this Act or to any Act of the State of [Telangana]
[Substituted by G.O.Ms.No.45, Law (F) Department, dated 01.06.2016.]
which may be passed subsequent to the commencement of this Act.
Chapter - I Definitions
3.
Definitions.
- In this Act and in every Act of the State of [Telangana]
[Substituted by G.O.Ms.No.45, Law (F) Department, dated 01.06.2016.]
made after the commencement of this Act, unless there be something repugnant in the subject or context,-
(1)
"abet", with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions, shall have the same meaning as in the Indian Penal
Code;
[(1-a) "Andhra area" shall mean the territories of the State of Telangana, which immediately before the 1st November,
1956, were comprised in the State of Andhra;
[Clauses (1-a) and (1-b) substituted by Act No.IX of 1961.]
(1-b) "Act of the State of Telangana" shall mean,-
(i)
an Act made by the Governor of Fort St. George in Council under the Indian Councils Acts, 1861 to 1909 or any of those
Acts or the Government of India Act, 1915, or by the Local Legislature or the Governor of the Presidency of Madras
under the Government of India Act, or by the Provincial Legislature of Madras under the Government of India Act, 1935,
or by the Legislature of the State of Madras under the Constitution immediately before the 1st October, 1953;
(ii)
an Act made by the Legislature of the State of Andhra;
(iii)
an Act made by the Legislature of the State of [Telangana];
(iv)
a Central Act of local application in force immediately before the 1st November, 1956 in the Andhra area;
(v)
a Regulation of the Madras Code in force immediately before the 1st November, 1956 in the Andhra area;]
(2)
"barrister" shall mean a barrister of England or Ireland or a member of the Faculty of Advocates in Scotland;
(3)
[ [XXX]
[Clause (3) omitted by the Adaptation of Laws Order, 1937.]
(4)
"Chapter", "part", "section", and "schedule" shall mean, respectively a Chapter, part and section of and schedule to, the
Act in which the word occurs;
(5)
[ [XXX]]
[Clause (5) omitted by Act No.IX of 1961.]
(6)
Page 2/8
----- PAGE 3 -----
Telangana General Clauses Act, 1891
"Collector" shall include every officer who, for the time being, is authorized to exercise the powers of a Collector;
(7)
"commencement", used with reference to an Act, shall mean the time at which the Act comes into force;
(8)
"District Collector" shall mean the chief local officer in charge of the revenue administration of a district;
(9)
"document" shall mean any matter expressed or described upon any substance by means of letters, figures or marks, or
by more than one of those means, intended to be used, or which may be used, as evidence of that matter;
(10)
"financial year" shall mean the year commencing on the first day of April;
(11)
nothing is said to be done or believed in "good faith" which is done or believed without due care and attention;
(12)
[ [XXX]
[Clause (12) omitted by the Adaptation of Laws Order, 1937.]
(13)
[ [XXX]
[Clause (13) omitted by the Adaptation of Laws (Amendment) Order, 1950.]
(14)
"immovable property" shall include land, benefits to arise out of land, and things attached to the earth, or permanently
fastened to anything attached to the earth;
(15)
"imprisonment" shall mean imprisonment of either description as defined in the Indian Penal Code;
[(15-A) [XXX]
[Clause (15-A) omitted by the Adaptation of Laws Order, 1937.]
(16)
"judicial proceeding" shall mean any proceeding in the course of which evidence is, or may be, legally taken;
(17)
"local authority" shall mean a Municipal Committee, District Board, body of Port Commissioners or other authority legally
entitled to, or entrusted by the Government with, the control or management of a municipal or local fund;
[(17-A) [XXX]
[Clause (17-A) omitted by Act No.IX of 1961.]
(18)
"Magistrate" shall mean any person exercising all or any of the powers of a Magistrate under the [Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1882]
[See now the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Central Act 2 of 1974).]
;
(19)
"movable property" shall mean property of every description except immovable property;
(20)
"oath", "swear" and "affidavit" shall include affirmation and declaration in the case of persons by law allowed to affirm or
declare instead of swearing;
(21)
"offence" shall mean any act or omission made punishable by any law for the time being in force;
(22)
"person" shall include any company or association of individuals, whether incorporated or not;
(23)
"place" includes also a house, building, tent and vessel;
(24)
[ [XXX]
[Clause (24) omitted by the Adaptation of Laws Order, 1937.]
Page 3/8
----- PAGE 4 -----
Telangana General Clauses Act, 1891
(25)
[ [XXX]
[Clause (25) omitted by Act No.IX of 1961.]
(26)
"public" includes any class of the public or any community;
(27)
"public nuisance" shall have the meaning assigned to that expression in section 268 of the Indian Penal Code;
(28)
[ "registered" used with reference to a document, shall mean registered in [India]
[This clause substituted by Adaptation of Laws (Amendment) Order, 1950.]
under the law for the time being in force for the registration of documents;]
(29)
"sign", with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions, shall with reference to a person who is unable to write
his name include "mark" with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions;
(30)
in the case of any one whose personal law permits adoption, "son" shall include an adopted son, and "father" an
adoptive father;
[(30-a) "State" shall mean,-
[Clause (30-a) inserted by Act No.IX of 1961.]
(i)
the whole of the State of [Telangana] in the case of an Act which extends to the whole of the said State; and
(ii)
the Andhra area in the case of an Act which extends only to that area;]
(31)
"sub-section" shall mean a sub-section of the section in which the word occurs;
(32)
"Value", used with reference to a suit, shall mean the amount or value of the subject-matter of the suit, computed
according the law for the time being in force regulating the valuation of suits for purposes of jurisdiction;
(33)
"will" shall include a codicil and every writing making a voluntary posthumous distribution of property;
(34)
"Gender" words importing the masculine gender shall include females;
(35)
"Number" words in the singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include in the singular;
(36)
"Illegal omissions" words which refer to acts done extend also to illegal omissions;
(37)
"writing" with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions, shall include 'printing' 'lithography', "photography",
with their grammatical variations and cognate expressions, and other modes of representing or reproducing words in a
visible form;
(38)
"year" and "month" shall, respectively, mean a year and month reckoned according to the British calendar.
3A.
[
[Section 3-A omitted by Act No.IX of 1961.]
[XXX]
Chapter - II General Provisions Applicable To Future Acts
4.
Application of Chapter II to all future Acts.
- This Chapter shall apply to all [Acts of the State of [Telangana]
[Substituted by Act No.IX of 1961.]
Page 4/8
----- PAGE 5 -----
Telangana General Clauses Act, 1891
] made after the commencement of this Act, unless a contrary intention appears in such Acts.
5.
[ Commencement of future Acts.
[This section was substituted for the original section by the Adaptation of Laws Order, 1937.]
- [(1) Where any Act to which this Chapter applies is not expressed to come into operation on a particular day, then, it
shall come into operation on the day on which the assent thereto of the Governor, the Governor General or the
President, as the case may require, is first published in the Official Gazette.]
(2)
In every such Act the date of such publication as aforesaid shall be printed either above or below the title of the Act and
shall form part of the Act.]
6.
Making of rules and issue of orders between passing and Commencement of Act.
- Where, by an Act to which this Chapter applies and which is not to come into force immediately on the passing thereof,
a power is conferred on Government or other authority to make rules, or to issue orders, with respect to the application
of the Act, or with respect to the appointment of any officer thereunder, such power may be exercised at any time after
the passing of the Act but rules or orders so made or issued shall not take effect till the commencement of the Act.
7.
Provisions regulating the making of rules after previous publication.
- Where, by an Act to which this Chapter applies, a power to make rules is expressed to be given, subject to the
condition of the rules being made after previous publication, the following provisions shall apply, namely:-
(a)
the authority having the power to make the rules shall, before making them, publish a draft of the proposed rules;
(b)
the publication shall be made in such manner as that authority deems to be sufficient, or, if the condition with respect to
previous publication so requires, in such manner as the [Central Government or, as the case may be, the [State]
[These words were substituted for the word 'Government' by the Adaptation of Laws Order, 1937.]
Government] prescribes;
(c)
there shall be published with the draft a notice specifying a date at or after which the draft will be taken into
consideration;
(d)
the authority having power to make the rules, and, where the rules are to be made with the sanction, approval or
concurrence of another authority, that authority also, shall consider any objection or suggestion which may be received
by the authority having power to make the rules from any person with respect to the draft, before the date so specified;
(e)
the publication in the [Official Gazette]
[These words were substituted for the words 'Fort St.George Gazette' by the Adaptation of Laws Order, 1937.]
of a rule purporting to have been made in exercise of a power to make rules after previous publication, shall be
conclusive proof that the rule has been duly made.
8.
Effect of repealing an Act.
- Where any Act, to which this Chapter applies, repeals any other enactment, then the repeal shall not,-
(a)
affect anything done or any offence committed, or any fine or penalty incurred or any proceedings begun before the
commencement of the repealing Act; or
(b)
revive anything not in force or existing at the time at which the repeal takes effect; or
(c)
affect the previous operation of any enactment so repealed or anything duly done or suffered under any enactment so
repealed; or
(d)
Page 5/8
----- PAGE 6 -----
Telangana General Clauses Act, 1891
affect, any right, privilege, obligation or liability acquired, accrued or incurred under any enactment so repealed; or
(e)
affect any fine, penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred in respect of any offence committed against any enactment so
repealed; or
(f)
affect any investigation, legal proceeding or remedy in respect of any such right, privilege, obligation, liability, fine,
penalty, forfeiture or punishment as aforesaid; and any such investigation, legal proceeding or remedy may be instituted,
continued or enforced, and any such fine, penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be imposed as if the repealing Act had
not been passed.
8A.
[ Effect of repeal of Act making textual amendment in previous Act.
[Section 8-A was inserted by the Madras General Clauses (Amendment) Act 1936 (Madras Act IV of 1937).]
- Where any Act to which this Chapter applies, repeals any enactment by which the text of any previous enactment was
amended by the express omission, insertion or substitution of any matter, then, unless a different intention appears, the
repeal shall not affect the continuance of any such amendment made by the enactment so repealed and in operation at
the time of such repeal.]
9.
Revival of repealed enactments.
- In any Act to which this Chapter applies,-
(a)
for the purpose of reviving, either wholly or partially, an Act or Regulation, wholly or partially repealed, it shall be
necessary expressly to state such purpose;
(b)
for the purpose of excluding the first in a series of days or any other period of time, it shall be sufficient to use the word
"from";
(c)
for the purpose of including the last in a series of days or any other period of time, it shall be sufficient to use the word
"to";
(d)
for the purpose of expressing that a law relative to the chief or superior of an office shall apply to the deputies or
subordinates lawfully executing the duties of such office in the place of their superior it shall be sufficient to prescribe the
duty of the superior;
(e)
for the purpose of indicating the relation of a law to the successors of any functionaries, or of corporations having
perpetual succession, it shall be sufficient to express its relation to the functionaries or corporations; and
(f)
for the purpose of indicating the application of a law to every person or number of persons for the time being executing
the functions of an office, it shall be sufficient to mention the official title of the officer at present executing such
functions, or that of the officer by whom the functions are commonly executed.
10.
Expressions used in rules, bye-laws and orders to have same meaning as in Act under which they are made or issued.
- Where an Act, to which this Chapter applies, confers power to make rules or bye-laws or to issue orders, expressions
used in such rules, bye-laws or orders, have the same respective meanings as in the Act conferring the power.
11.
Necessary extension of prescribed periods.
- Where, by an Act to which this Chapter applies, any act or proceeding is directed or allowed to be done or taken in a
Court or office on a certain day or within a prescribed period, then, if the Court or office is closed on that day or the last
day of the prescribed period, the act or proceedings shall be considered as done or taken in due time if it is done or
taken on the next day afterwards on which the Court or office is open.
This section does not apply to any act or proceeding to which [the Indian Limitation Act, 1908]
[Substituted by Act No.IX of 1961.]
Page 6/8
----- PAGE 7 -----
Telangana General Clauses Act, 1891
applies.
Chapter - III General Provisions Applicable To All Acts
12.
Application of Chapter III to all Acts.
- This Chapter shall apply to all [Acts of the State of [Telangana]
[Substituted by Act No.IX of 1961.]
] unless a contrary intention appears in any such Act, but it shall not affect anything done or commenced prior to the
commencement of this Act under any enactment now in force.
13.
When powers and duties to be exercised and performed.
- Where an Act confers a power or imposes a duty, then the power may be exercised and the duty shall be performed
from time to time as occasion requires.
14.
Exercise of power and performance of duty by temporary holder of office.
- Where an Act confers a power or imposes a duty on the holder of an office, as such, then the power may be exercised
and the duty shall be performed by the holder for the time being of the office.
15.
Revocation and alteration of rules, bye-laws and orders.
- Where an Act confers a power to make any rules or bye-laws, or to issue orders, the power shall be construed as
including a power exercisable in the like manner and subject to the like consent and conditions, if any, to rescind,
revoke, amend or vary the rules, bye-laws or orders.
16.
Duty leviable pro rata.
- Whenever by an Act any duty of customs or excise or in the nature thereof is leviable on any given quantity, by weight,
measure or value, of any goods or merchandise, a like duty shall be leviable according to the same rate on any greater
or less quantity.
17.
Mode of conferring powers and imposing duties.
- Whenever by an Act authority is given to confer powers or impose duties, such powers may be conferred or duties
imposed by name or by office or on classes of officials generality by their official titles.
18.
References to provisions in Acts repealed and re-enacted.
- Where an Act repeals and re-enacts, with or without modification, all or any of the provisions of a former Act,
references in any other Act to the provisions so repealed shall be construed as references to the provisions so
reenacted, and if notifications have been published, proclamations or certificates issued, powers conferred, forms
prescribed, local limits defined, offices established, orders, rules and appointments made, engagements entered into,
licences or permits granted, and other things duly done, under the provisions so repealed, the same shall be deemed,
so far as the same are consistent with the provisions so re-enacted, to have been respectively published, issued,
conferred, prescribed, defined, established, made, entered into, granted or done under the provisions so re-enacted.
19.
Recovery of fines.
- The provisions of sections 63, 68, 69 and 70 of the Indian Penal Code shall apply to all fines imposed under the
authority of any Act. (Central Act 45 of 1860).
20.
Punishment for offences under more than one enactment.
- Where an act or omission constitutes an offence under two or more enactments, the offender shall be liable to be
prosecuted and punished under either or any of those enactments, but shall not be liable to be punished twice for the
same act or omission.
21.
Publication of orders and notifications in the Official Gazette.
- Where in any Act, or in any rule passed under any Act, it is directed that any order, notification or other matter shall be
Page 7/8
----- PAGE 8 -----
Telangana General Clauses Act, 1891
notified or published, such notification or publication shall, unless the Act otherwise provides, be deemed to be duly
made if it is published in the [Official Gazette]
[These words were substituted for the words 'Fort St. George Gazette' by the Adaptation of Laws Order, 1937.]
.
22.
Determination of the times at which Acts or provisions of Acts extended or applied by Government to certain places shall
come into force.
- When, by an Act any Government is empowered to extend or apply an Act or any provision of an Act to any place in, or
to any portion of, the [State]
[The word 'State' was substituted for 'Province' by the Adaptation of Laws Order, 1950.]
the Government may, in any order extending or applying such Act or provision or in a subsequent order, notify the time
at which the same shall come into force in the place or portion of the [State]
[The word 'State' was substituted for 'Province' by the Adaptation of Laws Order, 1950.]
to which it is so extended or applied; and, unless it is otherwise provided in the Act, the Government may, by notification
in the [Official Gazette]
[These words were substituted for the words 'Fort St.George Gazette' by the Adaptation of Laws Order, 1937.]
from time to time postpone the time at which the Act or provision shall come into force in such place or portion of the
[State]
[The word 'State' was substituted for 'Province' by the Adaptation of Laws Order, 1950.]
or cancel the order for extending or applying the same to such place or portion of the [State]
[The word 'State' was substituted for 'Province' by the Adaptation of Laws Order, 1950.]
:
Provided that no order postponing the time at which an Act or provision shall come into force, or cancelling an order for
extending or applying the same, shall be made after the Act or provision has actually come into force in the place or
portion of the [State]
[The word 'State' was substituted for 'Province' by the Adaptation of Laws Order, 1950.]
to which such order relates.
[Chapter - IV]
[Chapter IV was inserted by Adaptation of Laws Order, 1937.]
Application To Ordinances and Regulations
23.
[ Application of Act to Regulations and Ordinances.
[Substituted for the original section 23 by the Adaptation of Laws (Amendment) Order, 1950.]
- The provisions of this Act shall apply,-
(a)
in relation to any Regulation made by the Governor under section 92 of the Government of India Act, 1935, in like
manner as they apply in relation to [the Acts made by the Provincial Legislature referred to in item (i) of clause (1-b) of
section 3]; and
(b)
in relation to any Ordinance promulgated by the Governor under article 213 of the Constitution or any Regulation made
by him under paragraph 5 of the Fifth Schedule to the Constitution, in like manner as they apply in relation to [the Acts]
[Substituted by Act No.IX of 1961.]
made by the State Legislature:
Provided that sub-section (1) of section 5 of this Act shall apply to any Ordinance referred to in clause (b) as if the
reference in that sub-section to the day of the first publication of the assent to an Act in the Official Gazette were a
reference instead to the day of the first publication of the Ordinance in that Gazette.]
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 8/8