
----- PAGE 1 -----
Telangana Prohibition of Cow Slaughter and Animal Preservation Act, 1977
Telangana Prohibition of Cow Slaughter and Animal Preservation Act,
1977
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/13869777/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
7
]
State of Telangana - Act
Telangana Prohibition of Cow Slaughter and Animal Preservation Act, 1977
TELENGANA
India
Telangana Prohibition of Cow Slaughter and Animal Preservation Act, 1977
Act 11 of 1977
Published on 30 April 1977
Commenced on 30 April 1977
[This is the version of this document from 30 April 1977.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Telangana Prohibition of Cow Slaughter and Animal Preservation Act, 1977
(Act
No. 11 of 1977
)
Last Updated 9th January, 2020
The Andhra Pradesh Prohibition of Cow Slaughter and Animal Preservation Act, 1977 received the assent of the
President on the 30th April, 1977. The said Act in force in the combined State, as on 02.06.2014, has been adapted to
the State of Telangana, under section 101 of the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act, 2014 (Central Act 6 of 2014) vide.
the Telangana Adaptation of Laws Order, 2016 issued in G.O.Ms.No.45, Law (F) Department, dated 01.06.2016.
Page 1/5
----- PAGE 2 -----
Telangana Prohibition of Cow Slaughter and Animal Preservation Act, 1977
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
This Act may be called the [Telangana]
[Substituted by G.O.Ms.No.45, Law (F) Department, dated 01.06.2016.]
Prohibition of Cow Slaughter and Animal Preservation Act, 1977.
(2)
It extends to the whole of the [State of Telangana]
[Substituted by G.O.Ms.No.45, Law (F) Department, dated 01.06.2016.]
.
(3)
It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 19th December, 1976.
2.
Declaration as to giving effect to certain directive principles.
- It is hereby declared that this Act is for giving effect to the policy of the State towards securing the principles specified
in Article 48 of the Constitution of India.
3.
Definitions.
- In this Act unless the context otherwise requires,-
(i)
'animal' means bull, bullock, buffaloe, male or female, or calf, whether male or female of a she-buffaloe;
(ii)
'competent authority' means a person or a body of persons appointed under section 4 to perform the functions of a
competent authority under this Act;
(iii)
'cow' includes a heifer, or a calf, whether male or female, of a cow;
(iv)
'Government' means the State Government;
(v)
'notification' means a notification published in the [Telangana]
[Substituted by G.O.Ms.No.45, Law (F) Department, dated 01.06.2016.]
Gazette and the word 'notified' shall be construed accordingly;
(vi)
'prescribed' means prescribed by rules made under this Act.
4.
Appointment of competent authority.
- The Government may, by notification, appoint a person or a body of persons to perform the functions of a competent
authority under this Act for such local area as may be specified in such notification.
5.
Prohibition of slaughter of cow or calf of she-buffaloe.
- Notwithstanding anything in any other law for the time being in force or any custom or usage to the contrary, no person
shall slaughter or cause to be slaughtered, or offer or cause to be offered for slaughter or otherwise intentionally, kill or
offer or cause to be offered for killing, any cow or calf, whether male or female, of a she-buffaloe.
6.
Prohibition against slaughter of animals without certificate from competent authority.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything in any other law for the time being in force or any custom or usage to the contrary, no person
shall slaughter or cause to be slaughtered or offer or cause to be offered for slaughter any animal other than a calf,
whether male or female, of a she-buffaloe, unless he has obtained in respect of such animal a certificate in writing from
the competent authority appointed for the area that the animal is fit for slaughter.
(2)
Page 2/5
----- PAGE 3 -----
Telangana Prohibition of Cow Slaughter and Animal Preservation Act, 1977
No certificate shall be granted under sub-section (1), if in the opinion of the competent authority the animal is or is likely
to become economical for the purpose of,-
(a)
breeding, or
(b)
draught or any kind of agricultural operations; or
(c)
giving milk or bearing off-spring:
Provided that no certificate under sub-section (1) shall be refused to be granted unless the reasons for such refusal are
recorded in writing.
(3)
A certificate under this section shall be granted in such form and on payment of such fee as may be prescribed.
7.
Power of revision.
(1)
The Government may, suo motu or shall, on an application made in this behalf by the person aggrieved, for the purpose
of satisfying themselves as to the legality or propriety of any order passed by a competent authority, granting or refusing
to grant any certificate under section 6, call for and examine the record of the case and may pass such order in
reference thereto as they think fit.
(2)
Subject to the provisions of sub-section (1) any order passed by the competent authority granting or refusing to grant a
certificate under section 6, and any order passed by the Government under sub-section (1) shall be final and shall not
be called in question in any court.
8.
Slaughter to be in places specified.
- No animal in respect of which a certificate has been granted under section 6, shall be slaughtered in any place other
than a place specified by such authority or officer as the Government may appoint in this behalf.
9.
Power to enter and inspect.
(1)
For the purposes of this Act, the competent authority or any person authorised in this behalf by the competent authority
(hereinafter referred to as the authorised person), shall have power to enter and inspect any premises where the
competent authority or the authorised person has reason to believe that an offence under this Act has been or is likely to
be committed.
(2)
Every person in occupation of any such premises shall allow the competent authority or the authorised person such
access to the premises as may be necessary for the aforesaid purpose and shall answer to the best of his knowledge
and belief any question put to him by the competent authority or by the authorised person.
10.
Penalties.
- Whoever contravenes any of the provisions of this Act, shall on conviction, be punished with imprisonment for a term
which may extend to six months or with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees, or with both.
11.
Offences under Act to be cognizable.
- Notwithstanding anything in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, (Central Act 2 of 1974). all offences under this Act
shall be cognizable.
12.
Abetments and attempts.
- Whoever abets any offence punishable under this Act or attempts to commit any such offence, shall be punished with
the punishment provided in this Act for such offence.
13.
Page 3/5
----- PAGE 4 -----
Telangana Prohibition of Cow Slaughter and Animal Preservation Act, 1977
Persons exercising powers under the Act deemed to be public servants.
- All persons exercising powers under this Act shall be deemed to be public servants within the meaning of section 21 of
the Indian Penal Code(Central Act 45 of 1860).
14.
Protection of persons acting in good faith.
- No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall be instituted against the competent authority or any person
exercising powers under this Act, for anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done under this Act or the
rules made thereunder.
15.
Exemptions.
- Subject to such conditions as may be prescribed in this behalf, the provisions of this Act shall not apply to,-
(a)
any animal operated upon for vaccine, lymph, serum or any experimental or research purpose at an institution
established, conducted or recognised by the Government; or
(b)
any cow or animal-
(i)
slaughter of which is certified by a Veterinary Officer authorised by the Government, to be necessary in the interests of
the public health;
(ii)
which is suffering from any disease which is certified by a Veterinary Officer authorised by the Government as being
contagious and dangerous to other animals.
16.
Delegation of powers.
- The Government may, by notification, delegate -
(i)
to any local authority, their powers under section 4, within the local area subject to the jurisdiction of such local authority;
(ii)
to any officer of the Government, their powers under sub-section (1) of section 7.
17.
Establishment of institutions for taking care of cows or other animals.
(1)
The Government may establish, or direct any local authority or society registered under the law relating to the
registration of societies for the time being in force in the State, or any association or body of persons, to establish
institutions at such places as may be deemed necessary for taking care of cows or other animals sent thereto.
(2)
The Government may provide by rules for the proper management of such institutions for the care of cows or other
animals therein and also for the class or variety of cows or other animals that may be admitted therein.
(3)
The Government, or subject to the previous sanction of the Government, the local authority, society or body of persons
or association establishing an institution under sub-section (1), may levy such fees as may be prescribed for the
maintenance of such institutions.
18.
Power to make rules.
(1)
The Government may, by notification, after previous publication, make rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act.
(2)
In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for-
(a)
the powers and duties of competent authority in addition to those provided in this Act;
(b)
Page 4/5
----- PAGE 5 -----
Telangana Prohibition of Cow Slaughter and Animal Preservation Act, 1977
the form of the certificate under section 6;
(c)
the amount of fee to be paid under section 6;
(d)
the conditions subject to which this Act shall not apply to any animal under section 15;
(e)
the management of institutions established under section 17 and the fee to be levied for their maintenance; and
(f)
any other matter which is to be or may be prescribed.
(3)
Every rule made under this section shall immediately after it is made, be laid before each House of the State Legislature
if it is in session and if it is not in the session in the session immediately following, for a total period of fourteen days
which may be comprised in one session, or in two successive sessions, and if, before the expiration of the session in
which it is so laid or the session immediately following, both Houses agree in making any modification in the ruIe or in
the annulment of the rule, the rule shall, from the date on which the modification or annulment is notified, have effect
only in such modified form or shall, stand annulled, as the case may be; so however that any such modification or
annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done, under that rule.
19.
Repeals.
- The Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) (Slaughter of Animals) Act, 1950, (Act VII of 1950). and the Andhra Pradesh
Prohibition of Cow Slaughter and Animal Preservation Ordinance, 1976, (Ordinance 23 of 1976). are hereby repealed.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 5/5