
----- PAGE 1 -----
Telangana Metropolitan Planning Committee Act, 2007
Telangana Metropolitan Planning Committee Act, 2007
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/199313480/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Telangana - Act
Telangana Metropolitan Planning Committee Act, 2007
TELENGANA
India
Telangana Metropolitan Planning Committee Act, 2007
Act 32 of 2007
Published on 6 December 2007
Commenced on 6 December 2007
[This is the version of this document from 6 December 2007.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Telangana Metropolitan Planning Committee Act, 2007
(Act
No. 32 of 2007
)
The Andhra Pradesh Metropolitan Planning Committee Act, 2007 received the assent of the Governor on the 6th
December, 2007. The said Act in force in the combined State, as on 02.06.2014, has been adapted to the State of
Telangana, under section 101 of the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act, 2014 (Central Act 6 of 2014) vide. the
Telangana Adaptation of Laws Order, 2016, issued in G.O.Ms.No.45, Law (F) Department, dated 01.06.2016.
1.
Short title, extent and commencement.
(1)
Page 1/5
----- PAGE 2 -----
Telangana Metropolitan Planning Committee Act, 2007
This Act may be called the [Telangana Metropolitan Planning Committee Act, 2007.]
[Substituted by G.O.Ms.No.45, Law (F) Department, dated 01.06.2016.]
(2)
It extends to the whole of the State of [Telangana].
[Substituted by G.O.Ms.No.45, Law (F) Department, dated 01.06.2016.]
(3)
It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 22nd October, 2007.
2.
Definitions.
- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires: -
(a)
"Committee" means the Metropolitan Planning Committee constituted under section 3;
(b)
"Government" means the State Government;
(c)
"Metropolitan Area" means an area having a population of ten lakhs or more comprised in one or more districts and
consisting of two or more municipalities or panchayats or other contiguous areas, specified by the Government, by
notification, to be a Metropolitan Area for the purposes of this Act;
(d)
"Municipality" means Nagar Panchayat, Municipality and Municipal Corporation as constituted, as the case may be,
under the provisions of [the Telangana Municipalities Act, 1965,(Act VI of 1965.);]
[Adapted in G.O.Ms.No.142, Municipal Administration & Urban Development (A2) Department, dated 29.10.2015.]
or [the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation Act, 1955,(Act II of 1955.);]
[Adapted in G.O.Ms.No.134, Municipal Administration & Urban Development (F2) Department, dated 13.10.2015.]
[***]
[Repealed by G.O.Ms.No.45, Law (F) Department, dated 01.06.2016.]
and [the Telangana Municipal Corporations Act, 1994 (Act
25 of 1994
);]
[Adapted in G.O.Ms.No.143, Municipal Administration & Urban Development (A2) Department, dated 29.10.2015.]
(e)
"Notification" means a notification published in the [Telangana Gazette and the word "notified" shall be construed
accordingly;]
[Substituted by G.O.Ms.No.45, Law (F) Department, dated 01.06.2016.]
(f)
"Panchayat" means a Gram Panchayat or Mandal Praja Parishad and Zilla Praja Parishad constituted under the
provisions of [the Telangana Panchayat Raj Act, 1994 (Act 13 of 1994);]
[See now the Telangana Panchayat Raj Act, 2018 (Act
No. 5 of 2018
).]
(g)
"Population" means the population as ascertained by the last preceding census of which the relevant figures have been
published;
(h)
"Prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this Act.
3.
Constitution of Metropolitan Planning Committee.
- There shall be constituted for every Metropolitan Area, a Metropolitan Planning Committee (hereinafter referred to as
the Committee) to consolidate the plans prepared by the Municipalities and Panchayats in the Metropolitan Area and to
prepare a draft development plan for the Metropolitan Area as a whole and to exercise such other powers as may be
entrusted to it by the Government, from time to time.
Page 2/5
----- PAGE 3 -----
Telangana Metropolitan Planning Committee Act, 2007
4.
Composition of Committees.
(1)
The Committee constituted under section 3 shall consist of such number of members, including a Chairperson and
Vice-Chairperson, as the Government may determine:
Provided that not less than two-thirds of the members of the Committee shall be elected by, and from amongst the
elected members of the Municipalities and Chairpersons of the Panchayats in the Metropolitan Area in proportion to the
ratio between the population of the Municipalities and of the Panchayats in that area by following the rule of reservation
as specified in sub-section (2) of section 5 of [the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation Act, 1955,(Act II of 1955).]
[Adapted in G.O.Ms.No.134, Municipal Administration & Urban Development (F2) Department, dated 13.10.2015.]
(2)
The representation in the Committee of the Government of India and the State Government and of such organizations
and institutions as may be deemed necessary for carrying out the functions assigned to the Committee shall be such as
may be notified by the Government, from time to time.
5.
Special invitees.
(1)
(a)
Members of the House of the People and Members of the State Legislative Assembly representing constituencies which
are comprised wholly or partly in the Metropolitan Area shall be permanent special invitees to the meetings of the
Committee.
(b)
Members of the Council of State registered as an elector within the Metropolitan Area shall also be the permanent
invitees to the meetings of the Committee. Members of the Legislative Council of the State registered as an elector in
the Metropolitan Area at the time of nomination or of filing nomination, as the case may be, shall also be the permanent
invitees to the meetings of the Committee.
(2)
The Chairperson of a Municipality, Nagar Panchayat and the Mayor of the Municipal Corporation in the Metropolitan
Area shall also be permanent special invitees in case they are not the elected members of the Committee.
6.
Chair-person, Vice-Chairperson and other members.
- The Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and other nonelected members shall be appointed by the Government.
7.
Term of Chairperson, Vice- Chairperson and nominated members and filling up of vacancies.
(1)
The term of office and other conditions of service of the Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and non-elected members of the
Committee shall be such as may be prescribed.
(2)
Any vacancy in the office of the Chairperson, Vice- Chairperson or non-elected member of the Committee shall be filled
by the Government as they may determine.
8.
Election of members of the Committee.
- The manner of election of Members of the Committee and all matters related thereto shall be such as may be
prescribed.
9.
Term of office and allowance for elected members of committee.
- The term of the elected members of the Committee shall be five years from the date of their election, and they shall
receive such allowance for attending the meeting of the Committee or any sub-committee thereof as may be prescribed:
Provided that every such member shall, on his ceasing to be an elected member of a Municipality or Chairperson of a
Panchayat, as the case may be, cease to be a member of the Committee notwithstanding that the term of five years has
not expired, and the vacancy shall be filled by election in the manner prescribed.
Page 3/5
----- PAGE 4 -----
Telangana Metropolitan Planning Committee Act, 2007
10.
Manner of preparation of Draft Development Plan.
(1)
Every Committee shall prepare the Draft Development Plan: -
(a)
having regard to, -
(i)
the plans prepared by the Municipalities and Panchayats in the Metropolitan Area;
(ii)
matters of common interest between the Panchayats and the Municipalities in the Metropolitan Area including
coordinated spatial planning of the area, sharing of water and other physical, natural resources, the integrated
development of infrastructure and environment conservation;
(iii)
the overall objectives and priorities set out by the Government of India and the State Government;
(iv)
the extent and nature of investments likely to be made in the Metropolitan Area by agencies of the Government of India
and of the State Government and other available resources, whether financial or otherwise;
(b)
by consulting such institutions and organizations as the Government may, by order, specify.
(2)
The Chairperson of every Committee shall forward the draft development plan to the Government.
11.
Functions of the Committee.
- The Committee shall perform the following functions, namely: -
(i)
to ensure that each Panchayat or Nagar Panchayat or Municipality or Municipal Corporation in the Metropolitan Area
prepares a Development Plan for the financial year which shall be consolidated into the Metropolitan Draft Development
Plan and shall be submitted to the Government for incorporation into the State Plan;
(ii)
to review, from time to time, the implementation of the Development Plan so prepared and monitor the achievements at
the Metropolitan Area level against the targets set under different development or performance indicators;
(iii)
to formulate draft five year plans for the Metropolitan Area in their socio-economic, temporal and spatial dimensions;
(iv)
make necessary recommendations to the Government concerning the development of the Metropolitan Area;
(v)
perform such other functions as entrusted by the Government subject to the guidelines issued, from time to time.
12.
Powers of the Committee.
(1)
The Committee shall exercise such powers as may be notified under this Act or may be allotted to it by the Government
in respect of the business of the Government.
(2)
The Government may prescribe and notify the manner in which the powers so notified or allotted to the Committee may
be exercised.
(3)
While exercising such powers, the Committee shall be deemed to be a body subordinate to the Government and shall
exercise these powers for and on behalf of the Government.
13.
Meetings of the Committee.
(1)
Page 4/5
----- PAGE 5 -----
Telangana Metropolitan Planning Committee Act, 2007
The meetings of the Committee shall be held atleast once in every quarter of the financial year in such manner as may
be prescribed.
(2)
The meetings of the Committee shall be held on the scheduled date and time as may be prescribed at the Head
Quarters of the Metropolitan Area.
(3)
The Chairperson or in his absence a member elected by the members present shall preside meetings of the Committee.
(4)
The Committee may invite experts to attend its meeting.
(5)
The non-official member experts shall be paid such travelling and other allowances as may be prescribed for attending
the meetings.
(6)
The Committee shall regulate its own procedure, subject to such rules as may be prescribed.
14.
Secretary of the Committee and his functions.
- The Government shall appoint a Secretary to the Committee and he shall be responsible for maintaining the records of
the Committee, preparing the records of discussions and communication of decisions and all other incidental, ancillary
matters.
15.
Sub-Committees.
(1)
The Committee may constitute, for such purpose as it may think fit, as many sub-committees consisting wholly of
members of the Committee or wholly of other persons or partly of members of the Committee and partly of other
persons as it may consider necessary or expedient.
(2)
The members of the sub-committee, not being members of the Committee, shall be paid such fees and allowances for
attending the meetings thereof as may be prescribed.
16.
Power to remove difficulties.
- If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the Government may, by order, do anything not
inconsistent with the provisions thereof which appears to it to be necessary or expedient for the purpose of removing the
difficulty.
17.
Power to make rules.
(1)
The Government may make rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.
(2)
Every rule made under this Act shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is made, before each House of the State
Legislature, while it is in session, for a total period of fourteen days which may be comprised in one session or in two
successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session immediately following the session, both Houses agree in
making any modification in the rule or both Houses agree that the rule should not be made, the rule shall thereafter have
effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be, so however, that any such modification or
annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule.
18.
Repeal of Ordinance No. 13 of 2007.
- The Andhra Pradesh Metropolitan Planning Committee Ordinance, 2007 is hereby repealed.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 5/5