
----- PAGE 1 -----
Telangana Contingency Fund Act, 2014
Telangana Contingency Fund Act, 2014
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/68377980/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Telangana - Act
Telangana Contingency Fund Act, 2014
TELENGANA
India
Telangana Contingency Fund Act, 2014
Act 2 of 2014
Published on 3 December 2014
Commenced on 3 December 2014
[This is the version of this document from 3 December 2014.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Telangana Contingency Fund Act, 2014
(Act
No. 2 of 2014
)
Received the assent of the Governor on the 3rd December, 2014.
An Act To Provide For The Establishment of A Contingency Fund For The State of Telangana.
Whereas the State of Telangana is formed with effect from the 2nd June, 2014, under the provisions of section 3 of the
Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act, 2014 (Central Act 6 of 2014);
And whereas clause (2) of Article 267 of the Constitution of India provides that the Legislature of a State may, by law,
establish a Contingency Fund in the nature of an imprest to be entitled "the Contingency Fund of the State";
And whereas it is expedient to establish such a Contingency Fund for the newly formed State of Telangana;
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
Telangana Contingency Fund Act, 2014
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Telangana in the Sixty-fifth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
This Act may be called the Telangana Contingency Fund Act, 2014.
(2)
It shall come into force at once.
2.
Establishment of a Contingency Fund.
(1)
There shall be established for the State of Telangana a Contingency Fund in the nature of an imprest entitled "the
Contingency Fund of the State of Telangana", and consisting of a sum of fifty crores of rupees withdrawn from the
Consolidated Fund of the State.
(2)
Such Contingency Fund shall be at the disposal of the Governor of State of Telangana and he shall have authority to
make advances therefrom for the purpose of meeting any unforeseen expenditure, pending authorization of such
expenditure by the State Legislature by law under Article 205 or Article 206 of the Constitution of India.
(3)
As often as any such expenditure is authorized by law as aforesaid, the State Government shall recoup to the
Contingency Fund an amount equal to the advance taken from such Fund to meet the expenditure.
3.
Power to make rules.
(1)
The State Government may, by notification, in the Official Gazette, make rules to carry out all or any of the purposes of
this Act.
(2)
Every rule made under this Act shall, immediately after it is made, be laid before each House of the State Legislature, if
it is in session and if it is not in session, in the session immediately following for a total period of fourteen days which
may be comprised in one session or in two successive sessions and if, before the expiration of the session in which it is
so laid or the session immediately following, the Legislature of the State agrees in making any modification in the rule or
in the annulment of the rule, the rule shall, from the date on which the modification or annulment is notified, have effect
only in such modified form or shall stand annulled as the case may be, so however, that any such modification or
annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule.
4.
Repeal.
- The Andhra Pradesh Contingency Fund Act, 1957 is hereby repealed.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2