
----- PAGE 1 -----
Telangana Horse Race (Abolition of Turf Agencies) Act, 1983
Telangana Horse Race (Abolition of Turf Agencies) Act, 1983
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/88880520/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Telangana - Act
Telangana Horse Race (Abolition of Turf Agencies) Act, 1983
TELENGANA
India
Telangana Horse Race (Abolition of Turf Agencies) Act, 1983
Act 17 of 1983
Published on 21 May 2016
Commenced on 21 May 2016
[This is the version of this document from 21 May 2016.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Telangana Horse Race (Abolition of Turf Agencies) Act, 1983
(Act
No. 17 of 1983
)
Last Updated 28th December, 2019
The Andhra Pradesh Horse Race (Abolition of Turf Agencies) Act, 1983 received the assent of the President on the
22nd November, 1983. The said Act in force in the combined State as on 02.06.2014 has been adapted to the State of
Telangana under section 101 of the Andhra Pradesh Reorgnisation Act, 2014 (Central Act 6 of 2014) vide. the
Notification issued in G.O.Ms.No. 80, Home (Legal) Department, dated 21.05.2016.
1.
Short title and commencement.
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
Telangana Horse Race (Abolition of Turf Agencies) Act, 1983
(1)
This Act may be called the [Telangana]
[Substituted by G.O.Ms.No.80, Home (Legal) Department, dated 21.05.2016.]
Horse Race (Abolition of Turf Agencies) Act, 1983.
(2)
It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 29th June, 1983.
2.
Definitions.
- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, -
(a)
'bet' includes wager;
(b)
'Government' means the State Government;
(c)
'horse' means a male horse and includes mare, gelding, filly, pony or any other horse by whatever name called;
(d)
'horse-race' means any race in which any horse runs or is made to run in competition with any other horse, -
(i)
for any prize of whatever nature or kind;
(ii)
for any bet made or to be made, or
(iii)
for both such prize and bet, in respect of any such horse, or the rider thereof;
(e)
'turf agency' means any agency which carried on the business of,-
(i)
receiving bets from the public in general; or
(ii)
purchasing tickets on behalf of punters; or
(iii)
making bets on behalf of punters, for commission or remuneration in respect of any horse run in a horse-race or in
respect of any rider of such horse;
(f)
'turf agent' includes any person who, by way of business,-
(i)
receives bets from the public in general; or
(ii)
purchases tickets on behalf of punters; or
(iii)
makes bets on behalf of punters, for commission or remuneration in respect of any horse run in a horse-race or in
respect of any rider of such horse.
3.
Abolition of the system of turf agencies.
- Subject to the provisions of section 10, the system of carrying on the business of a turf agency or a turf agent in
respect of any horse-race is hereby abolished.
4.
Prohibition of the system of turf agencies.
- Subject to the provisions of section 10, no person shall carry on the business of a turf agency or a turf agent in respect
of any horse-race.
5.
Penalty.
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
Telangana Horse Race (Abolition of Turf Agencies) Act, 1983
- Any person who contravenes or attempts to contravene or abets the contravention of the provisions of section 4 or any
rules made under this Act, shall be punishable with rigorous imprisonment for a period which may extend to three years
and shall also be liable to fine.
6.
Offences by companies.
(1)
Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a company, every person who at the time of the offence was
committed, was incharge of, and was responsible to the company for the conduct of the business of the company, as
well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly:
Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable to any punishment, if he proves
that the offence was committed without his knowledge or that he exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission
of such offence.
(2)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where any offence under this Act has been committed by a
company and it is proved that the offence has been committed with the consent or connivance of, or is attributable to
any neglect on the part of any director; manager, secretary or other officer of the company such director, manager,
secretary or other officer shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly.
Explanation. - For the purposes of this section,
(a)
'company' means any body corporate, and includes a firm or other association of individuals; and
(b)
'director' in relation to a firm means a partner in the firm.
7.
Indemnity.
(1)
No suit or other proceeding shall lie against the Government for any act done or purporting to be done under this Act, or
any rule made thereunder.
(2)
No suit, prosecution or other proceeding shall lie against any authority or officer, or servant of the Government for any
act done or purporting to be done in good faith under this Act, or any rule made thereunder.
8.
Power to make rules.
(1)
The Government may, by notification in the [Telangana Gazette]
[Substituted by G.O.Ms.No.80, Home (Legal) Department, dated 21.05.2016.]
, make rules to carry out the purposes of this Act.
(2)
Every rule made under this Act shall, immediately after it is made, be laid before each House of the State Legislature if it
is in session and if it is not in session, in the session immediately following, for a total period of fourteen days which may
be comprised in one session or in two successive sessions, and if, before the expiration of the session in which it is so
laid or the session immediately following, both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or in the annulment
of the rule, the rule shall, from the date on which the modification or annulment is notified in the [Telangana Gazette]
[Substituted by G.O.Ms.No.80, Home (Legal) Department, dated 21.05.2016.]
, have effect only in such modified form or shall stand annuled, as the case may be, so however, that any such
modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule.
9.
Act to override other laws, decrees, etc.
- The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law
for the time being in force, or any custom, usage or decree or order of a court or other authority.
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
Telangana Horse Race (Abolition of Turf Agencies) Act, 1983
10.
Savings.
- Nothing in this Act shall apply to the licensed book makers (or bookies), duly licensed by the Hyderabad Race Club
and operating within the premises of the Hyderabad Race Course, as referred to in clause (c) of section 12 of [the
Telangana Horse Racing and Betting Tax Regulation, 1358F (Regulation XLIX of 1358F.)]
[Repealed by Act
No.23 of 2017
.]
.
11.
Repeal of Ordinance 9 of 1983.
- The Andhra Pradesh Horse-Race (Abolition of Turf Agencies) Ordinance, 1983, is hereby repealed.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4