
----- PAGE 1 -----
Telangana Court-fees and Suits Valuation Act, 1956
Telangana Court-fees and Suits Valuation Act, 1956
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/19846625/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
19
]
State of Telangana - Act
Telangana Court-fees and Suits Valuation Act, 1956
TELENGANA
India
Telangana Court-fees and Suits Valuation Act, 1956
Act 7 of 1956
Published on 1 June 2016
Commenced on 1 June 2016
[This is the version of this document from 1 June 2016.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Telangana Court-fees and Suits Valuation Act, 1956
(Act
No. 7 of 1956
)
Last Updated 20th February, 2020
Chapter I
Preliminary.
This Act was extended to the territories specified in sub-section (1) of section 3 of the States Reorganisation Act, 1956
(Central Act 37 of 1956) by section 2 of the Andhra Pradesh Court-fees and Suits Valuation (Amendment) Act, 1958
(Andhra Pradesh Act IV of 1958), repealing the corresponding law in force in those territories. The Andhra Pradesh
Court-fees and Suits Valuation Act, 1956, in force in the combined State, as on 02.06.2014, has been adapted to the
Page 1/37
----- PAGE 2 -----
Telangana Court-fees and Suits Valuation Act, 1956
State of Telangana, under section 101 of the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act, 2014 (Central Act 6 of 2014) vide. the
Telangana Adaptation of Laws Order, 2016, issued in G.O.Ms.No.45, Law (F) Department, dated 01.06.2016.
1.
Short title, extent and commencement.
(1)
This Act may be called [the Telangana]
[Substituted by G.O.Ms.No.45, Law (F) Department, dated 01.06.2016.]
Court-fees and Suits Valuation Act, 1956.
(2)
It extends to the whole of the State of [Telangana]
[Substituted by G.O.Ms.No.45, Law (F) Department, dated 01.06.2016.]
.
(3)
It shall come into force on such date as the State Government may, by notification in the [Telangana]
[Substituted by G.O.Ms.No.45, Law (F) Department, dated 01.06.2016.]
Gazette appoint.
2.
Application of Act.
(1)
The provisions of this Act shall not apply to documents presented or to be presented before an officer serving under the
Central Government.
(2)
The provisions of this Act relating to the levy of fee shall be subject to the provisions of any other law relating to the levy
of fee in respect of proceedings under such law.
3.
Definitions.
- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(i)
"appeal" includes a cross-objection;
(ii)
"Court" means any Civil, Revenue or Criminal Court and includes a Tribunal or other authority having jurisdiction under
any special or local law to decide questions affecting the rights of parties;
(iii)
"prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this Act; and
(iv)
expressions used and not defined in this Act or in [the Telangana General Clauses Act, 1891 (Act I of 1891)]
[Substituted by G.O.Ms.No.45, Law (F) Department, dated 01.06.2016.]
, but defined in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act 5 of 1908), shall have the meanings respectively
assigned to them in the said Code.
Chapter II
Liability To Pay Fee.
4.
Levy of fee in Courts and public offices.
- No document which is chargeable with fee under this Act shall-
(i)
be filed, exhibited or recorded in, or be acted on or furnished by, any Court including the High Court, or
(ii)
be filed, exhibited or recorded in, any public office, or be acted on or furnished by any public officer, except on payment
of the fee chargeable in respect of such document under this Act:
Provided that a document in respect of which the proper fee has not been paid may be filed or exhibited in a Criminal 
Court if the Court deems it necessary in the interests of justice to do so.
Page 2/37
----- PAGE 3 -----
Telangana Court-fees and Suits Valuation Act, 1956
5.
Collection of proper fee on documents.
- When a document on which the whole or any part of the fee payable under this Act has not been paid is produced or
received in any Court or public office, the Court or the head of the office may, at any time, direct the person by whom
such fee is payable to pay the fee or part thereof, as the case may be, within such time as may be fixed; and upon such
payment, the document shall be dealt with as if the full fee had been paid in the first instance.
6.
Multifarious suits.
(1)
In any suit in which separate and distinct reliefs based on the same cause of action are sought, the plaint shall be
chargeable with a fee on the aggregate value of the reliefs:
Provided that if a relief sought is only ancillary to the main relief, the plaint shall be chargeable only on the value of the
main relief.
(2)
Where more reliefs than one based on the same cause of action are sought in the alternative in any suit, the plaint shall
be chargeable with the highest of the fees leviable on the reliefs.
(3)
(a)
Where a suit is based on two or more distinct and different causes of action and separate reliefs are sought in respect
thereof, either alternatively or cumulatively, the plaint shall be chargeable with the aggregate amount of the fees that
would be chargeable on the plaints under this Act if separate suits were instituted in respect of the several causes of
action:
Provided that, where the causes of action in respect of reliefs claimed alternatively against the same person arise out of
the same transaction, the plaint shall be chargeable only with the highest of the fees chargeable on them.
(b)
Nothing in this sub-section shall be deemed to affect any power conferred upon a Court by rule 6 of Order II in the First
Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act 5 of 1908).
(4)
The provisions of this section shall apply mutatis mutandis to memoranda of appeals, applications, petitions and written
statements.
Explanation. - For the purpose of this section, a suit for possession of immovable property and for mesne profits
therefrom shall be deemed to be based on the same cause of action.
7.
Determination of market value.
- Save as otherwise provided, where the fee payable under this Act depends on the market value of any property, such
value shall be determined as on the date of presentation of the plaint.
8.
Set-off or counterclaim.
- A written statement pleading a set-off or counter-claim shall be chargeable with fee in the same manner as a plaint.
9.
Documents falling under two or more descriptions.
- A document falling within two or more descriptions in this Act shall, where the fees chargeable thereunder are different,
be chargeable only with the highest of such fees:
Provided that, where one of such descriptions is special and another general, the fee chargeable shall be the fee
appropriate to the special description.
Chapter III
Determination of Fee.
10.
Statement of particulars of subject-matter of suit and plaintiff's valuation thereof.
- In every suit in which the fee payable under this Act on the plaint depends on the market value of the subject-matter of
the suit, the plaintiff shall file with the plaint, a statement in the prescribed form, of particulars of the subject-matter of the
Page 3/37
----- PAGE 4 -----
Telangana Court-fees and Suits Valuation Act, 1956
suit and his valuation thereof unless such particulars and the valuation are contained in the plaint.
11.
Decision as to proper fee.
(1)
(a)
In every suit the Court shall, before ordering the plaint to be registered, decide on the allegations contained in the plaint
and on the materials furnished by the plaintiff the proper fee payable thereon.
(b)
The decision of the Court under clause (a) regarding the proper fee payable shall be subject to review from time to time
as occasion requires.
(2)
Any defendant may plead that the subject-matter of the suit has not been properly valued or that the fee paid is not
sufficient. All questions arising on such pleas shall be heard and decided before the hearing of the suit as contemplated
by Order XVIII in the First Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act 5 of 1908). If the Court decides
that the subject-matter of the suit is not properly valued or that the fee paid is not sufficient, the Court shall fix a date
before which the subject-matter of the suit shall be valued in accordance with the Court's decision and the deficit fee
shall be paid. If within the time allowed, the subject-matter of the suit is not valued in accordance with the Court's
decision or if the deficit fee is not paid, the plaint shall be rejected and the Court shall pass such order as it deems just
regarding costs of the suit.
(3)
(a)
A Court of Appeal, in which an appeal is filed, may, either of its own motion or on the application of any party, consider
the correctness of any order passed by the lower Court regarding the fee payable on the plaint or written statement or in
any other proceeding in the lower Court and determine the proper fee payable thereon.
Explanation. - The power exercisable by a Court of appeal under this clause shall be exercisable even if the appeal
relates only to a part of the subject-matter of the suit.
(b)
If the Court of Appeal decides that the fee paid in the lower Court is not sufficient, the Court shall require the party liable
to pay the deficit fee within such time as may be fixed by it.
(c)
If the deficit fee is not paid within the time fixed and the default is in respect of a relief which has been dismissed by the
lower Court and which the appellant seeks in appeal, the appeal shall be dismissed, but if the default is in respect of a
relief which has been decreed by the lower Court, the deficit fee shall be recoverable as if it were an arrear of land
revenue.
(d)
If the fee paid in the lower Court is in excess of the proper fee, the Court shall direct the refund of the excess to the party
who is entitled to it.
(4)
Any question relating to the value for the purpose of determining the jurisdiction of Courts shall be heard and decided
before the hearing of the suit as contemplated by Order XVIII in the First Schedule to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908
(Central Act 5 of 1908).
12.
Relinquishment of portion of claim.
- A plaintiff who has been required to pay additional fee may relinquish a part of his claim and apply to have the plaint so
amended that the fee paid is sufficient for the claim made in the plaint as amended. The Court may allow such
application on such terms as it considers just, the Court may permit the plaintiff at any later stage of the suit to add to
claim the part so relinquished on payment of the additional fee.
13.
Fee payable on written statements.
- Where fee is payable under this Act on a written statement filed by a defendant, the provisions of section 11 shall apply
to the determination and levy of the fee payable on such written statement, the defendant concerned being regarded for
Page 4/37
----- PAGE 5 -----
Telangana Court-fees and Suits Valuation Act, 1956
the said purpose as the plaintiff and the plaintiff or the co-defendant or the third party against whom the claim is made
being regarded as the defendant.
14.
Fee payable on appeals, etc.
- The provisions of sections 10 to 12 relating to the determination and levy of fee on plaints in suits shall apply mutatis
mutandis to the determination and levy of fee in respect of a memorandum of appeal, cross-objection or other
proceeding in second appeal or in an appeal under the Letters Patent.
15.
Fee payable on petitions, applications, etc.
- The provisions of sections 10 to 12 shall apply to the determinations and levy of fee in respect of petitions, applications
and other proceedings in Courts in the same way as they apply to the determination and levy of fee on plaints in suits.
16.
Court-fee Examiners.
(1)
The High Court may depute officers to be designated Court-fee Examiners to inspect the records of Subordinate Courts
with a view to examine the correctness of the valuation of subject-matter and sufficiency of fee in respect of proceedings
in such Courts, and orders, if any passed by the Courts in relation thereto.
(2)
Questions relating to valuation of subject-matter and sufficiency of fee in respect of proceedings in a Court raised in
reports submitted by such Court-fee Examiners shall be heard and decided by such Courts.
17.
Inquiry and commission.
- For the purpose of deciding whether the subject-matter of a suit or other proceeding has been properly valued or
whether the fee paid is sufficient, the Court may hold such inquiry as it considers necessary and may, if it thinks fit, issue
a commission to any person directing him to make such local or other investigation as may be necessary and to report
thereon to the Court.
18.
Notice to the State Government.
- In any inquiry relating to the fee payable on a plaint, written statement, petition, memorandum of appeal or other
document, or to the valuation of the subject-matter of the claim to which the plaint, written statement, petition,
memorandum of appeal or other document relates, in so far as such valuation affects the fee payable, the Court may, if
it considers it just or necessary to do so, give notice to the State Government; and where such notice is given, the State
Government shall be deemed to be a party to the suit or other proceeding as regards the determination of any question
in the inquiry aforesaid and the Court's decision on such question shall, where it passes a decree or final order in such
suit or proceeding, form part of such decree or final order.
Chapter IV
Computation of Fee
19.
Fee how computed.
- The fee payable under this Act shall be computed in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter, Chapter VI,
Chapter VIII and Schedules I and II.
20.
Suits for money.
- In a suit for money (including a suit for damages or compensation, or arrears of maintenance, of annuities, or of other
sums payable periodically), fee shall be computed on the amount claimed.
21.
Suits for immovable property.
- Subject to the other provisions of this Act, in a suit relating to immovable property, fee shall be computed on
three-fourths of the market value of the property.
22.
Suits for maintenance and annuities.
Page 5/37
----- PAGE 6 -----
Telangana Court-fees and Suits Valuation Act, 1956
- In the suits hereinafter mentioned, fee shall be computed as follows:-
(a)
in a suit for maintenance on the amount claimed to be payable for one year;
(b)
in a suit for enhancement or reduction of maintenance, on the amount by which the annual maintenance is sought to be
enhanced or reduced;
(c)
in a suit for annuities or other sums payable periodically, on five times the amount claimed to be payable for one year:
Provided that, where the annuity is payable for less than five years, the fee shall be computed on the aggregate of the
sums payable.
23.
Suits for movable property.
(1)
In a suit for movable property other than documents of title, fee shall be computed-
(a)
where the subject-matter has a market value, on such value; or
(b)
where the subject-matter has no market value, on the amount at which the relief sought is valued in the plaint or at
which such relief is valued by the Court, whichever is higher.
(2)
(a)
In a suit for possession of documents of title, fee shall be computed on one-fourth of the amount or of the market value
of the property secured by the document where the plaintiff's title to the money or the property secured by the document
is denied:
Provided that where such denial relates only to a portion of the amount or property, fee shall be computed on one-fourth
of such portion of the amount or on one-fourth of the market value of such portion of the property.
(b)
In a suit for possession of documents of title, where the plaintiff's title to the money or the property secured by the
document is not denied, fee shall be computed on the amount at which the relief sought is valued in the plaint or at
which such relief is valued by the Court, whichever is higher.
Explanation. - The expression "document of title" means a document which purports or operates to create declare,
assign, limit or extinguish, whether in present or in future, any right, title or interest, whether vested or contingent, in any
property.
24.
Suits for declaration.
- In a suit for a declaration with or without consequential relief, not falling under section 25-
(a)
where the prayer is for a declaration and for possession of the property to which the declaration relates, fee shall be
computed on the market value of the movable property or three-fourths of the market value of the immovable property or
on rupees three hundred, whichever is higher;
(b)
where the prayer is for a declaration and for consequential injunction and the relief sought is with reference to any
immovable property, fee shall be computed on one-half of the market value of the property or on rupees three hundred,
whichever is higher;
(c)
where the prayer relates to the plaintiff's exclusive right to use, sell, print or exhibit any mark, name, book, picture,
design or other thing and is based on an infringement of such exclusive right, fee shall be computed on the amount at
which the relief sought is valued in the plaint or at which such relief is valued by the Court, whichever is higher;
(d)
in other cases, whether the subject-matter of the suit is capable of valuation or not, fee shall be computed on the amount
at which the relief sought is valued in the plaint or at which such relief is valued by the Court, whichever is higher.
Page 6/37
----- PAGE 7 -----
Telangana Court-fees and Suits Valuation Act, 1956
25.
Adoption suits.
- In a suit for a declaration involving a question as to the factum or validity of an adoption, fee shall be computed on
one-half of the market value of the movable and immovable property involved in, or affected by such declaration or on
rupees five hundred, whichever is higher.
26.
Suits for injunction.
- In a suit for injunction-
(a)
where the relief sought relates to any immovable property, and where the plaintiff's title to the property is denied, fee
shall be computed on one-half of the market value of the property or on rupees two hundred, whichever is higher;
(b)
where the relief sought relates to the plaintiff's exclusive right to use, sell, print or exhibit any mark, name, book, picture,
design or other thing and is based on an infringement of such exclusive right, fee shall be computed on the amount at
which the relief sought is valued in the plaint or at which such relief is valued by the Court, whichever is higher;
(c)
in any other case, whether the subject-matter of the suit has a market value or not, fee shall be computed on the amount
at which the relief sought is valued in the plaint or at which such relief is valued by the Court, whichever is higher.
27.
Suits relating to trust property.
(1)
In a suit for possession or joint possession of trust property or for a declaration, with or without consequential relief,
between trustees or rival claimants to the office of trustee or between a trustee and a person who has ceased to be a
trustee, fee shall he computed on one-fifth of the market value of the property subject to a maximum fee of rupees two
hundred or where the property has no market value, on rupees one thousand.
(2)
Where the property has no market value, value for the purpose of determining the jurisdiction of Courts shall be the
amount stated in the plaint.
Explanation. - For the purpose of this section, property comprised in a Hindu, Muslim or other religious or charitable
endowment shall be deemed to be trust property and the manager of any such property shall be deemed to be the
trustee thereof.
28.
Suits for possession under the Specific Relief Act, 1877.
- In a suit for possession of immovable property under section 9 of the Specific Relief Act, 1877 (Central Act 1 of 1877),
fee shall be computed on one-half of the market value of the property or on rupees two hundred, whichever is higher.
29.
Suits for possession not otherwise provided for.
- In a suit for possession of immovable property not otherwise provided for, fee shall be computed on three fourths of the
market value of the property or on rupees three hundred, whichever is higher.
30.
Suits relating to easements.
- In a suit relating to an easement by the dominant or the servant owner, fee shall be computed on the amount at which
the relief sought is valued in the plaint or at which such relief is valued by the Court, whichever is higher:
Provided that, where compensation is claimed in addition to the relief relating to such easement, fee shall be paid on the
amount claimed as compensation in addition to the fee payable on the relief relating to the easement.
31.
Suits relating to mortgages.
(1)
In a suit to recover the money due on a mortgage, whether the sale of the mortgaged property is prayed for or not, fee
shall be computed on the amount claimed.
(2)
Page 7/37
----- PAGE 8 -----
Telangana Court-fees and Suits Valuation Act, 1956
If the holder of a prior mortgage or charge impleaded as a defendant in such a suit prays in his written statement for the
determination of the amount due on his mortgage or charge and for a direction in the decree for the payment of such
amount to him, fee shall be payable on the written statement computed on the amount claimed:
Provided that, where the holder of the prior mortgage or charge has paid a fee in any other proceeding on the claim to
which his written statement relates, credit shall be given for the fee paid by him in such other proceeding.
(3)
Where, in such a suit, the mortgaged property is sold and the holder of a prior or subsequent mortgage or charge
applies for payment to him, out of the sale proceeds, of the amount due on his mortgage or charge, such holder of the
prior or subsequent mortgage or charge shall pay on his application a fee computed on the amount claimed by him:
Provided that, where the holder of a prior or subsequent mortgage or charge is a party to the suit in which the sale was
held and has paid fee on the written statement filed by him in the suit, no fee shall be payable by him on the application
for payment out of the sale proceeds:
Provided further that, where the holder of a prior or subsequent mortgage or charge, not being a party to the suit in
which the sale is held, has paid a fee in any other proceeding on the claim to which his application relates, credit shall
be given for the fee paid by him in such other proceeding.
(4)
In a suit by a co-mortgagee, fee shall be computed on the amount claimed on the entire mortgage:
Provided that, where any other co-mortgagee impleaded as defendant in such suit claims on the entire mortgage a sum
larger than that claimed in the plaint, the difference between the fee computed on the entire sum claimed in such
defendant's written statement and the fee computed on the entire sum claimed in the plaint shall be payable on the
written statement.
(5)
(a)
In a suit by a sub-mortgagee to recover the amount claimed on the sub-mortgage by sale of the mortgagee's interest in
the mortgaged property, fee shall be computed on the amount claimed under the sub-mortgage.
(b)
In a suit by a sub-mortgagee, if the prayer is for the sale of the property mortgaged to the original mortgagee and the
original mortgagor is also impleaded as a defendant, fee shall be computed on the entire amount claimed on the original
mortgage which is sub-mortgaged to him.
(6)
Where the holder of a prior or subsequent mortgage or charge is impleaded in a suit by a co-mortgagee to which
sub-section (4) applies, or in a suit by a sub-mortgagee to which sub-section (5) applies, the provisions of sub-sections
(2) and (3) shall apply mutatis mutandis to a written statement or an application filed by such holder of mortgage or
charge.
(7)
Where the original mortgagee who is impleaded in a suit to which the provisions of sub-section (5) (b) apply claims on
the mortgage sub-mortgaged by him a larger amount than is claimed in the plaint, the provisions of subsection (4) shall
apply mutatis mutandis to the written statement of such original mortgagee.
(8)
In a suit against a mortgagee for redemption of a mortgage, fee shall be computed on the amount due on the mortgage
as stated in the plaint or on one-fourth of the principal amount secured under the mortgage, whichever is higher:
Provided that, where the amount due on the mortgage is found to be more than the amount on which fee has been paid
by the plaintiff, no decree shall fee passed until the deficit fee is paid:
Provided further that, in the case of any usufructuary or anomalous mortgagee, if the plaintiff prays for redemption as
well as for accounts of surplus profits, fee shall be levied separately on the relief for accounts as in a suit for accounts.
(9)
In a suit by a mortgagee to foreclose the mortgage or, in the case of a mortgage by conditional sale, to have the sale
declared absolute, fee shall be computed on the amount claimed in the plaint.
32.
Suits for accounts.
(1)
Page 8/37
----- PAGE 9 -----
Telangana Court-fees and Suits Valuation Act, 1956
In a suit for accounts, fee shall be computed on the amount estimated in the plaint.
(2)
Where the amount payable to the plaintiff as ascertained in the suit is in excess of the amount as estimated in the plaint,
no decree directing payment of the amount as so ascertained shall be passed until the difference between the fee
actually paid and the fee that would have been payable had the suit comprised the whole of the amount so ascertained,
is paid.
(3)
Where in any such suit it is found that any amount is payable to the defendant, no decree shall be passed in his favour
until he pays the fee due on the amount.
(4)
Whether or not a decree is passed under subsection (2) or sub-section (3), the fee payble under either of the said
sub-sections shall be recoverable as if it were an arrear of land revenue.
33.
Suits for dissolution of partnership.
(1)
In a suit for dissolution of partnership and accounts or for accounts of dissolved partnership, fee shall be computed on
the value of the plaintiff's share in the partnership as estimated by the plaintiff.
(2)
If the value of the plaintiff's share as ascertained in the suit exceeds the value as estimated in the plaint, no decree, or
where there has been a preliminary decree, no final decree shall be passed in favour of the plaintiff, no payment shall be
made out of the assets of the partnership and no property shall be allotted towards the plaintiff's share, until the
difference between the fee actually paid and the fee that would have been payable had the suit comprised the whole of
the value so ascertained, is paid.
(3)
No final decree shall be passed in favour of a defendant, no payment shall be made out of the assets of the partnership
and no property shall be allotted towards his share in any such suit until the fee computed on the amount or value of his
share of the assets of the partnership is paid.
(4)
Whether or not a decree is passed, payment made or property allotted under sub-section (2) or sub-section (3), the fee
payable under either of the said sub-sections shall be recoverable as if it were an arrear of land revenue.
34.
Partition suits.
(1)
In a suit for partition and separate possession of a share of joint family property or of property owned, jointly or in
common, by a plaintiff who has been excluded from possession of such property, fee shall be computed on the market
value of the movable property or three-fourths of the market value of the immovable property included in the plaintiff's
share.
(2)
In a suit for partition and separate possession of joint family property or property owned, jointly or in common, by a
plaintiff who is in joint possession of such property, fee shall be paid at the following rates:-
(i)
a District Munsif's Court
...
Rupees fifty
(ii)
a Subordinate Judge's Court or a District Court.
Rupees one hundred if the value of plaintiff's share is less than
Rs.10,000.
Rupees two hundred if the value is not less than Rs. 10,000.
(3)
Where, in a suit falling under sub-section (1) or subsection (2), the plaintiff or the defendant seeks also cancellation of
Page 9/37
----- PAGE 10 -----
Telangana Court-fees and Suits Valuation Act, 1956
decree or other document of the nature specified in section 37, separate fee shall be payable on the relief of cancellation
in the manner specified in that section.
35.
Suits for joint possession.
- In a suit for joint possession of joint family property or of property owned, jointly or in common, by a plaintiff who has
been excluded from possession, fee shall be computed on the market value of the movable property or three-fourths of
the market value of the immovable property included in the plaintiff's share.
36.
Administration suits.
(1)
In a suit for the administration of an estate, fee shall be levied on the plaint at the rates specified in section 47.
(2)
Where any amount or share or part of the assets of the estate is found due to the plaintiff, and the fee computed on the
amount or the market value of such share or part of the assets exceeds the fee paid on the plaint, no payment shall be
made and no decree directing payment of money or confirming title to such share or part of the assets shall be passed
until the difference between the fee actually paid and the fee computed on the amount or value of such share or part of
such assets is paid.
(3)
No payment shall be made and no decree directing payment of money or confirming title to any share or part of the
assets of the estate shall be passed in favour of a defendant in a suit for administration until the fee computed on the
amount or value of such share or part of such assets is paid by such defendant.
(4)
In computing the fee payable by a plaintiff or by a defendant under sub-section (2) or sub-section (3), credit shall be
given for the fee, if any, paid by such plaintiff or by such defendant in any other proceeding in respect of the claim on the
basis of which such amount or share or part of the assets of the estate becomes due to such plaintiff or to such
defendant.
(5)
Whether or not payment is made or decree passed under sub-section (2) or sub-section (3), the fee payable under
either of the said sub-sections shall be recoverable as if it were an arrear of land revenue.
37.
Suits for cancellation of decrees, etc.
(1)
In a suit for cancellation of a decree for money or other property having a money value, or other document which
purports or operates to create, declare, assign, limit or extinguish, whether in present or in future, any right, title or
interest in money, movable or immovable property, fee shall be computed on the value of the subject-matter of the suit,
and such value shall be deemed to be-
(a)
if the whole decree or other document is sought to be cancelled, the amount or value of the property for which the
decree was passed or other document was executed;
(b)
if a part of the decree or other document is sought to be cancelled, such part of the amount or of the value of the
property.
(2)
If the decree or other document is such that the liability under it cannot be split up and the relief claimed relates only to a
particular item of property belonging to the plaintiff or to the plaintiff's share in any such property, fee shall be computed
on the value of such property or share or on the amount of the decree, whichever as less.
Explanation. - A suit to set aside an award shall be deemed to be a suit for cancellation of a decree within the meaning
of this section.
38.
Suits to set aside attachment, etc.
(1)
Page 10/37
----- PAGE 11 -----
Telangana Court-fees and Suits Valuation Act, 1956
In a suit to set aside an attachment by a Civil or Revenue Court of any movable or immovable property or of any interest
therein or of any interest in revenue, or to set aside an order passed on an application made to set aside the attachment,
fee shall be computed on the amount for which the property was attached or on one-fourth of the market value of the
property attached, whichever is less.
(2)
In a suit to set aside any other summary decision or order of a Civil or Revenue Court, if the subject-matter of the suit
has a market value, fee shall be computed on one-fourth of such value, and in other cases, fee shall be payable at the
rates specified in section 47.
Explanation. - For the purpose of this section, the Registrar of Co-operative Societies shall be deemed to be a Civil
Court.
39.
Suits for specific performance.
- In a suit for specific performance, with or without possession, fee shall be payable-
(a)
in the case of a contract of sale, computed on the amount of the consideration;
(b)
in the case of a contract of mortgage, computed on the amount agreed to be secured by the mortgage;
(c)
in the case of a contract of lease, computed on the aggregate amount of the penalty or premium, if any, and of the
average of the annual rent agreed to be paid;
(d)
in the case of a contract of exchange, computed on the amount of the consideration, or as the case may be, on the
market value of the movable property or three-fourths of the market value of the immovable property sought to be taken
in exchange;
(e)
in other cases, where the consideration for the promise sought to be enforced has a market value, computed on the
market value of the movable property or three-fourths of the market value of the immovable property or where such
consideration has no market value, at the rates specified in section 47.
40.
Suits between landlord and tenant.
(1)
In the following suits between landlord and tenant, namely:-
(a)
for the delivery by a tenant of the counterpart of a lease or for acceptance of patta in exchange for a muchilika;
(b)
for the enhancement of rent;
(c)
for the delivery by a landlord of a lease or for obtaining a patta in exchange for a muchilika;
(d)
for the recovery of possession of immovable property from which a tenant has been illegally ejected by the landlord;
(e)
for establishing or challenging a right of occupancy;
fee shall be levied on the amount of rent for the immovable property to which the suit relates, payable for the year next
before the date of presenting the plaint.
(2)
In a suit for recovery of immovable property from a tenant including a tenant holding over, fee shall be computed on the
premium, if any and on the rent payable for the year next before the date of presenting the plaint.
Explanation. - Rent includes also damages for use and occupation payable by a tenant holding over.
(3)
In an appeal from a suit to contest a distraint under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) of section 95 of [the Andhra
Pradesh (Andhra Area) Estates Land Act, 1908 (Act I of 1908),]
Page 11/37
----- PAGE 12 -----
Telangana Court-fees and Suits Valuation Act, 1956
[Substituted for the original short title by the First Schedule to the Andhra Pradesh Laws (Amendment of Short Titles)
Act, 1961 (Andhra Pradesh Act IX of 1961.)]
or to contest the right of sale under section 112 of that Act, fee shall be charged on the amount of the arrears for which
the distraint has been made or the sale is proposed to be held.
41.
Suits for mesne profits.
(1)
In a suit for mesne profits or for immovable property and mesne profits therefrom, fee shall, in respect of mesne profits,
be computed on the amount claimed as mesne profits. If the profits ascertained to be due to the plaintiff are in excess of
the profits as claimed, no decree shall be passed until the difference between the fee actually paid and the fee that
would have been payable had the suit comprised the whole of the profits so ascertained is paid.
(2)
Where a decree directs an enquiry as to the mesne profits which have accrued on the property, whether prior or
subsequent to the institution of the suit, no final decree shall be passed until the difference between the fee actually paid
and the fee that would have been payable had the suit comprised the whole of the profits accrued due till the date of
such decree is paid.
(3)
Where, for a period subsequent to the date of the decree or final decree, such decree or final decree directs payment of
mesne profits at a specified rate such decree or final decree shall not be executed until the fee computed on the amount
claimed in execution is paid.
(4)
Whether or not a decree is passed under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) or executed under sub-section (3), the fee
payable under any of the said sub-sections, shall be recoverable as if it were an arrear of land revenue.
42.
Suits under the Telangana Survey and Boundaries Act, 1923.
- In a suit under section 14 of [the Telangana Survey and Boundaries Act, 1923 (Act VIII of 1923),]
[Adapted by G.O.Ms.No.45, Law (F) Department, dated 01.06.2016.]
fee shall be computed on one-half of the market value of the property affected by the determination of the boundary or
on rupees three hundred, whichever is higher.
43.
Suits to alter or cancel entry in a register.
- In a suit to alter or cancel any entry in a register of the names of proprietors of revenue-paying estates, the fee payable
shall be fifteen rupees.
44.
Suits relating to public matters.
- In a suit for relief under section 14 of the Religious Endowments Act, 1863 (Central Act 20 of 1863), or under section
91 or section 92 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act 5 of 1908), the fee payable shall be fifty rupees.
45.
Interpleader suits.
(1)
In an interpleader suit, fee shall be payable on the plaint at the rates specified in section 47.
(2)
Where issues are framed regarding contentions of the claimants, fee shall be computed on the amount of the debt or the
money or the market value of the movable property or three-fourths of the market value of the immovable property,
which forms the subject-matter of the suit. In levying such fee, credit shall be given for the fee paid on the plaint; and the
balance of the fee shall be paid in equal shares by the claimants who claim the debt or the sum of money or the property
adversely to each other.
(3)
Value for the purpose of determining the jurisdiction of courts shall be the amount of the debt, or the sum of money or
the market value of the movable property or three-fourths of the market value of the immovable property to which the
suit relates.
Page 12/37
----- PAGE 13 -----
Telangana Court-fees and Suits Valuation Act, 1956
46.
Third party proceedings.
- In third party proceedings, fee shall be levied on one-half of the value of the contribution or indemnity claimed against a
third party or against a co-defendant if a claim is made against him:
Provided that, if the suit against the defendant who has filed the third party notice is dismissed, wholly or in part, he shall
be entitled to a refund of the whole or a proportionate part of the fee paid by him.
Explanation. - The provisions of this section shall also apply to counter-claims made in third party proceedings.
47.
Suits not otherwise provided for.
- ln suits not otherwise provided for, fee shall be payable at the following rates:-
When the amount or value of the subject-matter in dispute-
(i) is less than
Rs. 3,000
....
Rupees fifty
(ii) is not less than.Rs. 3,000 but does not
exceed Rs. 5,000.
Rupees one hundred.
(iii) exceeds Rs. 5,000 but does not exceed Rs.
10,000.
Rupees two hundred.
(iv) exceeds Rs. 10,000.
?
Rupees three hundred.
48.
Fee on memorandum of appeal against order relating to compensation.
- The fee payable under this Act on a memorandum of appeal against an order relating to compensation under any Act
for the time being in force for the acquisition of property for public purposes shall be computed on the difference
between the amount awarded and the amount claimed by the appellant.
49.
Appeals.
- The fee payable in an appeal shall be the same as the fee that would be payable in the Court of first instance on the
subject-matter of the appeal:
Provided that, in levying fee on a memorandum of appeal against a final decree by a person whose appeal against the
preliminary decree passed by the Court of first instance or by the Court of appeal is pending, credit shall be given for the
fee paid by such person in the appeal against the preliminary decree.
Explanation (1). - Whether the appeal is against the refusal of a relief or against the grant of the relief, the fee payable in
the appeal shall be the same as the fee that would be payable on the relief in the Court of first instance.
Explanation (2). - Costs shall not be deemed to form part of the subject-matter of the appeal except where such costs
form themselves the subject-matter of the appeal or relief is claimed as regards costs on grounds additional to, or
independent of, the relief claimed regarding the main subject-matter in the suit.
Explanation (3). - In claims which include the award of interest subsequent to the institution of the suit, the interest
accrued during the pendency of the suit till the date of decree shall be deemed to be part of the subject-matter of the
appeal except where such interest is relinquished.
Explanation (4). - Where the relief prayed for in the appeal is different from the relief prayed for or refused in the Court of
first instance, the fee payable in the appeal shall be the fee that would be payable in the Court of first instance on the
relief prayed for in the appeal.
Explanation (5). - Where the market value of the subject-matter of the appeal has to be ascertained for the purpose of
computing or determining the fee payable, such market value shall be ascertained as on the date of presentation of the
plaint.
Chapter V
Page 13/37
----- PAGE 14 -----
Telangana Court-fees and Suits Valuation Act, 1956
Valuation of Suits.
50.
Suits not otherwise provided for.
(1)
If no specific provision is made in this Act or in any other law regarding the value of any suit for the purpose of
determining the jurisdiction of Courts, value for that purpose and value for the purpose of computing the fee payable
under this Act shall be the same.
(2)
In a suit where fee is payable under this Act at a fixed rate, the value for the purpose of determining the jurisdiction of
courts shall be the market value of the movable property or three-fourths of the market value of the immovable property
or where it is not possible to estimate it at a money value the amount stated in the plaint.
51.
Procedure where objection is taken on appeal or revision that a suit or appeal was not properly valued for jurisdictional
purposes.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in section 99 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act 5 of 1908), an
objection that, by reason of the over-valuation or undervaluation of a suit or appeal, a Court of first instance or lower
appellate Court, which had no jurisdiction with respect to the suit or appeal, exercised jurisdiction with respect thereto
shall not be entertained by an appellate Court, unless-
(a)
such objection was taken in the Court of first instance at or before the hearing at which issues were first framed or in the
lower appellate Court in the memorandum of appeal to that Court, or
(b)
the appellate Court is satisfied, for reasons to be recorded by it in writing, that the suit or appeal was overvalued or
under-valued and that the over-valuation or undervaluation thereof has prejudicially affected the disposal of the suit or
appeal on its merits.
(2)
Where such objection was taken in the manner mentioned in clause (a) of sub-section (1), but the appellate Court is not
satisfied as to both the matters mentioned in clause (b) of that sub-section, it shall, if it has before it the materials
necessary for the determination of the other grounds of appeal to itself, dispose of the appeal as if there had been no
defect of jurisdiction in the Court of first instance or lower appellate Court.
(3)
Where such objection was taken in that manner and the appellate Court is satisfied as to both those matters, it shall, if
those materials are not before it, proceed to deal    with the appeal or remand the suit or appeal for disposal in
accordance with the directions of the appellate Court.
(4)
The provisions of this section with respect to an appellate Court shall, so far as may be, apply to a Court exercising
revisional jurisdiction under any law for the time being in force.
Chapter VI
Probates, Letters of Administration and Certificates of Administration.
52.
Application for probate or letters of administration.
(1)
Every application for the grant of probate or letters of administration shall be accompanied by a valuation of the estate in
duplicate in the Form set forth in Part I of Schedule III.
(2)
On receipt of such application, the Court shall send a copy thereof and of the valuation to the Collector of the district in
which the estate is situated, or if the estate is situated in more than one district, to the Collector of the district in which
the portion of the estate, the aggregate value of which is the highest is situated.
53.
Levy of fee.
Page 14/37
----- PAGE 15 -----
Telangana Court-fees and Suits Valuation Act, 1956
(1)
The fee chargeable for the grant of probate or letters of administration shall be calculated at the rate or rates specified in
Article 6 of Schedule I-
(a)
where the application is made within one year of the date of death of the deceased, on the market value of the estate on
such date; or
(b)
where the application is made after the expiry of one year from such date, on the market value of the estate on the date
of application:
Provided that no fee shall be leviable under this Chapter on any property held in trust not beneficially or with general
power to confer a beneficial interest.
Explanation. - Any member of a joint Hindu family governed by the Mitakshara Law who applies for probate or letters of
administration in respect of the estate of a deceased member of the joint family shall pay a fee on the value of the share
in the joint property which the deceased would have received if a partition of the property had been made immediately
before his death.
(2)
For the purpose of the computation of fee -
(a)
the value of the items mentioned in Annexure B to Part I of Schedule III shall be deducted from the value of the estate:
Provided that, when an application is made for probate or letters of administration in respect of only part of an estate, no
debt, no expenses connected with any funeral rites or ceremonies and no mortgage encumbrance on any part of the
estate other than that in respect of which the application is made shall be deducted:
Provided further that when, after the grant of a certificate under Part X of the Indian Succession Act, 1925 (Central Act
39 of 1925), regarding any property included in an estate, a grant of probate or letters of administration is made in
respect of the same estate, the fee payable for the latter grant shall be reduced by the amount of the fee paid for the
former grant;
(b)
the power of appointment which the deceased had over any property or which was created under a will shall be taken
into account, the value being taken to be the   value of the property forming the subject-matter of the power.
54.
Grant of probate.
(1)
The grant of probate or letters of administration shall not be delayed by reason of the reference to the Collector under
sub-section (2) of section 52; but the Court shall not grant probate or letters of administration unless it is satisfied that
the fee chargeable under this Act has been paid on the basis of the net value of the estate as furnished in the valuation
accompanying the application or in the amended valuation filed under sub-section (3) of section 56.
(2)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), the Court may, without the payment of the proper fee, grant
probate or letters of administration to the Administrator-General in his official capacity on his giving an undertaking to the
satisfaction of the Court that the said fee will be paid within such time as may be fixed by the Court.
55.
Relief in cases of several grants.
(1)
Whenever a grant of probate or letters of administration has been made in respect of the whole of the property
belonging to an estate and the full fee payable under this Act in respect of the application for such grant has been paid
thereon, no fee shall be payable when a like grant is made in respect of the whole or any part of the same property
belonging to the same estate.
(2)
Whenever such grant has been made in respect of any property forming part of an estate, the amount of fee actually
paid under this Act for such grant shall be deducted when a like grant is made in respect of the property belonging to the
same estate identical with or including the property to which the former grant relates.
Page 15/37
----- PAGE 16 -----
Telangana Court-fees and Suits Valuation Act, 1956
56.
Inquiry by the Collector.
(1)
The Collector to whom a copy of the application and of the valuation has been sent under sub-section (2) of section 52,
shall examine the same and may make or cause to be made by any officer subordinate to him such inquiry, if any, as he
thinks fit as to the correctness of the valuation or where a part only of the property is situated in his district, of the
valuation of that part, and may require the Collector of any other district in which any part of the property is situated to
furnish him with the correct valuation thereof.
(2)
Any Collector required under sub-section (1) to furnish the correct valuation of any property shall comply with the
requisition after making or causing to be made by any officer subordinate to him such inquiry, if any, as he thinks fit.
(3)
If the Collector is of opinion that the applicant has under-estimated the value of the property of the deceased, he may, if
he thinks fit, require the attendance of the applicant, either in person or by his agent, and take evidence and inquire into
the matter in such manner as he may think fit, and if he is still of opinion that the value of the property has been
under-estimated, may require the applicant to amend the valuation, and, if the application for probate or letters of
administration is pending in Court, to file a copy of the amended valuation in such Court.
(4)
If, in any such case, the probate or letters of administration has or have been granted and the applicant amends the
valuation to the satisfaction of the Collector and the Collector finds that the fee payable according to the true value of the
estate has not been paid in full, he shall proceed under sub-section (4) of section 58; and if the fee paid is in excess of
that payable according to the true value of the estate, the excess fee shall be refunded to the applicant.
(5)
(a)
If the applicant does not amend the valuation to the satisfaction of the Collector, the Collector shall move the Court to
which the application for probate or letters of administration was made for holding an inquiry into the true value of the
property;
(b)
The Collector shall not move the Court under clause (a) after the expiry of six months from the date on which the
inventory required by section 317 of the Indian Succession Act, 1925 (Central Act 39 of 1925), is exhibited.
57.
Application to Court and powers of Court.
(1)
The Court shall, when moved by the Collector under sub-section (5) of section 56, hold or cause to be held by any Court
or officer subordinate to it an inquiry as to the true value at which the estate of the deceased should have been
estimated. The Collector shall be deemed to be a party to the inquiry.
(2)
For the purposes of any such inquiry the Court, or any Court or officer subordinate to it authorised by the Court to hold
the inquiry, may examine the applicant on oath either in person or by commission, and may take such further evidence
as may be produced to prove the true value of the estate, and where the inquiry has been entrusted to a subordinate
Court or officer, such Court or officer shall return to the Court the evidence taken and report the result of the inquiry and
such report and the evidence so taken shall be evidence in the proceedings.
(3)
The Court on the completion of the inquiry or on receipt of the report referred to in sub-section (2), as the case may be
shall record a finding as to the true value at which the estate should have been estimated and such finding shall be final.
(4)
The Court may make such order as to the costs of the inquiry as it thinks fit.
58.
Provision for cases where insufficient fee has been paid.
(1)
Where insufficient fee has been paid on any probate or letters of administration on account of any mistake or of want of
Page 16/37
----- PAGE 17 -----
Telangana Court-fees and Suits Valuation Act, 1956
knowledge at the time that some particular part of the estate belonged to the deceased, if any executor or administrator,
acting under such probate or letters, applies to the Collector in the Form set forth in Part II of Schedule III and pays
within six months of the discovery of the mistake or of any effects not known at the time to have belonged to the
deceased, the difference between the fee which ought to have been paid in the first instance on such probate or letters
and the fee actually paid, the Collector shall, if satisfied that insufficient fee was paid in the first instance on account of a
mistake and without any intention to defraud or to delay the payment of the proper fee, cause the probate or letters to be
duly stamped.
(2)
If, in a case falling under sub-section (1), the executor or administrator does not, within the six months referred to in that
sub-section, pay the deficit fee, he shall forfeit a sum equal to five times the deficit fee.
(3)
If, on application being made under sub-section (1), the Collector is satisfied that the application was not made within six
months of the discovery of the mistake or of further effects not included in the original valuation or that the payment of
insufficient fee in the first instance was not due to a bona fide mistake, he shall cause the probate or letters to be duly
stamped on payment of the deficit fee together with a penalty not exceeding five times such fee.
(4)
If, after the grant of probate or letters of administration of an estate, it is found by the Collector that a fee less than that
payable according to the true value of the estate has been paid, he shall cause the probate or letters to be properly
stamped on payment of the deficit fee, and if he is satisfied that the original undervaluation was not bonafide, he shall
levy in addition a penalty not exceeding five times the deficit fee.
(5)
The Board of Revenue may remit the whole or any part of the amount forfeited under sub-section (2) or of any penalty
under sub-section (3) or sub-section (4).
59.
Administrator to give proper security before letters are stamped.
- Where insufficient fee has been paid in the first instance on letters of administration, the Collector shall not cause the
same to be duly stamped in the manner aforesaid unless the administrator has given such security to the Court granting
the letters of administration as ought by law to have been given on the granting thereof in case the full value of the
estate of the deceased had then been ascertained.
60.
Relief when fee has been paid in excess.
(1)
If, at any time after the grant of the probate or letters of administration of an estate, it is discovered that fee has been
paid in excess of what was payable according to the true value of the estate, the executor or administrator, as the case
may be, may apply for a refund to the Collector to whom a copy of the valuation of the estate was sent under
sub-section (2) of section 52. The application shall be accompanied by an amended valuation in the Form set forth in
Part II of Schedule III together with the probate or letters of administration upon which a refund is sought.
(2)
If the Collector is satisfied that the amended valuation is correct, he shall-
(i)
endorse a certificate on the stamped probate or letters of administration to the effect that so much of the fee represented
by the stamp or stamps used has been refunded; and
(ii)
refund the difference between the fee originally paid and that which should have been paid:
Provided that no refund shall be granted under this section unless the application for refund is made within three years
of the date of the grant of the probate or letters of administration or within such further period as the Collector may allow:
Provided further that if, by reason of any legal proceedings, the debts due from the deceased have not been ascertained
and paid or his effects have not been recovered and made available and in consequence thereof the executor or
administrator is prevented from claiming the return of such difference within the said period of three years, the Collector
may allow such further time for making the claim as may appear to him to be reasonable under the circumstances.
(3)
Page 17/37
----- PAGE 18 -----
Telangana Court-fees and Suits Valuation Act, 1956
If the Collector refuses to grant a refund, the executor or administrator, as the case may be, may apply to the Board of
Revenue for an order of refund. An application for such refund shall be accompanied by an amended valuation in the
Form set forth in Part II of Schedule III.
61.
Recovery of penalties, etc.
- Any fee found to be payable by an applicant for probate or letters of administration or by an executor or administrator,
or any costs under sub-section (4) of section 57 or any penalty or forfeiture payable by any such executor or
administrator may, on the certificate of the Board of Revenue, be recovered from the executor or administrator as if it
were an arrear of land revenue.
62.
Powers of Board of Revenue.
- The powers and duties of the Collector under this Chapter shall be subject to the control of the Board of Revenue.
Chapter VII
Refunds and Remissions.
63.
Refund in cases of rejection of plaint, etc., for delay.
(1)
Where a plaint or memorandum of appeal is rejected on the ground of delay in its re-presentation or where the fee paid
on a plaint or memorandum of appeal is insufficient and the deficit fee is not paid within the time allowed by the Court, or
the delay in payment of the deficit fee is not condoned and the plaint or memorandum of appeal is consequently
rejected, the Court may, in its discretion direct the refund to the plaintiff or the appellant, of the fee, either in whole or in
part, paid on the plaint or memorandum of appeal which was rejected.
(2)
Where a memorandum of appeal is rejected on the ground that it was not presented within the time allowed by the law
of limitation, one-half of the fee shall be refunded.
64.
Refund in cases of remand.
(1)
Where a plaint or memorandum of appeal rejected by the lower court is ordered to be received, or where a suit is
remanded in appeal for a fresh decision by the lower Court, the Court making the order or remanding the appeal may
direct the refund to the appellant of the full amount of fee paid on the memorandum of appeal; and, if the remand is on
second appeal, also on the memorandum of appeal in the first appellate Court, and, if the remand is in Letters Patent
Appeal, also on the memorandum of second appeal and memorandum of appeal in the first appellate Court.
(2)
Where an appeal is remanded in Second Appeal or Letters Patent Appeal for a fresh decision by the lower appellate
Court, the High Court remanding the appeal may direct the refund to the appellant of the full amount of fee paid on the
memorandum of Second Appeal if the remand is in Second Appeal, and of the full amount of fee paid on the
memorandum of Second Appeal and the Memorandum of Letters Patent Appeal if the remand is in Letters Patent
Appeal:
Provided that no refund shall be ordered if the remand was due to the fault of the party who would otherwise be entitled
to a refund:
Provided further that, if the order of remand does not cover the whole of the subject-matter of the suit, the refund shall
not extend to more than so much fee as would have been originally payable on that part of the subject-matter in respect
whereof the suit has been remanded.
65.
Refund in cases of review.
- Where an application for a review of judgment is admitted on the ground of some mistake or error apparent on the face
of the record and on rehearing, the Court reverses or modifies its former decision on that ground, it shall direct refund to
the applicant of so much of the fee paid on the application as exceeds the fee payable on any other application to such
Court under Article 11 (g) and (u) of Schedule II.
66.
Page 18/37
----- PAGE 19 -----
Telangana Court-fees and Suits Valuation Act, 1956
Refund of fee paid by mistake or inadvertence.
- The fee paid by mistake or inadvertence shall be ordered to be refunded.
66A.
[ Refund of fee.
[Inserted with marginal heading by Act No.22 of 2005.]
- Where the Court refers the parties to the suit to any one of the mode of settlement of dispute referred to in section 89
of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Central Act No.5 of 1908), the plaintiff shall be entitled to a certificate from the
Court authorizing him to receive back from the Collector, the full amount of the fee paid in respect of such plaint.]
67.
Exemption of certain documents.
- Nothing contained in this Act shall render the following documents chargeable with any fee:-
(i)
memorandum of appearance filed by advocates or pleaders when appearing for persons proceeded against in criminal
cases;
(ii)
application or petition to a Collector or other officer making a settlement of land revenue, or to the Board of Revenue
relating to matters connected with the assessment of land, or with the ascertainment of rights thereto or interest therein,
if presented previous to the final confirmation of such settlement;
(iii)
application for supply of water belonging to Government for irrigation;
(iv)
application for leave to extend cultivation or to relinquish land, when presented to an officer of land revenue by a person
holding, under a direct engagement with Government, land of which revenue is settled but not permanently;
(v)
application for service of notice of relinquishment of land or of enhancement of rent;
(vi)
written authority to an agent to distrain;
(vii)
first application (other than a petition containing a criminal charge or information) for the summons of a witness or other
person to give evidence or to produce a document or for the production or filing of an exhibit not being an affidavit made
for the immediate purpose of being produced in Court;
(viii)
bail bonds in criminal cases other than bail bonds in village courts, recognizances to prosecute or give evidence and
recognizances for personal appearance or otherwise;
(ix)
petition, application, charge or information respecting any offence when presented, made or laid to or before a police
officer, or to or before the heads of villages or the village police;
(x)
petition by a prisoner or other person in duress or under restraint of any Court or its officer;
(xi)
complaint of a public servant as defined in the Indian Penal Code (Central Act 45 of 1860) or an officer of the State
Railway relating to matters arising out of, or in connexion with, the discharge of his official duty;
(xii)
application for the payment of money due by the Government to the applicant, other than an application for refund of
lapsed deposit made six months after the date on which the amount lapsed to the Government;
(xiii)
petition of appeal against any municipal tax;
(xiv)
application for compensation under any law for the time being in force relating to the acquisition of property for public
purposes;
(xv)
Page 19/37
----- PAGE 20 -----
Telangana Court-fees and Suits Valuation Act, 1956
petition or appeal by a Government servant or a servant of the Court of Wards when presented to any superior officer or
Government against orders of dismissal, reduction or suspension; copies of such orders filed with such appeals, and
applications for obtaining such copies;
(xvi)
[ Plaints, memorandum of appeal, all types of petitions and applications, memorandum of appearance and
vakalatnamas filed by the State Government or its lawyers before any court, tribunal or other authority.]
[Added by Act No.20 of 1992.]
68.
Power to reduce or remit fees.
- The State Government may, by notification in the [Telangana]
[Substituted for the words 'Andhra Pradesh' by G.O.Ms.No.45, Law (F) Department, dated 01.06.2016.]
Gazette, reduce or remit, in the whole or in any part of the territory of this State, all or any of the fees chargeable under
this Act, and may, in like manner, cancel or vary such notification.
Chapter VIII
Miscellaneous.
69.
Collection of fees by stamps.
- All fees chargeable under this Act shall be collected in stamps.
70.
Stamps to be impressed or adhesive.
- The stamps used to denote any fee chargeable under this Act shall be impressed or adhesive or partly impressed and
partly adhesive, as the State Government may, by notification in the [Telangana]
[Substituted for the words 'Andhra Pradesh' by G.O.Ms.No.45, Law (F) Department, dated 01.06.2016.]
Gazette, from time to time, direct.
71.
Amended document.
- Where any document which ought to bear a stamp under this Act is amended merely for correcting a mistake and
making it conform to the original intention of the parties, it shall not be necessary to impose a fresh stamp.
72.
Cancellation of stamps.
(1)
No document requiring a stamp under this Act shall be filed or acted upon in any proceeding in any Court or office until
the stamp has been cancelled.
(2)
The officer appointed from time to time by the Court or the head of the office shall, on receiving any such document
effect forthwith such cancellation by punching out the figure head so as to leave the amount designated on the stamp
untouched, and the part removed by punching shall be destroyed.
73.
Deduction to be made.
- Where allowance is made in this Act for damaged or spoiled stamps, or where fee already paid is directed to be
refunded to any person by an order of Court, the Collector may, on the application of the person concerned, pay to him
the amount of fee or where damaged or spoiled stamps are produced, he may, after satisfying himself about their
genuineness, give in lieu thereof the same amount or value in stamps of the same or any other description, or if the
applicant so desires, the same amount or value in money provided that in all cases where money is paid in cash, a
deduction shall be made of [six naye paise for each rupee or fraction thereof]
[Substituted for the words 'one anna for each rupee or fraction thereof' by section 2 of the Andhra Pradesh Court-fees
and Suits Valuation (Second Amendment) Act, 1958 (Andhra Pradesh Act XVII of 1958).]
. No such deduction shall, however, be made where refund is claimed in respect of any fee paid in pursuance of an
order of Court which has been varied or reversed in appeal.
74.
Penalty.
Page 20/37
----- PAGE 21 -----
Telangana Court-fees and Suits Valuation Act, 1956
- Any person appointed to sell stamps, who disobeys any rule made under this Act, and any person, not so appointed,
who sells or offers for sale any stamps, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to six
months, or with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees, or with both.
75.
Power of High Court to make rules.
(1)
The High Court may make rules to provide for or regulate all or any of the following matters, namely:-
(a)
the fees chargeable for serving and executing processes issued by the High Court in its appellate jurisdiction and by the
Civil and Criminal Courts subordinate thereto;
(b)
the remuneration of persons employed by the courts mentioned in clause (a) in the service or execution of processes;
(c)
the fixing by District and Sessions Judges and District Magistrates of the number of process servers necessary to be
employed for the service and execution of processes issued from their respective Courts and the Courts subordinate
thereto;
(d)
the display in each Court of a table in English and in the local language or languages showing the fees payable for the
service and execution of processes.
(2)
All rules made under sub-section (1) shall be subject to confirmation by the State Government with or without
modification and on such confirmation they shall be published in the [Telangana]
[Substituted for the words 'Andhra Pradesh' by G.O.Ms.No.45, Law (F) Department, dated 01.06.2016.]
Gazette and shall thereupon have effect as if enacted in this Act.
76.
Power of Board of Revenue to make rules.
(1)
The Board of Revenue may, with the previous sanction of the State Government, make rules consistent with this Act to
provide for or regulate all or any of the following matters, namely:-
(a)
the fees chargeable for serving and executing processes issued by the Board of Revenue and by the Revenue courts;
(b)
the remuneration of persons employed for the service and execution of such processes;
(c)
the fixing by Collectors of the number of persons necessary to be employed for the service and execution of such
processes;
(d)
the guidance of Collectors in the exercise of their powers under Chapter VI;
(e)
the supply of stamps to be used under this Act;
(f)
the number of stamps to be used for denoting any fee chargeable under this Act;
(g)
the keeping of accounts of all stamps used under this Act;
(h)
the circumstances in which stamps may be held to be damaged or spoiled;
(i)
the circumstances in which, the manner in which, and the authorities by which, allowance for used, damaged or spoiled
stamps may be made;
(j)
the regulation of the sale of stamps to be used under this Act, the persons by whom alone such stamps may be sold and
Page 21/37
----- PAGE 22 -----
Telangana Court-fees and Suits Valuation Act, 1956
the duties and remuneration of such persons:
Provided that, in the case of stamps used in the High Court, such rules shall be made with the concurrence of the Chief
Justice.
(2)
All rules made under this section shall be published in the [Telangana]
[Substituted for the words 'Andhra Pradesh' by G.O.Ms.No.45, Law (F) Department, dated 01.06.2016.]
Gazette and on such publication, shall have effect as if enacted in this Act.
77.
Power of Government to make rules.
(1)
The State Government may, by notification in the [Telangana]
[Substituted for the words 'Andhra Pradesh' by G.O.Ms.No.45, Law (F) Department, dated 01.06.2016.]
Gazette, make rules to carry out generally the purposes of this Act.
(2)
All notifications and rules made under this section shall, as soon as may be, after they are made, be placed on the table
of the Legislature for fifteen days, and shall be subject to such modification, whether by way of repeal or amendment, as
the Legislature may make during the session in which they are so laid.
78.
Continuance in force of existing rules.
- Until rules are framed under sections 75, 76 and 77 and until notifications are issued under section 68, the rules and
notifications now in force in respect of matters referred to in those sections, shall, in so far as they are not inconsistent
with this Act, continue in force.
79.
Repeal and saving.
(1)
The Court-fees Act, 1870 (Central Act 7 of 1870), in its application to the State of Andhra and in relation to the fees and
stamps other than fees and stamps relating to documents presented or to be presented before an officer serving under
the Central Government and the Suits Valuation Act, 1887 (Central Act 7 of 1887), in its application to the State of
Andhra are hereby repealed.
(2)
All suits and proceedings instituted before the commencement of this Act and all proceedings by way of appeal, revision
or otherwise arising therefrom, whether instituted before or after such commencement, shall, notwithstanding the repeal
of the Court-fees Act, 1870 (Central Act 7 of 1870), and the Suits Valuation Act, 1887 (Central Act 7 of 1887), be
governed by the provisions of the said Acts and the rules made thereunder.
I.
(See section 19.)
Ad Valorem Fees.
Article.
Particulars.
Proper fee.
(1)
(2)
(3)
[1(a)
[Substituted for the original clauses (a) and (b) and the entries relating thereto, by section 3 (i) of the Andhra Pradesh
Court-fees and Suits Valuation (Second Amendment) Act, 1958 (Andhra Pradesh Act XVII of 1958).]
Plaint or written statement pleading a set-off
or counter-claim in any suit of the nature cognizable by Courts
of Small Causes, when the amount or value of the subject-matter
does not exceed five hundred rupees if the suit is actually
filed and tried as a small cause suit-
Page 22/37
----- PAGE 23 -----
Telangana Court-fees and Suits Valuation Act, 1956
When the amount or value of the subject-matter
in dispute:-
(i) does not exceed one hundred rupees, for
every five rupees or part thereof.
Forty naye paise.
(ii) exceeds one hundred rupees, but does not
exceed five hundred rupees, for every ten rupees or part thereof
in excess of one hundred rupees.
Eighty naye paise
(b)
Plaint or written statement pleading a set-off
or counter-claim in any suit of the nature cognizable by Courts
of Small Causes, when the amount or value of the subject-matter
exceeds five hundred rupees but does not exceed one thousand
rupees-
When the amount or value of the subject-matter
in dispute-
(i) does not exceed one hundred rupees, for
every five rupees or part thereof
Sixty naye paise.
(ii) exceeds one hundred rupees, but does not
exceed one thousand rupees, for every ten rupees or part thereof
in excess of one hundred rupees.]
One rupee and ten naye paise.
(c)
Plaint or written statement pleading a set-off
or counter-claim or memorandum of appeal presented to any Court-
When the amount or value of the subject-matter
in dispute-
(i) [ does not exceed one hundred rupees, for
every five rupees or part thereof.
[Substituted for original items (i), (ii) and (iii) and the entries against them, by section 3 (ii) of the Andhra Pradesh
Court-fees and Suits Valuation (Second Amendment) Act, 1958 Andhra Pradesh XVII of 1958).]
Sixty naye paise.
(ii) exceeds one hundred rupees, but does not
exceed one thousand rupees, for every ten rupees or part thereof
in excess of one hundred rupees.
One rupee and ten naye paise.
(iii) exceeds one thousand rupees, but does not
exceed ten thousand rupees, for every one hundred rupees or part
thereof, in excess of one thousand rupees.
Seven rupees and fifty naye paise.]
(iv) exceeds ten thousand rupees, but does not
exceed twenty thousand rupees, for every five hundred rupees or
part thereof, in excess of ten thousand rupees.
Thirty rupees.
(v) exceeds twenty thousand rupees, but does
not exceed thirty thousand rupees for every one thousand rupees
or part thereof, in excess of twenty thousand rupees.
Forty rupees.
(vi) exceeds thirty thousand rupees, but does
Page 23/37
----- PAGE 24 -----
Telangana Court-fees and Suits Valuation Act, 1956
not exceed fifty thousand rupees, for every two thousand rupees
or part thereof, in excess of thirty thousand rupees.
Sixty rupees.
(vii) exceeds fifty thousand rupees, but does
not exceed one lakh rupees, for every four thousand rupees or
part thereof, in excess of fifty thousand rupees.
Eighty rupees.
(viii) exceeds one lakh rupees, for every ten
thousand rupees or part thereof, in excess of one lakh rupees.
One hundred rupees.
2 (a)
Application under section 26 of the Provincial
Insolvency Act, 1920, or under section 95 of the Code of Civil
Procedure, 1908.
Five rupees.
(b)
Appeal against order on an application falling
under clause (a).
Five rupees.
3(a)
Petition under section 53 or 54 of the
Provincial Insolvency Act, 1920.
Five rupees.
(b)
Appeal against order on a petition falling
under clause (a), whether by the Official Receiver or by the
unsuccessful party.
Five rupees.
4
Memorandum of appeal against order in
proceedings under the Indian Succession Act, 1925.
An amount of one-half the scale of fee specified in article 1 on
the amount or value of the subject-matter.
5
Application for review of judgment.
One-half of the fee payable on the plaint or memorandum of
appeal comprising the relief sought in the application for
review.
6
Probate of a will or letters of administration
with or without will annexed-
When the amount or value of the estate in
respect of which the grant of probate or letters is made exceeds
one thousand rupees, but does not exceed five thousand rupees.
Two per centum on such amount or value.
When such amount or value exceeds five thousand
rupees, but does not exceed fifty thousand rupees.
Three per centum on such amount or value.
When such amount or value exceeds fifty
thousand rupees, but does not exceed one lakh rupees.
Four per centum on such amount or value.
Page 24/37
----- PAGE 25 -----
Telangana Court-fees and Suits Valuation Act, 1956
When such amount or value exceeds one lakh
rupees.
Five per centum on such amount or value.
7
Certificate under the Indian Succession Act,
1925-
Where the amount or value of the debt or
security or the aggregate amount or value of the debts and
securities specified in the certificate-
(i) does not exceed five thousand rupees.
Two per centum on such amount or value.
(ii) exceeds five thousand rupees, but does not
exceed twenty-five thousand rupees.
Three per centum on such amount or value.
(iii) exceeds twenty-five thousand rupees, but
does not exceed fifty thousand rupees.
Four per centum on such amount or value.
(iv) exceeds fifty thousand rupees, but does
not exceed one lakh rupees.
Five per centum on such amount or value.
(v) exceeds one lakh rupees..
Six per centum on such amount or value.
Explanation I. - Where a certificate is extended under section 376 of the Indian Succession Act, 1925, fee shall be
computed on the amount for which certificate is sought to be extended and the amount for which a certificate or
certificates has or have already been issued at one and a half times the rates specified above, credit being given for the
fee already paid.
Explanation II. - The amount of a debt includes interest on the day on which the inclusion of the debt in the certificate is
applied for so far as such amount can be ascertained.
Explanation III. - (a) Where any power with respect to a security specified in a certificate for the receiving of interest or
dividends on, or for the negotiation or transfer of, the security, or for both purposes, is conferred.
(b)
Whether no such power is conferred in either of the cases mentioned above, the value of the security is its market value
on the day on which the inclusion of the security in the certificate is applied for, so far as such value can be ascertained.
II
(See section 19)
Article.
Particulars.
Proper fee.
(1)
(2)
(3)
1
(i) Petition in a suit under the Converts
Marriage Dissolution Act, 1866.
Ten rupees.
(ii) Petition, plaint or memorandum of appeal
when presented to a Court under the Dissolution of Muslim
Marriages Act, 1939.
Ten rupees.
(iii) Petition under the Indian Divorce Act
excluding petitions under section 44 of that Act, and every
Page 25/37
----- PAGE 26 -----
Telangana Court-fees and Suits Valuation Act, 1956
memorandum of appeal under section 55 of that Act.
Thirty rupees.
(iv) Plaint or memorandum of appeal under the
Parsi Marriage and Divorce Act, 1936, or a counter claim made
under section 37 of that Act.
Thirty rupees.
(v) Plaint or memorandum of appeal in a suit
under the Indian Colonial Divorce Jurisdiction Act, 1926.
Fifty rupees.
(vi) Petition or memorandum of appeal under the
Special Marriage Act, 1954.
Thirty rupees.
(vii) Petition or memorandum of appeal under
the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955.
Ten rupees.
Explanation.- If, in a suit falling
under any of these clauses, there is a specific claim for
damages, separate fee at the rates specified in article 1 of
Schedule I shall be charged on the amount of damages claimed.
2
Undertaking under section 49 of the Indian
Divorce Act, 1869.
One rupee.
3
Memorandum, of appeal from an order inclusive
of an order determining any question under section 47 or section
144 of the Code of Civil procedure, 1908, and not otherwise
provided for when presented -
(i) to any Court other than the High Court or
to any Executive Officer other than the Board of Revenue or
Chief Executive Authority.
Three rupees.
(ii) to the Board of Revenue or Chief Executive
Authority.
Five rupees.
(iii) to the High Court-
(A) From an order other than an order under[the Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) Agriculturist's Relief Act,
1938]
[Substituted for the original short title by the First Schedule to the Andhra Pradesh Laws (Amendment of Short Titles)
Act, 1961 (Andhra Pradesh Act IX of 1961).]
-
(1) Where the order was passed by a Subordinate
Court or other authority-
(a) If the order relates to a suit or
proceeding, the value of which exceeds one thousand rupees.
Ten rupees.
(b) In any other case.
Five rupees.
(2) Where the appeal is under clause 15 of the
Letters Patent-
(a) From an order passed in exercise of
Page 26/37
----- PAGE 27 -----
Telangana Court-fees and Suits Valuation Act, 1956
appellate jurisdiction.
Ten rupees.
(b) In any other case.
One hundred rupees.
(3) Where the appeal is under section 45-B of
the Banking Companies Act, 1949.
One hundred rupees.
(B) From an order under[the Andhra Pradesh
(Andhra Area) Agriculturist's Relief Act, 1938.]
[Substituted for the original short title by the First Schedule to the Andhra Pradesh Laws (Amendment of Short Titles)
Act, 1961 (Andhra Pradesh Act IX of 1961).]
Two rupees.
(iv) to the Government in pursuance of a
statutory right to appeal for which no court-fee is leviable
under any enactment.
Five rupees.
[4
[Article 4 substituted by Act No.40 of 2006.]
Memorandum of appeal under Arbitration and
Conciliation Act, 1996.
(1) Appeal against order on application under
section 9.
Two hundred and fifty rupees.
(2) Appeal against order on application under
section 34,-
(a) Where the value of the subject matter does not exceed
Rs.1,00,000/-.
Three hundred rupees.
(b) Where the value exceeds Rs.1,00,000/- but does not exceed
Rs.5,00,000/-.
Six hundred rupees.
(c) Where the value exceeds Rs.5,00,000/- but does not exceed
Rs.1,00,00,000/-.
One thousand and five hundred rupees.
(d) Where the value exceeds Rs.1,00,00,000/-.
Two thousand and five hundred rupees.
(3) Appeal under section 50 against the order
refusing to refer the parties to arbitration under sections 45
or to refuse to enforce a foreign award under section 48.
Five hundred rupees.
(4) Appeal under section 59 against the order
refusing to refer the parties to arbitration under section 54 or
refusing to enforce a foreign award under sub-section (2) of
section 57.
Five hundred rupees.
(5) Any other appeal under the Arbitration and
Conciliation Act, 1996.
Two hundred and fifty rupees.]
5
Copy or translation of a judgment or order not
being a decree or having the force of a decree-
Page 27/37
----- PAGE 28 -----
Telangana Court-fees and Suits Valuation Act, 1956
When such judgment or order is passed by any
Civil Court other than the High Court or by the Presiding
Officer of any Revenue Court or Office or by any other Court or
judicial or executive authority.
One rupee.
When such judgment or order is passed by the
High Court.
Two rupees.
6
Copy or translation of a judgment or order of a
Criminal Court.
One rupee.
7
Copy of a decree or order having the force of a
decree-
When such decree or order is made by any Court
other than the High Court-
(a) if the amount or value of the subject-matter of the suit
wherein such decree or order is made is fifty or less than fifty
rupees;
One rupee.
(ii) if such amount or value exceeds fifty rupees;
Two rupees.
When such decree or order is made by the High
Court.
Five rupees
8
Copy of any document liable to stamp duty under
the Indian Stamp Act, 1899, when substituted by any party to a
suit or proceeding in place of the original withdrawn-
(a) When the stamp duty chargeable on the original does not
exceed[fifty naye paise;]
[Substituted for the words 'eight annas' by section 4 (i) of the Andhra Pradesh Court-fees and Suits Valuation (Second
Amendment) Act, 1958 (Andhra Pradesh Act XVII of 1958).]
The amount of the duty chargeable on the original.
(b) in any other case.
One rupee.
9
Copy of any revenue or judicial proceeding or
order not otherwise provided for by this Act or copy of any
account, statement, report, or the like taken out of any Court
or Office of any public officer-
For every three hundred and sixty words or
fraction of three hundred and sixty words.
One rupee.
10
(a) Application or petition presented to any
officer of land revenue by any person holding temporarily
settled land under direct engagement with Government and when
the subject-matter of the application or petition relates
exclusively to such engagement.
Page 28/37
----- PAGE 29 -----
Telangana Court-fees and Suits Valuation Act, 1956
One rupee.
(b) Application or petition presented to any
officer of land revenue relating to the grant of land on dark
hast.
One rupee.
(c) Application to a Collector for lease of
land for agricultural or nonagricultural purposes.
One rupee.
(d) Application or petition presented to any
Executive Officer under any Act for the time being in force for
the conservancy or improvement of any place if the application
or petition relates solely to such conservancy or improvement.
One rupee.
(e) Application or petition presented to any
board or Executive Officer for a copy or translation of any
order passed by such board or Officer or of any other document
on record in such office.
One rupee.
(f) Application to a Forest Officer by a forest
contractor for extension of the period of lease-
(i) if the value of the subject-matter of the lease is Rs.5,000
or less;
Five rupees.
(ii) if such value exceeds Rs.5,000, for every Rs.1,000 or part
thereof, in excess of Rs. 5,000.
One rupee.
(g) Application for attestation of private
documents intended to be used outside India.
[Fifty rupees.]
[Substituted by Act No.20 of 2001.]
(h) Application for lapsed deposit presented
after six months after the date on which the amount lapsed to
the Government.
(i) when the amount or deposit does not exceed Rs.1,000;
One rupee.
(ii) when it exceeds Rs.1,000.
Two rupees.
(i) Application or petition presented to the
Government and not otherwise provided for-
(i) which involves the exercise or non-exercise of power
conferred by law or rule having the force of law;
Two rupees.
(ii) in other cases.
One rupee.
(j) Application or petition presented to the
Board of Revenue or Chief Executive Authority and not otherwise
provided for-
(i) which involves the exercise or non-exercise of power
conferred by law or rule having the force of law;
Two rupees.
(ii) in other cases.
Page 29/37
----- PAGE 30 -----
Telangana Court-fees and Suits Valuation Act, 1956
One rupee.
(k) Application or petition not falling under
clause (i) or (j) and presented to a public officer or in a
public office and not otherwise provided for.
One rupee.
11
(a) [ Application or petition presented to any
Court for a copy or translation of any judgment, decree or any
proceeding of, or order passed by, such Court or of any other
document on record in such Court.
[Substituted for the original clauses (a) and (b) and the entries relating thereto, by section 4 of the Andhra Pradesh
Court-fees and Suits Valuation (Second Amendment) Act, 1958 (Andhra Pradesh Act XVII of 1958).]
[Fifty]
[Substituted by Act No.25 of 1984 w.e.f.19.07.1984.]
paise.
(b) Application or petition presented to any
Civil Court other than a Principal Civil Court of Original
Jurisdiction or to any Court of Small Causes constituted under
the Provincial Small Cause Courts Act, 1887, or to a Collector
or other officer of revenue in relation to any suit or case in
which the amount or value of the subject-matter is less than Rs.
50]
Twenty-five naye paise.
(c) Application to any Court that records may
be called from another Court, when the Court grants the
application and is of opinion that the transmission of such
records involves the use of the post.
One rupee in addition to the fee leviable on the application.
(d) Application for permission to deposit
revenue or rent either in the office of the Collector or in the
Court.
One rupee.
(e) Application or petition presented to a
Court for determination of the amount of compensation to be paid
by a landlord to his tenant.
One rupee.
(f) A written complaint or charge of any
offence other than an offence for which a Police officer, may,
under the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898, arrest without
warrant and presented to any Criminal Court and an oral
complaint of any such offence reduced to writing under the Code
of Criminal Procedure, 1898.
Two rupees.
(g) Application or petition presented to any
Court, or to any Magistrate in his executive capacity and not
otherwise provided for in this Act.
One rupee.
(h) Application for arrest or attachment before
judgment or for temporary injunction-
(i) when presented to a Civil Court or Revenue Court other than
the High Court in relation to any suit or proceeding-
Page 30/37
----- PAGE 31 -----
Telangana Court-fees and Suits Valuation Act, 1956
(1) if the value of the subject-matter is less than Rs.50;
One rupee.
(2) if the value is Rs.50 and above;
Two rupees.
(ii) when presented to the High Court.
Five rupees.
(i) Application or petition under section 47
and Order XXI, rules 58 and 90 of the Code of Civil Procedure,
1908-
(i) when filed in a Revenue Court or a District Munsif's Court;
One rupee.
(ii) when filed in a Subordinate Judge's Court or a District
Court;
Two rupees.
(iii) when filed in the High Court.
Five rupees.
(j) Application or petition under sections 34,
72, 73 and 74 of the Indian Trusts Act, 1882.
Five rupees.
(k) (i) Application for probate or letters of
administration to have effect throughout India.
Twenty-five rupees.
(ii) Application for probate or letters of administration not
falling under clause (i)-
(1) if the value of the estate does not exceed Rs.1,000;
One rupee.
(2) if the value exceeds Rs.1,000;
Five rupees:
Provided that if a caveat is entered and the
application is registered as a suit, one-half the scale of fee
specified in Article I of Schedule I on the market value of the
estate less the fee already paid on the application shall be
levied.
(l) Original petitions not otherwise provided
for when filed in-
(i) a District Munsif's Court-
(1) under[the Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) Village Courts
Act, 1888]
[Substituted for the original short title by the First Schedule to the Andhra Pradesh Laws (Amendment of Short Titles)
Act, 1961 (Andhra Pradesh Act IX of 1961).]
;
One rupee.
(2) in other cases.
Three rupees.
(ii) a Subordinate Judge's Court or a District Court;
Five rupees.
(iii) the High Court
Twenty rupees.
(m) [ Application to set aside an Award under
section 34 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996,-
[Article 11 (m) & (n) substituted by Act No.40 of 2006.]
Page 31/37
----- PAGE 32 -----
Telangana Court-fees and Suits Valuation Act, 1956
(a) Where the value of the subject matter does not exceed
Rs.1,00,000/-.
Two hundred rupees
(b) Where the value exceeds Rs.1,00,000/- but does not exceed
Rs.5,00,000/-.
Five hundred rupees.
(c) Where the value exceeds Rs.5,00,000/- but does not exceed
Rs.1,00,00,000/-.
One thousand rupees.
(d) Where the value exceeds Rs.1,00,00,000/-
Two thousand rupees.
(n)(a) application under sub-section (2) of
section 14 or section 27 or subsection (2) of section 39 or
subsection (3) of section 43 of the Arbitration and Conciliation
Act, 1996;
Two hundred rupees.
(b) Application under section 9 other than in a pending
proceedings under the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996;
Two hundred and fifty rupees.
(c) Any other application;
One hundred rupees.]
(o) Petition to the High Court for the
admission of an Advocate, Attorney or Vakil.
Twenty rupees.
(p) Application presented to the High Court
under section 24 of the Press (Objectionable Matter) Act, 1951.
Fifty rupees.
(q) Revision petition presented to the High
Court under section 115 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, or
under section 25 of the Provincial Small Cause Courts Act, 1887,
or under the provisions of any other Act, arising out of a suit
or proceeding-
(i) if the value of the suit or proceeding to which the order
sought to be revised relates does not exceed Rs.1,000;
Five rupees.
(ii) if such value exceeds Rs.1,000.
Ten rupees.
(r) Petition under sections 153, 166 and 221 of[the Indian Companies Act, 1913]
[See now the Companies Act, 1956 (Central Act I of 1956.) Repealed by Companies Act, 2013 (Act No.18 of 2013).]
, in connection with the
winding up of a company.
Two hundred rupees.
(s) Petition to the High Court under Article
226 of the Constitution for a writ other than the writ of Habeas
Corpus or a petition under Article 227 of the Constitution.
One hundred rupees.
(t) Application under section 45 of the
Specific Relief Act, 1877.
One hundred rupees.
(u) Application or petition presented to the
High Court and not otherwise specifically provided for.
Page 32/37
----- PAGE 33 -----
Telangana Court-fees and Suits Valuation Act, 1956
Two rupees.
(v) Election petition questioning the election
of a person in respect of-
(i) the office of member of a panchayat;
Twenty-five rupees.
(ii) the office of president of panchayat;
Fifty rupees.
(iii) the office of member of a municipal council or a district
board;
One hundred rupees.
(iv) the office of chairman of a municipality or president of
district board.
Two hundred rupees.
(w) Application under section 145 of[the
Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898]
[See now the provisions under the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Act 2 of 1974).]
.
Five rupees.
12
Application for leave to sue as a pauper.
One rupee.
13
Application for leave to appeal as a pauper-
(i) when presented to a District Court or a Subordinate Judge's
Court
One rupee.
(ii) when presented to the High Court
Two rupees.
14
(i) Bail bond or other instrument of obligation
when filed in village courts.
One rupee.
(ii) Bail bond or other instrument of
obligation given in pursuance of an order made by a court or
magistrate under any section of the Code of Criminal Procedure,
1898, or the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, and not otherwise
provided for in this Act.
One rupee.
15
Every copy of power-of-attorney when filed in
any suit or proceeding.
One rupee.
16
Mukhtarnama, Vakalatnama or any paper signed by
an advocate signifying or intimating that he is retained for a
party-
when presented-
(i) to any Court other than the High court or to any Collector
or Magistrate or other executive officer;
Two rupees.
(ii) to the Board of Revenue or a Chief Executive Authority;
Page 33/37
----- PAGE 34 -----
Telangana Court-fees and Suits Valuation Act, 1956
Three rupees.
(iii) to the High Court; Five rupees.
(iv) to the Government. Five rupees.
17
Agreement in writing stating a question for the
opinion of the Court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908-
(i) when presented to a District Munsif's Court.
Fifteen rupees.
(ii) in any other case.
One hundred rupees.
18
Caveat
Ten rupees.
III.
Part I ? .
(See sections 52 and 53)
Form of Valuation (to be used with such modifications, if any, as may be necessary) of Estate.
In The Court of......................
Re: Probate of The Will of ...........................or Administration of The Estate of ............................, Deceased.
1. I (A.B.) ....................................., solemnly affirm/make oath and say that I am the executor (or one of the executors or
one of the next-of-kin) ................................of deceased, and that I have truly set forth in Annexure A to this Form of
Valuation all the estate of which the above named deceased died possessed or to which he was entitled at the time of
his death, and which has come or is likely to come, to my hands.
2. I further say that I have also truly set forth in Annexure B to this Form of Valuation all the items which I am by law
allowed to deduct.
Eckovation -
3. I further declare that the said estate exclusive only of the last
was on the date of the death of the said deceased
mentioned items ......................................under
[is]
[This Form to be used where the application is made after one year from the date of death.]
the value of
4. I (A.B.) ....................................further declare that what is stated in this Form of Valuation is true to the best of my
information and belief.
(signed)
A.B. .....................
III-contd.
Part I ? contd.
Annexure A.
Valuation of the movable and immovable property of deceased.
[Rs. nP.]
[Substituted for the group of letters 'Rs. A.P.' by section 5 of the Andhra Pradesh Court-fees and Suits Valuation
(Second Amendment) Act, 1958 (Andhra Pradesh Act XVII of 1958).]
Cash in hand and at the bank, household goods, wearing apparel, books, plate, jewels and the like.
(State estimated value according to best of Executors or Administrators belief.)
Property in Government securities transferable at the Public Debt Office.
(State description and value on the date of the death of the deceased or on the date of the application, as the case may
be).
Immovable property, consisting of .. .. ..
(State description and market value on the date of the death of the deceased or on the date of the application, as the
case may be).
Page 34/37
----- PAGE 35 -----
Telangana Court-fees and Suits Valuation Act, 1956
Leasehold property .. .. .. .. ..
(If the deceased held any leases for years determinable, state the period of the lease and the estimated amount of rent
inserting separately arrears due on the date of the death or on the date of the application as the case may be).
Property in public companies .. .. .. ..
(State the particulars and the value calculated at the price on the date of the death or on the date of the application, as
the case may be).
Policies of insurance upon life, money out on mortgages and other securities, such as bonds, bills, notes and other
securities for money.
(State the amount of the whole on the date of the death or on the date of the application as the case may be).
Debts .. .. .. .. ..
(other than bad debts).
Stock in trade .. .. .. .. ..
(State the estimated value, if any).
------------------- ---------
Other property not comprised under the foregoing heads
Total
(State the estimated value, if any).
------------------- ---------
Deduct items shown in Annexure B in the manner provided in sub-section (2) of section 53 .. .. .. ..
-----------------
Net value of the Estate                            --------
III-contd.
Part I ? contd.
Annexure B.
Of Debts, Etc.
[Rs. nP.]
[Substituted for the group of letters 'Rs. A.P.' by section 5 of the Andhra Pradesh Court-fees and Suits Valuation
(Second Amendment) Act, 1958 (Andhra Pradesh Act XVII of 1958).]
Amount of debts due and owing from the deceased, legally payable out of the estate
..       ..       ..       ..       ..       ..       ..       ..
Amount of expenses connected with funeral rites and ceremonies ..       ..       ..
Amount of mortgage and encumbrances..
Property held in trust not beneficially or with general power to confer a beneficial interest ..
Other property not subject to duty ..
------------------- ---------
Total
------------------- ----------
Part II
Amended Form of Valuation of Estate.
(See sections 58 and 60)
In The Court of............................
Re: Probate of The Will of ............................(Or Administration of The Estate of ................................Deceased.)
1. I (A.B.) am the executor (or one of the executors or one of the next-of-kin, as the case may be) of
2. Probate was (or letters of administration were) granted to me on
3. It has now been discovered that the net value of the estate on which court-fee was paid was not correctly ascertained.
4. I have now truly set forth in Annexure A to this amended Form of Valuation all the estate of the deceased at the date
of
his death
________________________________________________________ which has
the application for probate (or letters of administration)
come or is likely to come to my hands.
Page 35/37
----- PAGE 36 -----
Telangana Court-fees and Suits Valuation Act, 1956
5. I further have now truly set forth in Annexure B all the items which I am by law allowed to deduct.
6. I further declare that the said estate, exclusive only of the last-mentioned items, at the date of
the death of the deceased was
______________________________________ under the value of-
this application is
7. I (A.B.) further declare that what is stated in this amended Form of Valuation is true to the best of my information and
belief.
(signed)
A.B.----------
III-contd.
Part II ? contd.
Annexure A.
Amended Valuation Of The Estate Of Deceased.
Valuation on
which court fee was paid.
Increase.
Decrease.
Valuation as now amended.
---------
---------
---------
---------
Total
..
..
..
---------
---------
---------
---------
Deduct items shown in Annexure B in the manner provided in
sub-section (2) of section 53.
------------------- ---------
Amended net value of estate
------------------- ---------
Annexure B.
Amended Schedule of Debits, Etc.
Valuation on
which court fee was paid.
Increase.
Decrease.
Valuation as now amended.
---------
---------
---------
---------
Total
..
..
..
---------
Page 36/37
----- PAGE 37 -----
Telangana Court-fees and Suits Valuation Act, 1956
---------
---------
---------
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 37/37