
----- PAGE 1 -----
Ramagundam (Metropolitan Area) Police Act, 2016
Ramagundam (Metropolitan Area) Police Act, 2016
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/83788394/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Telangana - Act
Ramagundam (Metropolitan Area) Police Act, 2016
TELENGANA
India
Ramagundam (Metropolitan Area) Police Act, 2016
Act 4 of 2017
Published on 20 January 2017
Commenced on 20 January 2017
[This is the version of this document from 20 January 2017.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Ramagundam (Metropolitan Area) Police Act, 2016
(Act
No. 4 of 2017
)
[Dated 20th January, 2017]
Received the assent of the Governor on the 19th January, 2017.
An Act to provide for the establishment of Ramagundam Police Commissionerate for the Metropolitan area of
Ramagundam and for the matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Telangana in the Sixty-seventh year of the Republic of India as follows:-
1.
Short title, extent and commencement.
Page 1/5
----- PAGE 2 -----
Ramagundam (Metropolitan Area) Police Act, 2016
(1)
This Act may be called the Ramagundam (Metropolitan Area) Police Act, 2016.
(2)
It extends to the limits of Ramagundam Metropolitan Area, declared by the Government by notification.
(3)
It shall be deemed to have been come into force with effect from 8th October, 2016.
2.
Definitions.
(1)
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
the "Ramagundam Metropolitan Area" means, the areas notified by the Government in this behalf;
(b)
"Commissioner" means, Commissioner of Police appointed by the Government under section 5 of the Act and the word
"Commissionerate" shall be construed accordingly;
(c)
"Collector and District Magistrate" means, the District Collector and the District Magistrate of the concerned District;
(d)
"Government" means, the State Government of Telangana;
(e)
"Notification" means, a notification published in the Telangana Gazette and the word "notified" shall be construed
accordingly;
(f)
"Prescribed" means prescribed by rules under this Act.
(2)
The words and expressions used in this Act and not defined, but defined in the Hyderabad City Police Act, 1348 F., (Act
IX of 1348 F.) shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in the said Act.
3.
Establishment of Ramagundam Police Commissionerate for the Metropolitan Area of Ramagundam.
(1)
With effect from the commencement of this Act, the areas as notified by the Government as Ramagundam Metropolitan
Area under section 8 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, (Central Act 2 of 1974) shall be the Ramagundam Police
Commissionerate for the purpose of this Act, and on such commencement the Ramagundam Police Commissionerate
shall be deemed to have been established for the said Metropolitan Area of Ramagundam:
Provided that the Government may, from time to time, after consultation with the Collector and District Magistrate and
Commissioner, by notification in the Telangana Gazette, alter the limits of the Commissionerate constituted under this
sub-section so as to include therein or to exclude there from the areas specified in the notification:
Provided further that the power to issue a notification under this sub-section shall be subject to previous publication.
(2)
Subject to the provisions of sub-sections (3) and (4), the Telangana District Police Act, 1329 F., (Act X of 1329 F.) shall
with effect from the commencement of this Act, cease to apply to the Ramagundam Metropolitan Area.
(3)
Such cessation shall not effect,-
(a)
the previous operation of the Telangana District Police Act, 1329 F., (Act X of 1329 F.) in respect of the areas within the
Metropolitan area of Ramagundam;
(b)
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred in respect of any offences committed under the provisions of the
Telangana District Police Act, 1329 F. (Act X of 1329 F.); or
(c)
any investigation, legal proceedings or remedy in respect of such penalty, forfeiture or punishment and any such
Page 2/5
----- PAGE 3 -----
Ramagundam (Metropolitan Area) Police Act, 2016
penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be imposed as if this Act had not been enacted.
(4)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (2), all notifications, rules, regulations, orders, directions, and powers
made, issued or conferred under the provisions of the Telangana District Police Act, 1329 F., (Act X of 1329 F.) and in
force at the commencement of this Act, shall so far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act continue to
be in force in the Ramagundam Metropolitan Area, until they are replaced by the notification, rules, regulations, orders,
directions and powers to be made or issued or conferred under this Act.
4.
Organisation of Police.
(1)
With effect from the date of commencement of this Act, the Police Force functioning in the Ramagundam Metropolitan
area shall be deemed to be the Police Force of such Metropolitan area.
(2)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), it shall be competent for the Government to appoint any Police
Force as may be prescribed in this behalf from time to time.
5.
Appointment and removal of Police Commissioner.
(1)
The control and supervision of Police Force specified under section 4 shall, subject to the orders of the Government, be
vested in an officer, who shall be called the Commissioner of Ramagundam for the metropolitan area and who may from
time to time, be appointed and removed by the Government.
(2)
The Headquarters of the Commissionerate shall be at Ramagundam or at such other place as may be notified.
(3)
The Commissioner shall be designated as Commissioner of Police and Additional District Magistrate, Ramagundam.
6.
Appointment of Deputy Commissioner and Assistant Commissioner.
(1)
The Government may, from time to time, appoint one or more Deputy Commissioners and one or more Assistant
Commissioners or may remove any Deputy Commissioner or Assistant Commissioner so appointed.
(2)
Every such Deputy Commissioner shall, subject to the orders of the Commissioner, be competent to exercise all powers
or perform some of the duties which are required to be performed by the Commissioner under this Act or any other
enactment for the time being in force, and every Assistant Commissioner of Police appointed under subsection (1) shall
exercise such powers or perform such duties as may from time to time be conferred upon or assigned to him by the
Commissioner:
Provided that the Deputy Commissioner and Assistant Commissioner shall not exercise the powers regarding making
rules for regulation of traffic and for preservation of orders and judicial powers of superior police officer, vested in the
Commissioner.
7.
Application of the provisions of the Hyderabad City Police Act, 1348 F.
(1)
Save as otherwise expressly provided herein, all the provisions of the Hyderabad City Police Act, 1348 F., (Act IX of
1348 F) (hereinafter in this section called "the said Act") including the provisions relating to make rules for regulation of
traffic and for preservation of orders and giving directions to public are hereby extended to and shall apply mutatis
mutandis to the Ramagundam Commissionerate and the said Act shall, in relation to the Commissionerate be read and
construed as if the provisions of the said Act had formed part of this Act.
(2)
The Commissioner and the Deputy Commissioners of Police of Ramagundam Police Commissionerate shall exercise
the powers of the District Magistrate under section 47 of the Hyderabad City Police Act, 1348 F., (Act IX of 1348 F) in
the limits of urban police stations as may be notified by the Government, from time to time, in consultation with the
Page 3/5
----- PAGE 4 -----
Ramagundam (Metropolitan Area) Police Act, 2016
Collector and District Magistrate / Commissioner of Police.
(3)
For the purpose of facilitating the application of the provisions of the Hyderabad City Police Act, 1348 F., (Act IX of 1348
F) to the Ramagundam Commissionerate, the Government may, by notification, make such adaptations and
modifications of the said Act and rules, notifications, regulations, orders, directions made thereunder whether by way of
repealing, amending or suspending any provision thereof as may be necessary or expedient and thereupon the said Act
and the rules, notifications, regulations, orders and directions made thereunder, shall apply to the Ramagundam
Commissionerate, subject to the adaptation and modifications so made.
(4)
Notwithstanding that no provision or insufficient provision has been made under sub-section (3) for the adaptation of the
provisions of the said Act, rules, notifications, regulations, orders and directions made thereunder, any Court, Tribunal or
authority, required or empowered to enforce those provisions may, for the purpose of facilitating their application to the
Commissionerate, construe these provisions in such manner, without affecting the substance as may be necessary or
proper in regard to the matter before the Court, Tribunal or Authority.
8.
Power to remove difficulty.
(1)
If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the Government may, by notification in the Telangana
Gazette do anything not inconsistent with such provisions which appear to them to be expedient or necessary for the
purpose of removing the difficulty.
(2)
Every notification issued under this section shall be laid before the Legislature of the State as soon as possible after it is
issued and if the Legislature agrees in making any modification in the notification or in the annulment of the notification,
the notification shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or stand annulled as the case may be, so however,
that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that
notification.
9.
Power to give directions.
- The Government may, from time to time, give such directions not inconsistent with the provisions of the Act or the rules
made thereunder to the Ramagundam Commissionerate as it may consider necessary for carrying out the purposes of
this Act.
10.
Power to make rules.
(1)
The Government may, by notification, make rules for carrying out all or any of the purposes of this Act.
(2)
Every rule made under this Act shall immediately after it is made, be laid before the Legislature of the State, if it is in
session and if it is not in session, in the session immediately following for a total period of fourteen days which may be
comprised in one session or in two successive sessions, and if, before the expiration of the session in which it is so laid
or the session immediately following the Legislature agrees in making any modification in the rule or in the annulment of
the rule, the rule shall, from the date on which the modification or annulment is notified, have effect only in such modified
form or shall stand annulled as the case may be, so however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without
prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule.
11.
Amendment of Act X of 1329 Fasli.
- In the Telangana District Police Act, 1329 F., in section 1, for the words "and the Nizamabad Metropolitan Area", the
words "Nizamabad Metropolitan Area and the Ramagundam Metropolitan Area" shall be substituted.
12.
Repeal of Ordinance 9 of 2016.
- The Ramagundam (Metropolitan Area) Police Ordinance, 2016 is hereby repealed.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Page 4/5
----- PAGE 5 -----
Ramagundam (Metropolitan Area) Police Act, 2016
Translation
Page 5/5