
----- PAGE 1 -----
Telangana Elementary Teacher Education Institutions/District Institutes of Education and T...
Telangana Elementary Teacher Education Institutions/District
Institutes of Education and Training (Regulation of Admissions into
Diploma in Elementary Education Programme (D.El.Ed.) through
Common Entrance Test) Rules, 2017
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/101311901/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Telangana - Act
Telangana Elementary Teacher Education Institutions/District Institutes of Education and Training (Regulation of
Admissions into Diploma in Elementary Education Programme (D.El.Ed.) through Common Entrance Test) Rules, 2017
TELENGANA
India
Telangana Elementary Teacher Education Institutions/District Institutes of Education and Training (Regulation of
Admissions into Diploma in Elementary Education Programme (D.El.Ed.) through Common Entrance Test) Rules, 2017
Rule
TELANGANA-ELEMENTARY-TEACHER-EDUCATION-INSTITUTIONS-DISTRICT-INSTITUTES-OF-EDUCATION-AND
-TRAINING-REGULATION-OF-ADMISSIONS-INTO-DIPLOMA-IN-ELEMENTARY-EDUCATION-PROGRAMME-D-EL-E
D-THROUGH-COMMON-ENTRANCE-TEST-RULES-2017 of 2017
Published on 12 April 2017
Commenced on 12 April 2017
[This is the version of this document from 12 April 2017.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Page 1/16
----- PAGE 2 -----
Telangana Elementary Teacher Education Institutions/District Institutes of Education and T...
Telangana Elementary Teacher Education Institutions/District Institutes of Education and Training (Regulation of
Admissions into Diploma in Elementary Education Programme (D.El.Ed.) through Common Entrance Test) Rules, 2017
Published vide Notification No. G.O.Ms. No. 10, School Education (Prog. - 2) dated 12.4.2017
G.O.Ms. No. 10, School Education (Prog. - II), 12th April, 2017. - In exercise of the powers conferred by sections 3 and
15 of the Telangana Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admissions and Prohibition of Capitation Fee) Act, 1983 (Act
No.5 of 1983) and in supersession of all the rules in force on the subject, the Governor of Telangana State hereby
makes the following rules for admission of students into Elementary Teacher Training Institutions/District Institutes of
Education and Training (DIETs) through Diploma in Elementary Education Common Entrance Test (DEECET):
1.
Short Title, Applicability and Commencement.
- (i) These rules may be called the Telangana Elementary Teacher Education Institutions/District Institutes of Education
and Training (Regulation of Admissions into Diploma in Elementary Education Programme (D.El.Ed.) through Common
Entrance Test) Rules, 2017.
(ii)
They shall apply to all Government and Private Un-aided Elementary Teacher Education Institutions/District Institutes of
Education and Training (DIETs) imparting Diploma in Elementary Education (D.El.Ed.) Programme in the State.
(iii)
They shall come into force from the academic year 2017-18.
2.
Definitions.
- (i) In these rules, unless the Context otherwise requires:-
(a)
"Act" means, the Telangana Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admissions and Prohibition of Capitation Fee) Act,
1983 (Act No.5 of 1983).
(b)
"Chairperson" means, Chairperson of the Diploma in Elementary Education Common Entrance Test (DEECET) and the
DEECET Committee.
(c)
" Diploma in Elementary Education Common Entrance Test" (DEECET) means, Examination conducted 'online' for
assigning rank or merit in the order to the candidates who appear for the said test which will be the basis for admission
into the D.El.Ed. Programme in the Government DIETs and all Government and Private Un-aided Elementary Teacher
Education Institutions in the State.
(d)
"Diploma in Elementary Education Common Entrance Test Committee" means, the Committee empowered to conduct
the DEECET online and to prepare the list of candidates in the order of marks (merit) obtained in the DEECET based on
which admissions will be made.
(e)
"Competent Authority" means, the Commissioner & Director of School Education, Telangana, Hyderabad.
(f)
"Chairperson, Affiliation Committee" means, the Commissioner and Director of School Education.
(g)
"Convener of DEECET Admissions" means the Commissioner and Director of School Education, Telangana and
Chairperson, DEECET Committee who shall conduct DEECET 'Online' and allot candidates for admission into Diploma
in Elementary Education (D.El.Ed.) Programme in all the District Institutes of Education and Training and for the
Category 'A' seats of all Private Un-aided Non- Minority Elementary Teacher Education Institutions and the Private
Un-aided Minority Elementary Teacher Education Institutions that opted for admissions through Single Window 1.
(h)
"Convener of DEECET-AC Admissions" means, a person nominated by the Association(s) of Private Unaided Minority
Elementary Teacher Education Institutions for selection and allotment of qualified candidates for admission into
Category 'A' seats of Minority Elementary Teacher Education Institutions that opted for Single Window 2.
(i)
Page 2/16
----- PAGE 3 -----
Telangana Elementary Teacher Education Institutions/District Institutes of Education and T...
"Eligible Candidate" means, the candidate who is eligible for admission as per the eligibility criteria prescribed in these
Rules.
(j)
"Government" means, the State Government of Telangana.
(k)
"Inspecting Authority" means, the Authority/Officer appointed by the Competent Authority for verifying the admissions
made in the Private Un-aided Elementary Teacher Education Institutions offering D.EI.Ed. Programme.
(l)
"Verification Officer" means, the Principal of DIET of the district/districts concerned as given against the name of the
DIET who shall be authorized by the Competent Authority to verify all the relevant documents of the list of DEECET
qualified candidates that shall be notified by the Convener of DEECET or DEECET-AC for consideration for admissions.
(m)
"Jurisdiction of DIET" means, the districts that come under any of the existing DIETs established in the erstwhile districts
as shown below and shall be responsible for conducting and monitoring all D.EI.Ed. related works:
Name of the existing DIET
Districts under its Jurisdiction
Mahabubnagar
Mahabubnagar, Wanaparthy, Jogulamba Gadwal,
Nagar Kurnool
Ranga Reddy
Ranga Reddy, Medchal, Vikarabad
Hyderabad
Hyderabad
Medak
Medak, Sanga Reddy, Siddipet
Nizamabad
Nizamabad, Kama Reddy
Adilabad
Adilabad, Nirmal, Mancherial, Komram Bheem
Asifabad
Karimnagar
Karimnagar, Peddapally, Jagityal, Rajanna
Siricilla
Warangal
Jangaon, Warangal (Urban), Warangal (Rural),
Mahaboobabad, Jaya Shankar Bhupalapally
Khammam
Khammam, Bhadradri Kothagudem
Nalgonda
Nalgonda, Yadadri, Suryapet
(n)
"Verification Centre" means, the DIET concerned as shown in the Table at Rule 2 (m) where the verification of
documents shall be conducted and which shall be notified by the DEECET Committee.
(o)
"Institution" means, unless otherwise specifically mentioned, all the Government DIETs, Government Elementary
Teacher Education Institutions and all Private Elementary Teacher Education Institutions in the State imparting D.El.Ed
Programme.
(p)
"Concerned Minority Institution" means, the Linguistic or Religious Minority Institution to which such a status is accorded
by the Government as per G.O.Ms.No.1, Minorities Welfare Department, Dated 16-01-2004 and as amended from time
to time.
Page 3/16
----- PAGE 4 -----
Telangana Elementary Teacher Education Institutions/District Institutes of Education and T...
(q)
"Minority Elementary Teacher Education Institution" means, the institution imparting D.El.Ed. Programme established
and administered by the concerned Minority Organisation and recognised by the Government as such as per
G.O.Ms.No.1, Minorities Welfare Department, dated 16-01-2004 as amended from time to time.
(r)
"Minority Candidate" means, a candidate who can be determined as belonging to any particular Minority Community as
mentioned in G.O.Ms.No.1, Minorities Welfare (M&R) Department, dated 16.01.2004 as amended from time to time
(s)
"Qualifying Candidate" means, the candidate who appeared for the DEECET for admission into the D.EI.Ed. Programme
and has been assigned medium wise rank in the Common Merit List as per Rule 8 of these rules for admission into all
the Government DIETs and Elementary Teacher Education Institutions.
(t)
"Qualifying Examination" means, the examination of the minimum qualification which entitles a candidate to seek
admission into D.EI.Ed. Programme as prescribed in Rule 4 of these Rules.
(u)
"Single Window System" means, a system by which available seats in all the Institutions (Government DIETS,
Government Elementary Teacher Education Institutions and Category A seats of Un-aided Private Elementary Teacher
Education Institutions) are offered through a Common Centralised Counseling through web based programme to the
qualified candidates in the order of merit obtained in the DEECET.
(v)
"Single Window-1" means, the group of Institutions opting for the Single Window System operated by the Convener
DEECET for admissions from DEECET rank holders. All the seats in all Government DIETs, Government Elementary
Teacher Education Institutions, Category 'A' seats in Private Unaided Non-Minority Institutions and Private Unaided
Minority Institutions that opted for Single Window-1.
(w)
"Single Window-2" means, the Private Un-aided Minority group of Institutions opting for the Single Window System
operated by the Convener DEECET AC for admissions into Category 'A' seats of their respective institutions from
DEECET rank holders.
(x)
"Category A seats" means, 80% of the sanctioned intake of the seats in all the Private Un-aided Elementary Teacher
Education Institutions to be filled by the Convener DEECET or DEECET AC as the case may be from the DEECET rank
holders in the order of merit as per the eligibility conditions mentioned in Rule 4 of these rules.
(y)
"Category B seats" means, 20% of the sanctioned intake of the seats in Private Un-aided Non-Minority and Private
Un-aided Minority Elementary Teacher Education Institutions to be filled by the managements of the respective colleges
as per the eligibility conditions mentioned in Rule 4 of these rules and subject to approval by the Convener DEECET.
(z)
"Academic Calendar" means, the Time Table of the activities of the D.El.Ed. Programme with fixed time period and
duration for each activity depending on the weight age assigned to the various Programme components to be developed
by the Director, SCERT.
(ii)
Words and expression used but not defined in these Rules shall have the same meaning assigned to them in the
Telangana Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admissions and Prohibition of Capitation Fee) Act, 1983 (Act No. 5 of
1983).
3.
Allotment of Seats.
- Government Diets, Government Elementary Teacher Education Institutions and Un-Aided Private Elementary Teacher
Education Institutions.
(i)
All the sanctioned intake of seats for D.El.Ed Programme in Government DIETs, Government Elementary Teacher
Education Institutions shall be filled by the Convener, DEECET. Such seats shall be allotted to the eligible candidates on
Page 4/16
----- PAGE 5 -----
Telangana Elementary Teacher Education Institutions/District Institutes of Education and T...
the basis of rank obtained in DEECET by following the provisions of Rule 6 and Rules of Reservation as laid down in
Rule 7 hereunder.
(ii)
Private Un-aided Non-Minority and Private Un-aided Minority Elementary Teacher Education Institutions:
(a)
The seats allotted in each Private Un-aided Non-Minority and Private Un-aided Minority Elementary Teacher Education
Institutions under these rules of admission of candidates shall be classified as:
1. Category A seats
2. Category B seats
(b)
The Category A seats shall be 80% of the sanctioned intake of seats in D.El.Ed Programme in the Private Un-aided
Non-Minority and Private Un-aided Minority Elementary Teacher Education Institutions, which shall be filled with eligible
candidates on the basis of rank obtained in DEECET following the provisions of Rule 6 (IV)(A) and 6 (IV) (B) as the case
may be. Rules of Reservation laid down in Rule 7 shall be applicable to all the Private Un-aided Non-Minority institutions
and the Private Un-aided Minority Institutions that opted for SW - 1 while for the Private Un-aided Minority Institutions
that opted for SW - 2 the Rules of Reservation given at Rule 7(i) relating to the 'Local Area' shall only be applicable.
(c)
The Category B seats shall be 20% of the total sanctioned intake of seats in D.El.Ed Programme in respect of Private
Un-aided Non-Minority and Private Un-aided Minority Elementary Teacher Education Institutions, which shall be open to
all the eligible candidates who satisfied the eligibility criteria for admission as mentioned at Rule 4 of these Rules.
4.
Eligibility Criteria for Admission.
- The eligibility criteria for admission into D.El.Ed. Programme shall be as mentioned below:
(i)
The candidates should be of Indian Nationality and should satisfy the Local/Non Local status requirements as laid down
in the Telangana Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admission) Order, 1974 as amended from time to time for
admission into all seats in Government DIETs, Government Elementary Teacher Education Institutions and Category A
seats in Private Un-aided Non-Minority and Private Unaided Minority Elementary Teacher Education Institutions.
(ii)
Candidates should have secured a rank in DEECET conducted for the Academic Year concerned for admission into
Government DIETs, Government Elementary Teacher Education Institutions and should satisfy the educational criteria
prescribed for the course as shown at (iii) below. For obtaining a rank, candidate belonging to "OC" and "BC"
Communities shall secure 35% marks in DEECET. For Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes there shall be no
minimum qualifying marks for allotment of seats reserved under the respective categories. That is to say, candidates
belonging to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Communities should secure 35% of marks for consideration
against seats under OC/NCC/Defence Personnel or their children and spouses/Sports category.
(iii)
Educational Qualifications:
For all seats in all Government DIETs/Elementary Teacher Education Institutions:
(a)
The candidate should have passed or appeared for the Intermediate Examination (Qualifying Exam) or its equivalent as
decided by the DEECET Committee for appearing at the DEECET. However, she/he should have passed the qualifying
examination by the time of admission.
(b)
The candidates should have secured 50% of marks in aggregate in the Qualifying Examination for appearing at the
DEECET. The minimum percentage of marks in the case of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and Physically
Challenged candidates shall however be 45%. The candidates who passed Intermediate with Vocational Courses are
not eligible for appearing at DEECET.
(iv)
Candidates should have completed 17 years of age as on 1stSeptember of the year of admission. There shall be no
upper age limit for admission into D.EI.Ed Programme.
Page 5/16
----- PAGE 6 -----
Telangana Elementary Teacher Education Institutions/District Institutes of Education and T...
(v)
The minority status of the students shall be decided as mentioned at Rule 2 (i) (r) of these Rules.
5.
Method of admission.
- The General guidelines for admission of the candidates into Elementary Education Institutions offering D.EI.Ed
Programme shall be as follows:
(1)
The admissions into all Government DIETs, Government Elementary Teacher Education Institutions and Category 'A'
seats of the Private Unaided Elementary Teacher Education Institutions shall be made through a Single Window System
in the order of merit on the basis of medium-wise rank assigned in DEECET and to the extent of sanctioned seats
through Web Based Admission Service provided by the Convener DEECET or Convener DEECET AC as the case may
be. The candidates opting for any particular medium shall exercise their option in the online application for appearing for
DEECET and the Test Paper for DEECET shall be in that particular Medium only.
(2)
All the seats in Private Un-aided Non-Minority/Private Un-aided Minority Institutions offering D.EI.Ed Programme shall
be filled as follows:
(a)
All the Category A seats shall be filled by admitting the candidates as allotted by the Convener DEECET in case of
Private Un-aided Non-Minority institutions and in case of Private Un-aided Minority Institutions by the Convener of
Deecet/Deecet-Ac depending upon the option exercised by the Institutions and as per the Rules applicable as laid down
in Rule 6 and Rule 7 below.
(b)
All the category B seats shall be filled by the respective Institutions with the eligible candidates as per Rule 4 given
above. Admissions under B Category shall be done duly following the procedure laid down in Rule 6 (V) of these Rules.
(c)
The Admission of the candidate made in Private Un-aided Non- Minority/Private Un-aided Minority (Under Single
Window 1 and (2) Elementary Teacher Education Institutions under Category 'B' shall be subject to approval by the
Convener DEECET.
6.
Procedure of Admissions for all the Seats in Government diets, Government Elementary Teacher Education Institutions
and for Category 'A' Seats in Respect of Private Un-Aided Elementary Teacher Education Institutions.
- I. For the purpose of admissions, all the Institutions shall be divided into 2 groups viz.,
(i)
Single Window1 (SW-1): Institutions opting for Single Window System to be operated by the Convener, DEECET for
Admissions from DEECET rank Holders.
(ii)
Single Window 2 (SW-2): Private Un-aided Minority Institutions opting for Single Window System operated by the
Convener- DEECET- AC for Admissions into Category 'A' seats of Private Un-aided Minority institutions from the
DEECET Rank holders.
II. (a) Each Private Un-aided Minority Institution shall indicate in writing to the Commissioner & Director of School
Education within the cut-off date specified for that particular year through a Notification as to whether the college would
admit students through the Single Window system to be operated by the Convener, DEECET admissions (SW-1) or the
Convener DEECET-AC admissions (SW-2).
(b)
All Private Un-aided Non-Minority and Private Un-aided Minority Elementary Institutions shall indicate in writing to the
Commissioner & Director of School Education within the cut-off date specified for that particular year through a
Notification as to whether the college would conduct the D.El.Ed. Programme in Telugu or Urdu or English medium and
that they shall admit students for only that particular medium under both Category 'A' & 'B'.
III. The Commissioner & Director of School Education shall issue a Notification in at least three leading News Papers
covering Telugu, English and Urdu languages at least Two weeks before the issue of Notification of DEECET for any
particular year, inviting the managements of all -
Page 6/16
----- PAGE 7 -----
Telangana Elementary Teacher Education Institutions/District Institutes of Education and T...
A. Private Un-aided Minority Institutions to exercise their option for admission by the Convener, DEECET admissions
(SW-1) or the Convener DEECET-AC admissions (SW-2). The willing managements of Private Un-aided Minority
D.El.Ed. Colleges having valid Minority Status Certificates and willing to opt for SWII shall submit the option within the
prescribed time along with the copies of Certificates to the Commissioner & Director of School Education.
B. Private Un-aided Non-Minority and Private Un-aided Minority institutions to exercise their option for Telugu or Urdu or
English medium. The option of the managements shall be submitted in an Affidavit to the Commissioner & Director of
School Education within the prescribed time. The Managements shall also indicate that they shall provide the
instructional facilities for that particular medium as per the Norms prescribed by NCTE for the D.El.Ed. Programme.
IV. The procedure for admission of the candidates through Single Window System operated by the Convener, DEECET
(SW-1) and DEECET-AC (SW- 2)shall be as follows:
A. Procedure to fill up seats through SW-1: Following category of seats shall be filled up through SW-1
(a)
100% Seats in case of Government DIETs, Government Elementary Teacher Education Institutions
(b)
Category 'A' seats in Private Un-aided Non-Minority Institutions
(c)
Category 'A' Seats in Private Un-aided Minority Institutions that opted for SW-1
(i)
The Diploma in Elementary Education Common Entrance Test (DEECET) Committee for DEECET admissions shall be
constituted by the Competent Authority with the following members to advise the Convener of DEECET admissions in
the matters relating to admissions and such other matters necessary for the smooth conduct of admissions.
1
Commissioner &
Director of School
Chairperson and Education Convener, DEECET
2
Director, SCERT
Member
3
Director for Government Examinations
Member
4
One Principal of DIET (Nominated by the
Chairperson, DEECET)
Member
5
One Subject Expert (Nominated by the
Chairperson, DEECET preferably Professor/Lecturer of SCERT/CTE
/IASE)
Member
6
One Technical Expert (Nominated by the
Chairperson, DEECET from CGG/TSTS/IT department.)
Member
7
Additional Director, Co-ordination
Member
(ii)
The Convener of DEECET admissions shall prepare Medium wise Rank List of qualified candidates as per rule 8 below.
(iii)
The Convener, DEECET shall cause verification of Certificates of the qualified candidates as decided by the DEECET
Page 7/16
----- PAGE 8 -----
Telangana Elementary Teacher Education Institutions/District Institutes of Education and T...
Committee.
The Convener DEECET shall intimate the candidates to attend the session for verification of Certificates through a
notification.
The final list of 'Eligible' candidates after verification of the Certificates shall be notified by the Convener DEECET and
such candidates only shall be eligible for exercising web based options for allotment of seats
(iv)
The Convener, DEECET shall prepare the schedule and issue notification for web-based admissions in at least 3
leading newspapers one each in Telugu, English and Urdu along with hosting of the schedule and all other necessary
details on the official website of DEECET at least 7 days before commencement of taking web based options (Order of
Preference of Colleges for allotment of Seat) from the candidates. The decision of the DEECET Committee shall be final
for issuing notification, the schedule and procedure of admissions.
(v)
The Convener, DEECET admissions shall adopt computerized single window system of counseling by way of web
based selection of colleges. The Convener DEECET shall prepare the medium-wise seat matrix of all seats in
Government DIETs, Government Elementary Teacher Education Institutions, Category 'A' seats in Private Un-aided
Non-Minority Colleges and Category 'A' seats in Private Un-aided Minority Colleges that opted for SW1 in conformity
with Rule-7.
(vi)
The Convener, DEECET shall make all the necessary arrangements i.e., Identifying the agency through which online
examination and web based admission procedure may be carried including Fee collection, venues for verification of
Certificates, drawing of Verification Officers etc. in consultation with the DEECET Committee.
(vii)
No Management of Un-aided Private Elementary Teacher Education Institutions shall issue notification and call for
application for admission separately or individually for Category 'A' seats.
(viii)
The Convener, DEECET shall provide online service for web based selection and submission of order of preference of
colleges by the candidates. Allotment of seats shall be made based on the order of merit assigned in the DEECET by
following the rules of Reservation as shown in Rule 7 hereunder provided that in respect of Private Un-aided Minority
Colleges, seats shall be allotted only to the eligible candidates belonging to the concerned Minority Community only.
The Verification Officer shall confirm the Minority Status of the candidate as defined at Rule 2 (i)(r) above.
(ix)
All the Candidates who are allotted seats as per merit through web based selection of colleges shall be issued
Admission Letter online by the Convener. Candidates shall submit all the Original Certificates to the Principal of the
College to which allotted.
(x)
The allotment of seats shall be done separately for each medium and on the basis of merit as per rank obtained in
DEECET subject to the condition that the candidate should have passed the qualifying examination with the prescribed
percentage of marks as per Rule 4 of these Rules.
However, mere appearance at the entrance test and securing a rank does not entitle any candidate to be considered for
admission automatically into any institution unless she/he satisfies the Rules and Regulations of admission prescribed in
these Rules.
(xi)
Candidates admitted to any particular college during any particular phase cannot claim admission to any other institution
during that particular phase. However, she/he may opt for transfer of seat to any of the other college through sliding
procedure during the next phase of admission and such transfer of seat shall be final i.e., a candidate cannot claim for
the seat allotted prior to sliding in the earlier phase after being transferred to the new college opted in sliding. She/he
should invariably join in the college to which she/he is transferred. Transfer of seats from a college that is included in
SW-1 to another college included in SW-2 is not allowed
(xii)
The Convener, DEECET shall conduct web based selection and allotment of seats in 'Two' phases to fill up Category A
seats (80% of the sanctioned intake).
Page 8/16
----- PAGE 9 -----
Telangana Elementary Teacher Education Institutions/District Institutes of Education and T...
(xiii)
In case of Private Un-aided Non-minority institutions and Private Un-aided Minority Institutions that opted for SW1 after
the first two phases of admission, for left over seats or seats falling vacant due to non-reporting of the candidates to the
institution allotted within the specified time on the Final Admission Letter, the Convener DEECET shall notify a last date
giving 7 days time for the colleges to approach for allotment of candidates in place of non-reporting candidates. The
Convener, DEECET shall fix a schedule and conduct "Left over and Non-Reported Admission" process inviting the
candidates qualified in DEECET to submit their options from any of the DIETs through online service provided to the
Principal of DIET. Admission letters to such candidates shall be issued as per the order of merit provided that all other
eligibility criteria are fulfilled and subject to availability of seats.
During this phase the Private Un-aided Minority Institutions shall be allowed to fill up the vacant seats with 'General'
candidates provided that the 'General' candidates do not exceed the 30% limit prescribed in G.O.Ms.No.1 Minorities
Welfare Department dated 16-01-2004. and amendments from time to time. Seats falling vacant after such date shall
remain vacant for that year.
(xiv)
In any case, the management of any institution is not permitted to take candidates on its own to fill the non-reporting or
left over seats within or after the time fixed for admissions by the Convener Deecet.
B. Procedure to fill up seats through SW 2:
Category A seats (80%) in Private Un-aided Minority Colleges which have opted for DEECET AC admission through
SW-2
(i)
A Committee for DEECET-AC Admission shall be constituted by the Association of Minority Colleges that have opted for
SW-2 to nominate and advise the Convener, DEECET-AC in the matter relating to admission and on such other matters
necessary for the smooth conduct of admissions. Such Committee shall have one nominee as nominated by the
Convener, DEECET. The formation of such Committee shall be informed to the Competent Authority by the Convener of
DEECET-AC. It shall be the responsibility of the Convener of DEECET-AC to ensure the attendance of the nominee in
its meetings. The Convener of DEECET-AC shall be responsible for completing the Admission Procedure as per Rules
and for submitting timely, all the reports required by the Competent Authority.
(ii)
The Convener of DEECET-AC admissions shall collect Rank List of qualified candidates of DEECET prepared by the
Convener of the DEECET as per Rule (8) below. The Convener DEECET-AC shall cause verification of Certificates of
the qualified candidates as decided by the DEECET-AC Committee. The Convener DEECET-AC shall intimate the
candidates to attend the session for verification of Certificates through a notification.
The final list of 'Eligible' candidates after verification of the Certificates shall be notified by the Convener DEECET-AC
and such candidates only shall be eligible for exercising web based options for allotment of seats
(iii)
The Convener of DEECET-AC shall prepare the schedule and issue notification for web-based admissions in at least 3
leading newspapers one each in Telugu, English and Urdu along with hosting of the schedule and all other necessary
details on the official website of DEECET at least 7 days before commencement of taking web based options (Order of
Preference of Colleges for allotment of Seat) from the candidates. The decision of the DEECET-AC Committee shall be
final for issuing notification, the schedule and the procedure of admissions.
(iv)
The Convener of DEECET-AC admissions shall adopt computerized single window system of counseling by way of web
based selection of colleges and admissions. He shall make all the necessary arrangements i.e., agency through which
web based admission procedure may be carried, online Fee collection provision for which shall be made in all the 31
Districts.
(v)
No Management of Private Un-aided Minority College shall issue notification and call for application for admission
separately or individually for Category 'A' seats.
(vi)
Web based preference of colleges shall be taken from the candidates whose certificates are verified and found to be
satisfactory by the Principal of DIET concerned and belonging to the concerned Minority Community only through online
Page 9/16
----- PAGE 10 -----
Telangana Elementary Teacher Education Institutions/District Institutes of Education and T...
service provided for the purpose. Allotment of seat shall be made in the order of merit assigned to them in DEECET
maintaining the reservation of seats as specified in A.P. Educational Institutions (Regulations and Admissions) Order,
1974 as subsequently amended as given in Rule 7 (i)
Provided that in respect of Minority Colleges, seats shall be allotted only to the eligible candidates belonging to the
concerned Minority Community only. The Verification Officer shall confirm the Minority Status of the candidate as
defined at Rule 2 (i) (r) above.
(vii)
All the Candidates who are allotted seats as per merit through web based selection of colleges shall be issued
Admission Letter online by the Convener DEECET-AC. Candidates shall submit all the Original Certificates to the
Principal of the College to which allotted.
(viii)
The allotment of seats shall be done separately for each medium and on the basis of merit as per the rank obtained in
DEECET subject to the condition that the candidate should have passed the qualifying examination with the prescribed
percentage of marks as per Rule 4 of these Rules
However, mere appearance at the entrance test and securing a rank does not entitle any candidate to be considered for
admission automatically into any institution unless she/he satisfies the Rules and Regulations of admission prescribed in
these Rules.
(ix)
Candidates admitted to any particular college during any particular phase cannot claim admission to any other institution
during that particular phase. However, she/he may opt for transfer of seat to any of the other college through sliding
procedure during the next phase of admission and such transfer of seat shall be final i.e., a candidate cannot claim for
the seat allotted prior to sliding in the earlier phase after being transferred to the new college opted in sliding. She/he
should invariably join in the college to which she/he is transferred. Transfer of seats from a college that is included SW-2
to another college included in SW-1 is not allowed.
(x)
The Convener, DEECET-AC shall conduct counseling in Two Phases for filling up the Category 'A' seats (80% of the
sanctioned intake) with Minority Qualified candidates only.
(xi)
In two phases of admissions for item (x) rule 6, sub-rule (B) above, if 70% of Minority candidates are admitted, the
remaining 30% seats shall be filled with Non-minority candidates who are qualified in DEECET. In case, in two phases
of Minority counseling, if any college does not fill up the seats with 70% of Minority candidates, the left over seats out of
this 70% shall be kept vacant for that year and the remaining 30% shall be filled with Non-minority qualified candidates
in DEECET.
(xii)
The Convener, DEECET-AC shall notify a last date giving 7 days' time for the colleges to approach for allotment of
candidates in place of non-reporting candidates. The Convener, DEECET-AC shall fix a schedule and conduct "Left over
and Non-reported Admission" process online inviting the candidates qualified in DEECET and belonging to other than
the concerned Minority also to submit their options from any of the DIETs through online service provided to the
Principal of DIET. Admission letters to such candidates shall be issued 'online' as per the order of merit provided that all
other eligibility criteria are fulfilled and subject to availability of seats.
(xiii)
In any case, the management of any institution is not permitted to take candidates on its own to fill the non-reporting or
left over seats within or after the time fixed for admissions by the Convener DEECET.
(V)
Procedure to fill up seats under category B (20)% seats in Private Un-aided Non- Minority and Private Un-aided Minority
Institutions (Under SW 1 and SW 2): The institutions shall on the dates notified in the schedule for DEECET for that
particular year by the Convener DEECET
(i)
(a)
notify all the details of seats available under this category
(b)
Page 10/16
----- PAGE 11 -----
Telangana Elementary Teacher Education Institutions/District Institutes of Education and T...
conduct the admissions in a fair and transparent manner.
(c)
upload the details of admissions made on the website provided by the Convener, DEECET
(d)
get the Original Certificates of the candidates verified by Principal of DIET concerned
(e)
submit the List of candidates after verification by the Principal DIET concerned to the Convener DEECET for approval
(ii)
The Convener DEECET shall send the approved List of candidates admitted under Category B seats by the institutions
to the Director, SCERT, TS, Director, Government Examinations, TS, and the Principals of the DIETs concerned and to
the respective institutions.
(VI)
The Convener DEECET shall obtain the list of admitted candidates under Category A of SW-2 institutions from the
Convener DEECET-AC and shall transfer the database of all the admissions made for the academic year i.e.
Candidates admitted to Government DIETs, Government Elementary Teacher Education Institutions, Category A seats
and Category B seats of all Private Un-aided Non-Minority and Private Un-aided Minority Institutions to the Director,
Government Examinations, TS, Director, SCERT, TS, all the Principals of the DIETs in the State and to the respective
institutions. The College wise list of candidates shall be placed on the official website of the DEECET for Two years i.e.
the duration of the Programme.
7.
Rules of Reservation for admission in respect of all Seats in Government DIETs, Government Elementary Teacher
Education Institutions and Category A seats in respect of Private Un-aided Elementary Teacher Education Institutions.
- (i) Reservation of seats in D.El.Ed. Programme are as follows: Admission to 85% of the seats shall be reserved for the
local candidates and the remaining 15% of the seats shall be unreserved as specified in the Telangana Educational
Institutions (Regulations and Admissions) Order, 1974 as amended from time to time.
Explanation. - For the purpose of these Rules:
(A)
Local Areas Means: The part of the State comprising the erstwhile districts of Adilabad, Hyderabad (including Twin
cities) Ranga Reddy, Karimnagar, Khammam, Medak, Mahabubnagar, Nalgonda, Nizamabad and Warangal shall be
regarded as the Local Area for the purpose of admission into D.El.Ed.
(B)
Local Candidate means: (1) A Candidate for admission shall be regarded as a local candidate in relation to a local area.
(a)
If he/she has studied in educational Institution or educational Institutions in such local area for a period of not less than
four consecutive academic years ending with the academic year in which he/she appeared or as the case may be, first
appeared in the relevant qualifying exam.
(or)
(b)
Where, during the whole or any part of the four consecutive academic years ending with the academic year in which
he/she appeared or, as the case may be, first appeared for the relevant qualifying examination, he/she has not studied
in any educational Institutions, if he/she has resided in that local area for a period of not less than four years immediately
preceding the date of commencement of the relevant qualifying examination in which he/she appeared or, as the case
may be, first appeared.
(2)
A Candidate for admission to the Course who is not regarded as local candidate under clause (1) in relation to any local
area shall,
(a)
If he studied in educational institutions in the State for a period of not less than seven consecutive academic years
ending with the academic year in which he/she appeared or, as the case may be, first appeared for the relevant
qualifying examination be regarded as a local candidate in relation to,
(i)
Page 11/16
----- PAGE 12 -----
Telangana Elementary Teacher Education Institutions/District Institutes of Education and T...
Such local area where he/she studied for the maximum period out of said period of seven years,
(or)
(ii)
Where the period of his/her study in two or more local areas are equal, such local area, where he/she has studied last in
such equal period,
(or)
(b)
If, during the whole or any part of seven consecutive academic years ending with the academic year in which he/she
appeared or, as the case may be, first appeared for the relevant qualifying examination, he/she has not studied in the
educational institutions in any local area, but has resided in the State during the whole of the said period of seven years,
be regarded as a local candidate in relation to
(i)
Such local area where he/she resided for the maximum period out of said period of seven years;
ITEM (or)
(C)
The following categories of candidates are eligible to apply for admission to the remaining 15% of un-reserved seats:
(ii)
Where the period of his/her residing in two or more local areas is equal, such local area, where he/she has resided last
in such equal period.
(or)
(1)
All the candidates eligible to be declared as local candidates.
(2)
Candidates who have resided in the State for a total period of 10 years excluding periods of study outside the State or
either of whose parents have resided in the State for a total period of ten years excluding period of employment outside
the State.
(3)
Candidates who are children of parents who are in the employment of this State or Central Government, Public Sector
Corporations, Local Bodies, Universities and other similar quasi-Public Institutions, within the State.
(4)
Candidates who are spouses of those in the employment of the State or Central Government, Public Sector
Corporations, Local Bodies, Universities and Education Institutions recognized by the Government or University OR
other Competent Authority and similar quasi Government Institutions within the State.
(D)
If a local candidate in respect of local area is not available to fill any seat reserved or allocated in favour of a local
candidate in respect of that local area, such seat shall be filled up as un-reserved.
Note: For details, see the Telangana Educational Institutions (Regulations of Admission) Order, 1974 as amended from
time to time.
(ii)
Community-wise Reservation of Seats
A. Reservation of seats for SC/ST/BC communities: All seats in Government DIETs, Government Elementary Teacher
Education Institutions, Private Un-aided Elementary Teacher Educational Institutions offering D.El.Ed. Programme shall
be reserved in favour of SC/ST/BC as follows:
(a)
15% of seats in each course in each institution shall be reserved for the candidates belonging to Scheduled Castes.
(b)
6% of seats in each course in each Institution shall be reserved for the candidates belonging to the Scheduled Tribes.
The seats reserved for Scheduled Tribes shall be made available to Scheduled Castes and Vice-versa, if qualified
candidates are not available in the category.
If qualified candidate belonging to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Communities are not available the left over
seats reserved, for them shall be treated as unreserved seats and shall be filled by the candidates of General pool.
Page 12/16
----- PAGE 13 -----
Telangana Elementary Teacher Education Institutions/District Institutes of Education and T...
(c)
29% of seats in each course in each institution shall be reserved for the candidates belonging to the Backward Classes
and shall be allocated among the five groups of Backward Classes as shown below:
GROUP 'A' - 7%
GROUP 'B' - 10%
GROUP 'C' - 1%
GROUP 'D' - 7%
GROUP 'E' - 4%
If qualified candidates belonging to Backward Class of a particular group are not available, the leftover seats can be
adjusted for the candidates of next group. Even after doing this exercise, if qualified candidates belonging to Backward
Classes are not available to fill up the 29% seats reserved for them, the left over seats shall be treated as unreserved
and shall be filled up with candidates of General pool.
(d)
No candidate seeking reservation for admission under the above categories be allowed to participate in the counseling
for admission unless he produces the Integrated Community Certificate prescribed by the Government, and issued by
the Revenue Authorities in the Government vide G.O.Ms.No.58, Social Welfare (1), Department, dated: 12-5-1997) as
adapted vide G.O.MS. No. 5, Schedule Casts Development (POA.A2) Department, dated 08.08.2014 as amended from
time to time.
(iii)
Seats shall also be reserved in each course of an institution, for the following categories, to the extent indicated against
them.
(1)
Reservation of seats for Physically Handicapped persons:
Physically Handicapped (PH) - There shall be 3% (three percent) horizontal reservation in each category (OC, BC, SC,
ST) for Visually handicapped/hearing impaired/Orthopedically Handicapped (each 1%) (one percent.)
(2)
Reservation of seats for the Defence Personnel or their children and spouses: 2% (Two percent) of the available seats
in each institution shall be reserved (horizontal) for the Ex-servicemen, Defence Personnel, Border Security Force and
Central Reserved Police Force who are Domiciled in Telangana State based on the Permanent address/Home town
declared by them while joining the service and as recorded in their Service Register or their children and spouses.
(3)
Horizontal Reservation of seats for NCC/Scouts and Guides/Sports Candidates
(a)
National Cadet Corps (NCC) - there shall be ½ (half percent) reservation for National Cadet Corps candidates.
(b)
In Case of Scouts and Guides ½ (Half percent) of seats are reserved for Rashtrapati Awardee Scouts and Guides only.
(c)
Sports and Games - There shall be ½ (half percent) reservation for Sports and Games candidates:
Provided if qualified candidates belonging to Defence Personnel or their children and spouses/NCC/Sports and
Games/Scouts and Guides categories are not available, the left over seats shall be filled up with candidates of General
pool of the same local area.
Note: The candidates claiming reservation benefits under the above categories shall produce original documents in
support of their claim to the Convener of Admissions and the Convener of Admissions shall be entitled to refer the
original documents of the candidates claiming reservation for scrutiny and confirmation, to the following authorities.
(i)
NCC
-
The Director of NCC, Telangana State
(ii)
Sports &Games
-
Page 13/16
----- PAGE 14 -----
Telangana Elementary Teacher Education Institutions/District Institutes of Education and T...
The Vice-Chairman and Managing Director, Sports
Authority of Telangana State (SATS).
(iii)
Physically Handicapped
-
The Director, Medical & Health Services,
Telangana State.
(iv)
Defence Personnel etc.
-
The Director, Sainik Welfare Board, Telangana
State.
The priorities in respect of the special categories mentioned above shall be in accordance with Government Orders
issued from time to time.
(4)
Reservation for Women: There shall be a reservation (Horizontal reservation) of 33 ?% of seats in favour of Women
candidates in each category (OC/SC/ST/BC/PH/NCC/Defence Personnel or their children and spouses/Sports and
Games)
The above reservation shall not be applicable if women candidates selected on merit in each category exceeds 33 ?%. If
sufficient number of women candidates are not available in the respective categories those seats shall be filled up with
the men candidates of the same category,
(5)
Reservation of seats for the candidates sponsored by Other State Government/Union Territories.
One seat over and above intake capacity shall be reserved for the candidates sponsored by other State
Government/Union Territories for admission into two years D.Ed., course where there are Telugu Medium schools and
do not have facilities of DIETs in Telugu medium. Such seat shall be given in the Government DIET, Mahabubnagar in
the State without any reference to the DEECET on reciprocal basis.
8.
Generation of Rank List.
- Ranks shall be assigned to all the candidates medium wise as per the marks obtained in descending order i.e
assigning of Rank 1 to the candidate who scored highest marks followed by subsequent ranks to those who follow next
in the marks secured. In case of tie in the marks the following criteria should be followed for assigning ranks.
For the purpose of deciding the inter-se merit/rank of candidates with equal marks, the following procedure shall be
followed in that order:
(a)
Date of Birth: The elder candidate will be given higher rank over a younger candidate;
(b)
If the Date of Birth is also same, but the candidates belong to different genders, a female candidate will be given a
higher rank over a male candidate;
(c)
If two or more candidates have same date of birth, and no female candidate is one among them, or more than one
female candidates are available, then candidates belonging to the following communities (in that order) shall be given a
higher rank:
(a)
ST
(b)
SC
(c)
BC (A)
(d)
BC (B)
Page 14/16
----- PAGE 15 -----
Telangana Elementary Teacher Education Institutions/District Institutes of Education and T...
(e)
BC (C)
(f)
BC (D)
(g)
BC (E) and
(h)
OC
(d)
In case of further equality or tie, the date of passing of qualifying examination (Intermediate or its equivalent) followed by
the percentage of marks secured in the qualifying examination shall be taken into consideration.
9.
Schedule of Deecet.
(1)
The Chairperson, DEECET Committee should by convening a meeting of the DEECET Committee draw a schedule
such that the following dates fixed by the Honorable Supreme Court of India are adhered to:
Sl.No.
Activity
Date
1
Handing over of the final List of Colleges
granted Affiliation for that particular year for making
admissions to the DEECET Convener by the Chairman, Affiliation
Committee
10thof May
2
First day of instruction
1stof July
(2)
All the applications filed and received by the Chairperson for Affiliation Committee for granting affiliation for that year
shall be disposed before the above said date.
10.
Fee for D.El.Ed Programme.
- 1. (a) The DEECET Committee shall recommend the 'Fee' and the 'Manner of collecting the Fee' for the online test of
DEECET and for the web based counseling from the candidates opting for SW- 1 colleges and submit to the
Government for approval.
(b)
The Convener, DEECET shall collect D.El.Ed. Programme fee from the candidates who are given admission under SW
1 as prescribed by the Government from time to time and transfer the amounts to the colleges within two weeks after
closure of the admissions
2. (a) The DEECET-AC Committee shall recommend the 'Fee' and the 'Manner of collecting the Fee' for web based
counseling from the candidates opting for SW-2 colleges and submit to the Government for approval.
(b)
The Convener, DEECET-AC shall collect D.El.Ed. Programme fee from the candidates who are given admission under
SW 2 as prescribed by the Government from time to time and transfer the amounts to the colleges within two weeks
after closure of the admissions.
11.
Penalty for irregular admission/deviation or violation of Rules of Admission.
- In case, irregular admissions are made without following the admission rules, the following action shall be initiated by
the Competent Authority against the Principal/Correspondent of the College:
(i)
Page 15/16
----- PAGE 16 -----
Telangana Elementary Teacher Education Institutions/District Institutes of Education and T...
Penal action as per section 9 and 10 of the Telangana Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admissions and
Prohibition of Capitation Fee) Act, 1983 (Act No. 5 of 1983).
(ii)
Recommend to the National Council for Teacher Education and Affiliation Authority to take appropriate action under
relevant rules for Withdrawal of Recognition/Affiliation respectively.
(iii)
Refer to the Minority Welfare Department for taking appropriate action in case of Minority Institutions as per
G.O.Ms.No.1, Minorities Welfare Department, dated 16-1-2004.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 16/16