
----- PAGE 1 -----
Telangana Police (Selection and Appointment of Director General of Police (Head of Police ...
Telangana Police (Selection and Appointment of Director General of
Police (Head of Police Force)) Act, 2018
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/85906030/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
1
]
State of Telangana - Act
Telangana Police (Selection and Appointment of Director General of Police (Head of Police Force)) Act, 2018
TELENGANA
India
Telangana Police (Selection and Appointment of Director General of Police (Head of Police Force)) Act, 2018
Act 9 of 2018
Published on 30 March 2018
Commenced on 30 March 2018
[This is the version of this document from 30 March 2018.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Telangana Police (Selection and Appointment of Director General of Police (Head of Police Force)) Act, 2018
(Act
No. 9 of 2018
)
[Dated 30th March, 2018]
Received the assent of the Governor on the 29th March, 2018.
An Act to provide for selection and appointment of director general of Police (head of police force) and for matters
connected therewith or incidental thereto.
Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Telangana in the Sixty-ninth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Telangana Police (Selection and Appointment of Director General of Police (Head of Police ...
1.
Short title, extent and commencement.
(1)
This Act may be called the Telangana Police (Selection and Appointment of Director General of Police (Head of Police
Force)) Act, 2018.
(2)
It extends to the whole of the State of Telangana.
(3)
It shall come into force with effect from the date of publication of the Act in the Telangana Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
(1)
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Government" means the State Government;
(b)
"Police Officer" means any member of the Telangana Police and includes an Indian Police Service (IPS) Officer working
in connection with the affairs of the State and the Telangana Police;
(c)
"State" means the State of Telangana.
(2)
Words and expressions used in this Act, but not defined specifically, shall have the same meaning as provided in the
Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, (Central Act No.2 of 1974) and the Indian Penal Code, 1860, (Central Act No.45 of
1860).
3.
Selection, appointment of the Director General of Police (Head of Police Force) and tenure.
(1)
The Director General of Police (Head of Police Force) shall be selected and appointed by the State Government from
amongst the officers of the Indian Police Service in the rank of Director General of Police on the basis of their length of
service, very good history of service, professional knowledge and ability to lead Police Force in the State.
(2)
The Director General of Police (Head of Police Force) appointed under sub-section (1) shall have a minimum tenure of
two years, subject to retirement in accordance with the rules made under the All India Services Act, 1951, (Central Act
No.61 of 1951).
(3)
The Director General of Police (Head of Police Force) may be relieved of his/her responsibilities under the following
circumstances, namely,-
(a)
on conviction by a court of law in a criminal offence or in a case of corruption;
(b)
on punishment of dismissal, removal or compulsory retirement from service or of reduction to a lower post awarded
under the provisions of the All India Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules or any other relevant rules for the time being
in force;
(c)
on incapacitation by physical or mental illness or otherwise becoming unable to discharge his/ her functions;
(d)
on appointment to any other post either under the State Government or Central Government, with his/ her consent for
such posting;
(e)
on any other administrative grounds.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Telangana Police (Selection and Appointment of Director General of Police (Head of Police ...
Translation
Page 3/3