
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Telangana Judicial Ministerial and Subordinate Service Rules, 2018
The Telangana Judicial Ministerial and Subordinate Service Rules,
2018
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/32131509/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Telangana - Act
The Telangana Judicial Ministerial and Subordinate Service Rules, 2018
TELENGANA
India
The Telangana Judicial Ministerial and Subordinate Service Rules, 2018
Rule THE-TELANGANA-JUDICIAL-MINISTERIAL-AND-SUBORDINATE-SERVICE-RULES-2018 of 2018
Published on 18 May 2018
Commenced on 18 May 2018
[This is the version of this document from 18 May 2018.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Telangana Judicial Ministerial and Subordinate Service Rules, 2018
Published vide Notification No. G.O.Ms. No.29, Law (La&J-Home-Courts-B) Department, dated 18.5.2018
G.O.Ms. No.29, Law (La&J-Home-Courts-B) Department, dated 18.5.2018. - In exercise of the powers conferred by the
proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution of India and of all other powers hereunto enabling and in supersession of the
Andhra Pradesh Judicial Ministerial Service Rules, 2003, in its application to the State of Telangana issued in
G.O.Ms.No.129, Law (L.A.&J-Home-Courts-D), 12th November 2003 and subsequent amendments issued thereto from
time to time, the Governor of Telangana hereby makes the following Special Rules for the Telangana Judicial Ministerial
and Subordinate Services :-
1.
Page 1/22
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Telangana Judicial Ministerial and Subordinate Service Rules, 2018
Short Title and Commencement.
- 1. These rules may be called "the Telangana Judicial Ministerial and Subordinate Service Rules, 2018."
2.
They shall apply to the holders of all posts whether temporary or permanent, in the service appointed thereto either
under Andhra Pradesh Judicial Ministerial Service Rules, 2003 or under Andhra Pradesh Last Grade Service Rules or
Andhra Pradesh General Subordinate Service Rules before, on or after these Rules came into force except to the extent
otherwise expressly provided:-
(i)
By or under any law for the time being in the force or
(ii)
In respect of any member of the service under a contract or agreement subsisting between such member and the State
Government.
2. Definitions.
- For the purpose of these rules:-
(a)
"Aboriginal Tribes" means the communities defined as such in the Telangana State and Subordinate Service Rules for
the time being in force.
(b)
"Appointed to the Service" means a person is said to be appointed to the service when, in accordance with these rules
or in accordance with the rules applicable at the time, as the case may be, he discharges for the first time the duties of a
post borne on the cadre of the service or commences probation, instruction or training prescribed for the members
thereof.
Explanation. - The appointment of a person holding a post borne on the cadre of another service to hold additional
charge of a post borne on the cadre of this service or to discharge the current duties thereof does not amount to
appointment to this service:
(c)
"Approved candidate," means a candidate whose name appears in an authoritative list of candidates approved for
appointment to the service or a category thereof.
(d)
"Approved probationer in the service or a category thereof" means a member of the service or category who has
satisfactorily completed his/her probation and awaits appointment as a full member of the service or category, as the
case may be.
(e)
"Conversion" means appointment of a member of the service from one category to another or from one post to another
carrying the same scale of pay.
(f)
"Duty": A person is said to be "on duty" as a member of the service :-
a. When he/she is performing the duties of a post borne on the cadre of the service or undergoing probation:
b. When he/she is on joining time; or
c. When he/she is absent from duty on training or deputation by the Department during vacation or on authorized
holidays or on leave taken in accordance with the instructions regulating such leave issued by the State Government
having been on duty immediately before and immediately after such absence.
(g)
"Full Member" of the service means a member of the service who has been appointed substantively to a permanent post
borne on the cadre thereof.
(h)
"Member of the Service" means a person who has been appointed to the service and who has not retired or resigned,
been removed or dismissed, been substantively transferred or reduced to another service or been discharged otherwise
than for want of a vacancy. He/She may be a probationer, an approved probationer or a full member of the service.
(i)
"Minimum general educational qualification" means the qualification prescribed in the Schedule to the Telangana State
Page 2/22
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Telangana Judicial Ministerial and Subordinate Service Rules, 2018
and Subordinate Service Rules for the time being in force.
(j)
"Probationer" means a member of the service whose services are regularized and placed on probation.
(k)
"Promotion" means the appointment of a member of any category of the service to a higher category of the service
carrying higher scale of pay.
(l)
"Recruited direct" - A candidate is said to be "recruited direct" to the service when in case his/her first appointment
thereto is made by the Unit Officer, on the date of notification inviting applications for the recruitment, and in any other
case at the time of his/her first appointment thereto, he/she is not in the service of the Government of India or the
Government of a State.
Provided that for the purposes of this definition a person shall be deemed to be not in the service of the Government of
India or the Government of a State:
(i)
If a period of five years has elapsed since his/her first appointment to a service under the Government of India or the
Government of a State; or
(ii)
If he/she is a practicing member of the Bar, although holding an office under the Government, or
(iii)
If he/she holds a post, the conditions of service of the holder of which have been declared to be a matter not suitable for
regulation by rule, or
(iv)
If he/she belongs to the Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes or Backward Classes.
(m)
"Recruited by transfer" a candidate is said to be recruited by transfer to the Service,
(i)
if at the time of his/her first appointment thereto, he/she is either a full member or an approved probationer in any other
service, the rules for which prescribe a period of probation for members thereof; or
(ii)
in case at the time of his/her first appointment thereto he/she is the holder of a post which has been included in another
service but for which no probation has been prescribed, if he/she has put in that post satisfactory service or a total
period of two years within a continuous period of three years.
(n)
"Regular appointment" means the appointment made by the authorities concerned in accordance with the rules or orders
in force governing the respective posts.
(o)
"Scheduled Castes" means the communities defined as such in the Telangana State and Subordinate Service Rules for
the time being in force.
(p)
"Scheduled Tribes" means the communities defined as such in the Telangana State and Subordinate Service Rules for
the time being in force.
(q)
"Service" means a group of persons classified as the Telangana Judicial Ministerial and Subordinate Service.
Explanation. - (1) "Ministerial Service" means the Group of posts from Category 1 (Chef Administrative Officer) to
Category 12 (Copyist) of these Rules.
(2)
"Subordinate Service" means the Group of posts from Category 13 to Category 17 which posts comes under the
categories mentioned in T.S. General Subordinate Service Rules and T.S. Last Grade Service Rules.
Note. 1. - The age of superannuation for all the categories is as per the State Public Employment (Regulation of Age of
Superannuation) Act, 1984.
Note. 2. - where the context so requires "Service" means the period during which a person holds a post in accordance
Page 3/22
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Telangana Judicial Ministerial and Subordinate Service Rules, 2018
with these rules except Rule 27 or a lien on a post or is a member of a service as above defined.
(r)
The "Unit" means each individual Revenue District existing as on 01-10-2016 but in the case of Hyderabad City, the
area falling within the territorial jurisdiction of the Court of Chief Judge, City Civil Court, the area falling within the
territorial jurisdiction of the Court of Chief Judge, City Small Causes Court, the area falling within the territorial
jurisdiction of the Court of Metropolitan Sessions Judge, Hyderabad and the area falling within the territorial jurisdiction
of the Court of Principal Special Judge for CBI cases at Hyderabad for adjudication of matters of CBI Cases, Court of
SPE & ACB Cases at Hyderabad, Court of Essential Commodities Act Cases at Hyderabad, Court of Economic
Offences cases at Hyderabad, Court of Cases on Fraudulent drawals and misappropriation of Scholarship Amounts in
Social Welfare, Tribal Welfare and Backward Classes Departments at Hyderabad respectively.
(s)
The "Unit Head" means the Principal District & Sessions Judge in the Districts existing as on 01-10-2016 and in the case
of Hyderabad city, the Chief Judge, City Civil Court, the Chief Judge, City Small Causes Court, and the Metropolitan
Sessions Judge and the Principal Special Judge for CBI cases, Hyderabad.
3.
Pay, Allowances, Leave, Leave Salary, Pension and other condition of service.
- The Telangana Civil Service (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991, the rules regulating the pay of the
services, the TCS (Conduct) Rules, 1964, the Fundamental Rules, the Telangana Leave Rules and the Pension Rules
and the rules applicable to the Government servants for the time being in force shall, insofar as they may be applicable
and except to the extent expressly provided in these rules, govern members of this service in the matter of their pay,
allowances, leave, leave salary, pension and other conditions of service:
Provided that:-
(i)
Where any such member has selected to be governed by the provisions of the Civil Service Regulations, those
provisions shall apply to him/her;
(ii)
Save as otherwise expressly provided in these rules, nothing contained in this rule shall affect the operation of the
provisions of Article 526 of the Civil Service Regulations relating to the fixation of a member of a service who is in receipt
of a military pension;
4.
Cadres.
- The permanent cadre of each category in each unit shall be determined by the State Government as suggested by and
with the concurrence of the High Court.
5.
Constitution.
- The service shall consist of the following category of posts.
Category-1: Chief Administrative Officers: (formerly designated as Administrative Officer).
Category-2: Senior Superintendents (formerly designated as Head Clerk, District Court, Additional District Courts,
Sheristadar of Sub-Courts and Central Nazir of District Courts)
Category-3: Superintendents (formerly designated as Translators, Head Clerks of Munsif Courts, U.D. Record Keepers
of District Courts and Copying Superintendent).
Category-4: Stenographers Grade-I. (Restructured category of Personal Assistant)
Category-5: Stenographers Grade-II (Restructured category of Personal Assistant)
Category-6: Stenographers Grade III (Restructured category of Personal Assistant)
Category-7: Senior Assistants (formerly designated as Upper Division Clerk)
Category-8: Junior Assistants (formerly designated as L.D.Clerk)
Category-9: Typists
Category-10: Field Assistants (formerly designated as Bailiffs/ Amins)
Category-11: Examiners
Category-12: Copyists
Category-13: Senior Drivers (Light Vehicle).
Page 4/22
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Telangana Judicial Ministerial and Subordinate Service Rules, 2018
Category-14: Drivers (Light Vehicle)
Category-15: (a) Record Assistants.
(b)
Roneo Duplicator Operators
(c)
Lift Operators.
Category-16: Process Servers.
Category-17: Office Subordinates/Attenders.
Note. - The posts in categories 1 to 5 and 7 above are selection posts, promotion to which shall be made on the basis of
seniority-cum-merit.
6.
Method of appointment and appointing authority.
- Subject to the other provisions contained in these rules, the method of appointment and appointing authority for the
various categories shall be as follows;
Category and name of the post.
Method of appointment
Appointing Authority
1. Chief Administrative Officer
By Promotion of Senior Superintendents
(Category-2) and Stenographer Grade-I (category-4) in the ratio
of 5:1
Principal District Judge / Unit Head
2. Senior Superintendent
By promotion of Superintendents (Category 3)
Principal District Judge / Unit Head
3. Superintendent
By promotion of Senior Assistants (Category-7)
Principal District Judge / Unit Head.
4. Stenographer Grade I
By promotion of stenographers grade II
(category- 5)Note:In the Unit of Principal
Special Judge for CBI cases, Hyderabad, the Stenographers Grade
II working in the other Units in the State of Telangana are
eligible for promotion as Stenographers Grade-I by appointment by
transfer as per merit-cum-seniority.
Principal District Judge / Unit Head.
5. Stenographer Grade II
By promotion of stenographers grade III
(category-6)
Principal District Judge / Unit Head.
6. Stenographer Grade III
1. 60% By direct recruitment2. 40% By
Promotion of Junior Assistants(category-8)/ Typists (category-9)
from a combined seniority.Provided that if the candidates in
the categories of Junior Assistant (Category-8), Typist
(Category-9) are not eligible, the candidates below the Category
of Junior Assistant/Typist i.e. categories 10 to 17 are also
eligible by transfer, if they are having 5 years of
service.Further Provided that if the candidates in the
categories of Junior Assistant (Category-8), Typist (Category-9)
for promotion and Categories 10 to 17 by transfer to the post of
Page 5/22
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Telangana Judicial Ministerial and Subordinate Service Rules, 2018
Stenographer Grade-III (Category-6), are not available as on the
date of issue of Notification, the said post(s) may be filled up
by way of direct recruitment.
Principal District Judge / Unit Head.
7. Senior Assistant
By promotion of Junior Assistants (Category-8) /
Typists. (Category-9) and Field Assistants (Category-10) by
fixing the ratio of 5: 1 in a cycle of Six (6) vacancies as
prescribed in Note 2.Provided that the persons working in
category-10 i.e., Field Assistant shall not be eligible for
promotion to Category-7 i.e., Senior Assistant unless they
complete the minimum service of 10 years in the category of Field
Assistant.
Principal District Judge / Unit Head
8. Junior Assistant
1. 50% By direct recruitment2. 50% By
promotion of Examiners (Category -11) / Copyists (Category - 12)
from the combined seniority and promotion of Record Assistants /
Roneo Duplicator Operator/ Lift Operator, (Category-15(a)(b)(c)),
Senior Drivers/Drivers (Category-13&14) and Process Servers
(Category- 16) by fixing ratio of 8:4:1:3 in a cycle of 16
vacancies as prescribed in Note 2.
Principal District Judge / Unit Head
9. Typist
1. 50% By direct recruitment2. 50%By
promotion of Examiners (Category- 11)/Copyists (Category -12)
from the combined seniority and promotion of Record Assistants/
Roneo Duplicator Operator/ Lift Operator, (Category-
15(a)(b)(c)), and Process Servers (Category-16) by fixing ratio
of 9:4:3 in a cycle of 16 vacancies as prescribed in Note 2.
Principal District Judge / Unit Head
10. Field Assistant
1. 33 ?%By direct recruitment.2. 66 2/3%
By Promotion of Process Server (Category-16).
Principal District Judge / Unit Head
11. Examiner
1. 50% By direct recruitment2. 50% By
Promotion of Office Subordinates / Attenders (Category-17).
Principal District Judge / Unit Head
12. Copyist
1. 50% By direct recruitment2. 50% By
Promotion of Office Subordinates / Attenders (Category-17).
Principal District Judge / Unit Head
13. Senior Driver (Light Vehicle)
By promotion of Driver (light Vehicle)
(Category-14)
Principal District Judge / Unit Head
14. Driver (Light Vehicle)
By Promotion of Office Subordinates/Attenders
(Category-17) If no eligible candidate is available for
Promotion, the post may be filled up by way of direct
Page 6/22
----- PAGE 7 -----
The Telangana Judicial Ministerial and Subordinate Service Rules, 2018
recruitment.
Principal District Judge / Unit Head
15.(a) Record Assistant(b) Roneo Duplicator
Operator.
1. By Promotion of Office Subordinates
/Attenders(Category-17)Provided that if eligible candidates
in the category of Office Subordinates/Attenders are not
available for promotion, then upto 50% posts may be filled up by
way of direct recruitment.
Principal District Judge / Unit Head
15. (c) Lift Operator
By Promotion of office Subordinate
/Attender(Category-17).
Principal District Judge / Unit Head
16. Process Server
a) 75% by promotion of Office Subordinates /
Attenders. Category-17) b) 25% by direct recruitment.
Principal District Judge / Unit Head.
17. Office Subordinates/ Attender
By direct recruitment only.
Principal District Judge / Unit Head.
Note. - 1. The combined seniority list shall be prepared as referred supra with reference to the date of their regular
appointment to the respective categories.
Note. - 2. Cycle for Promotion of Senior Assistants.
1. Junior Assistant/Typist
2. Junior Assistant/Typist
3. Junior Assistant/Typist
4. Field Assistant
5. Junior Assistant/Typist
6. Junior Assistant/Typist
If there is no qualified and suitable member in above 06 Points Cycle at any level, the turn will lapse and the said
vacancies shall be filled by next turn in the order of rotation. No account shall be taken of any such lapsed turns in filling
future vacancies.
Cycle for Promotion of Junior Assistants.
1. Examiner/Copyist
2. Examiner/Copyist
3. Record Assistant/Roneo Duplicator Operator//Lift operator
4. Process Server
5. Examiner/Copyist
6. Examiner/Copyist
7.
Record Assistant/Roneo Duplicator Operator//Lift operator
8.
Senior Driver/Driver
9.
Examiner/Copyist
10.
Examiner/Copyist
11.
Record Assistant/Roneo Duplicator Operator//Lift operator
12.
Page 7/22
----- PAGE 8 -----
The Telangana Judicial Ministerial and Subordinate Service Rules, 2018
Process Server.
13.
Examiner/Copyist
14.
Examiner/Copyist
15.
Record Assistant/Roneo Duplicator Operator//Lift operator
16.
Process Server
If there is no qualified and suitable member in above 16 Points Cycle at any level, the turn will lapse and the said
vacancies shall be filled by next turn in the order of rotation. No account shall be taken of any such lapsed turns in filling
future vacancies.
Cycle for Promotion of Typists
1. Examiner/Copyist.
2. Examiner/Copyist.
3. Examiner/Copyist
4. Record Assistant/Roneo Duplicator Operator/Lift operator
5. Process Server
6. Record Assistant/Roneo Duplicator Operator/Lift operator
7. Examiner/Copyist
8. Examiner/Copyist
9. Examiner/Copyist
10. Record Assistant/Roneo Duplicator Operator//Lift operator
11. Process Server
12. Record Assistant/Roneo Duplicator Operator//Lift operator
13. Examiner/Copyist
14. Examiner/Copyist
15. Examiner/Copyist
16. Process Server
If there is no qualified and suitable member in above 16 Points Cycle at any level, the turn will lapse and the said
vacancies shall be filled by next turn in the order of rotation. No account shall be taken of any such lapsed turns in filling
future vacancies.
Note. - 3. The appointing authorities shall exercise their power subject to Control of the High Court.
7. Reservation of appointments.
(a)
The rule of special representation (Rule 22(A) of the Telangana State and Subordinate Service Rules, shall apply to
appointment by direct recruitment to the various posts in the service.
Provided that Roster Points 6 and 31 meant for visually handicapped and hearing handicapped candidates in a unit of
100 vacancies shall not apply in the categories of Stenographer Grade-III, Typist and Copyist, and the said categories
shall stand exempted so far as these reservations are concerned.
(b)
In the matter of direct recruitment to the posts for which women and men are equally suited, there shall be reservation
for women to the extent of 33 1/3% of the posts in each category of O.C., B.C (Group A), B.C (Group B), B.C.
(Group.C), B.C. (Group.D), and as the case may be in B.C. (Group - E), (subject to outcome of Civil Appeal
Nos.2628-2637/2010 pending before the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India) S.C, S.T., Physically Handicapped and
Ex-servicemen quotas.
7A.
Reservation In Promotions.
- The rule of reservation in the matter of promotions in favour of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes shall be
followed by applying Telangana State and Subordinate Service Rules.
8. Qualifications.
Page 8/22
----- PAGE 9 -----
The Telangana Judicial Ministerial and Subordinate Service Rules, 2018
(a)
No person shall be eligible for appointment to the categories specified in Column (1) of Annexure I to these rules by the
method specified in Column (2) unless such person possesses the qualification specified in the corresponding entry in
column (3) thereof.
(b)
Linguistic qualification. - A candidate shall not be eligible for appointment if he/she does not possess an adequate
knowledge of the language or languages of the district in which he/she is to be appointed. The language or language of
the districts is as specified in Annexure - III to these rules.
Provided that where two or more languages are specified for a district and sufficient number of candidates who have an
adequate knowledge of all the languages are not available, candidates who have an adequate knowledge of any one of
the said languages according to the needs of the district may be selected and such candidates shall be eligible for
appointment in that district.
9. Age.
- No person shall be eligible for appointment by direct recruitment if he/she has completed 34 years of age on the first
day of July of the year in which the notification for selection is made or such age as may be prescribed by the
Government of Telangana from time to time.
10. Unit of appointment.
(a)
"Except as otherwise provided herein below, the unit of appointment for the purpose of direct recruitment, transfer,
seniority, appointment as full member and discharge for want of vacancy shall be the erstwhile Revenue District existing
as on 01-10-2016.
(b)
But in the case of Hyderabad City, the unit of appointment will be the area falling within the territorial jurisdiction of the
City Civil Court, Hyderabad, the City Small Causes Court, Hyderabad and the Metropolitan Sessions Court, Hyderabad
and the Court of the Principal Special Judge for CBI Cases, Hyderabad, which includes SPE & ACB Cases and other
Special Courts at Hyderabad (shown at Rule 2(r)).
(i)
In respect of City Civil Court, the Chief Judge, City Civil Court, Hyderabad shall be the appointing authority in the Unit.
(ii)
In respect of City Small Causes Court, the Chief Judge, City Small Causes, Hyderabad, shall be the appointing authority
in the Unit.
(iii)
In respect of Metropolitan Sessions Courts, the Metropolitan Sessions Judge, Hyderabad, shall be the appointing
authority in the Unit.
(iv)
In respect of the CBI Courts, SPE & ACB Courts and other Special Courts at Hyderabad (shown at Rule 2(r)), the
Principal Special Judge for CBI Cases, Hyderabad, shall be the appointing authority in the Unit.
(c)
In respect of Special Courts constituted for adjudication of matters of any nature in the districts, the Principal District
Judge shall be the appointing authority.
11. Manner of appointment by Direct Recruitment.
- The manner of appointment by direct recruitment shall be as prescribed in Annexure-II to these rules.
12. Revision of orders promotion to selection posts.
- An order promoting a member of the service to a selection category made by a competent authority may be revised by
an authority to which an appeal would lie against an order of dismissal passed against such member. Such revision may
be made by the authority aforesaid either suo motu at any time or on a petition submitted by any person aggrieved by
the order within six months from the date of passing of such order:
Provided that the revisional authority may extend the said period of six months if cause is shown for the delay in the
submission of the petition.
13. Probation.
(a)
Page 9/22
----- PAGE 10 -----
The Telangana Judicial Ministerial and Subordinate Service Rules, 2018
Every person appointed by direct recruitment to any post in the service shall, from the date on which he/she commences
probation, be on probation for a total period of two years on duty within a continuous period of three years.
(b)
Every person appointed to any of the posts either by promotion or by transfer shall, from the date on which he/she
commences probation, be on probation for a total period of one year on duty within a continuous period of two years.
14. Probation-Suspension-Termination or Extension.
(1)
At any time before expiry of the period of probation referred to in Rule 13 or where such period of probation has been
extended under Rule 15, the appointing authority may, at any time before the expiry of the prescribed period of
probation or the extended period of probation, as the case may be:-
(i)
suspend the probation of a probationer and discharge him/her for want of a vacancy, and
(ii)
at its discretion, by an order, either extend the period of probation of the probationer in case the probation has not been
extended under Rule 17 or terminate his/her probation and discharge him/her from the service after giving him/her one
month's notice or pay in lieu of such notice:
Provided that if the termination or probation and the discharge of the probationer from service is to be made as a
measure of punishment on the ground of misconduct, negligence or any specific fault on the part of the probationer, the
procedure prescribed in Rule 19(2) read with Rule 20 of the Telangana Civil Service (Classification, Control and Appeal)
Rules, 1991, shall be followed and it shall not be necessary to give him/her one month's notice or pay in lieu of such
notice.
Explanation. - In cases where the discharge of a probationer is made reverting him/her to his/her lower officiating or
substantive post, the pay in lieu of one month's notice shall be limited to the difference in pay between the officiating
post and that of the lower officiating or substantive post to which he/she is reverted.
(2)
(i)
If a probationer has appeared within the original or extended period of probation for any tests and the results of the tests
for which he has so appeared are not known before the expiry of such period, he/she shall continue to be on probation
until the publication of the results of the tests for which he/she has appeared or the first of them in which he/she fails to
pass, as the case may be. In case the probationer fails to pass any of the probation tests for which he/she has so
appeared, the appointing authority shall forthwith, by order discharge him/her unless the period of probation is extended
under Rule 15.
(ii)
Where a probationer has, before he/she commenced his/her probation, already passed any of the special tests
prescribed, he shall not be required to pass such special tests again.
(3)
(i)
Approved Probationer: If, at the end of the period of probation or of the period of probation as extended under Rule 15,
the appointing authority considers the probationer to be suitable for full membership, it shall issue an order declaring the
probationer to have satisfactorily completed his/her period of probation. On the issue of such order, the probationer shall
be deemed to have satisfactorily completed his/her probation on the date of the expiry of the prescribed or extended
period of probation;
(ii)
Termination of Probation: If the appointing authority decides that the probationer has failed to give satisfaction in regard
to his/her suitability for full membership it shall, unless the period of probation is extended under Rule 15, by order,
discharge him/her from the service after giving him/her one month's notice or pay in lieu of such notice:
Provided that if the discharge of a probationer is as a measure of punishment on the ground of misconduct, negligence
or any specific fault on the part of the probationer, the procedure prescribed under Rule 19 (2) read with Rule 20 of the
Telangana Civil Service (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1991, shall be followed and it shall not be necessary
to give him/her one month's notice or pay in lieu of such notice.
Explanation I. - The decision of the appointing authority that the probationer has failed to give satisfaction in regard to
Page 10/22
----- PAGE 11 -----
The Telangana Judicial Ministerial and Subordinate Service Rules, 2018
his/her suitability for full membership may be based also on his/her work and conduct till the date of the decision,
inclusive of the period subsequent to the prescribed or extended period of probation.
Explanation II. - In case where the discharge of the probationer is made by reverting him/her to his/her lower officiating
or substantive post, the pay in lieu of one month's notice shall be limited to the difference in pay between the officiating
post and that of the lower officiating or substantive post to which he/she is reverted.
(iii)
Decision on declaration of probation: The decision whether a probationer is suitable for full membership or his/her
probation be extended shall be taken soon after the expiry of the prescribed period of probation, i.e., within a period of
six months after such expiry and be communicated to him/her. The appointing authority shall communicate the lapse on
the part of the probationer if any, well in advance of the expiry of the prescribed period of probation so that he/she may
rectify such lapse.
15. Extension of probation.
- In the case of any probationer falling under subrule (2) or clause (ii) of sub-rule (3) of Rule 14, the appointing authority
may extend his/her probation to enable him/her to acquire the special qualifications or pass the prescribed tests, as the
case may be, to enable the appointing authority to decide whether the probationer is suitable for full membership or not.
Such extended period of probation or the period of probation as extended under clause (ii) of sub-rule (1) of Rule 14
shall terminate at the lastest when the probationer has, after the date of expiry of the period of probation prescribed for
the class or category in which he/she is on probation, completed one year of duty in such category.
In case where the probation is extended, increments of the probationer shall be postponed until he completes his/her
probation satisfactorily within the period for which his/her probation is extended. Such postponement of increment shall
not be treated as a penalty but only as a condition of the extension of probation and shall not have the effect of
postponing future increments after he/she has passed the prescribed tests or examinations or after he/she completes
his/her probation satisfactorily.
16. Appeal against termination or probation.
(1)
A probationer who is discharged under clause (ii) or sub-rule (1) or under sub-rule (3) of Rule 14 shall be entitled to
appeal to the High Court within the period of limitation within which an appeal would lie against an order of dismissal
passed against a full member of the division or category as the case may be, to which the probationer belongs.
(2)
Revision of order of termination of probation: - The High Court may, either of its own motion or otherwise, revise any
order discharging a probationer under any of the provisions referred to in sub-rule (1) within one year of the date of such
order.
(3)
Conditions of service on restoration of discharged probationers: (i) When an order discharging a probationer is set aside
on appeal under sub-rule (1) or on revision under sub-rule (2) and the probationer is restored to the service, the period
on and from the date of discharge to the date of such restoration may be treated as duty except for purposes of
probation. The period of probation undergone by such probationer at the time of his/her discharge shall, however, count
towards the period of probation prescribed by the rules applicable to him/her.
(ii)
Such probationer may, during the period on and from the date of his/her discharge to the date of his/her restoration, be
paid such pay and allowances, not exceeding the pay and allowances to which he/she would have been entitled if
he/she had not been discharged, as the High Court may, with the previous sanction of the State Government,
determine.
17.
Discharge of probationers and approved probationers for want of vacancies.
(1)
Probationers and approved probationers may be discharged for want of vacancies in the following order:-
(i)
First, probationers in the order of juniority and
(ii)
Second, the approved probationers in order of juniority. The order of discharge may be departed from in cases where
Page 11/22
----- PAGE 12 -----
The Telangana Judicial Ministerial and Subordinate Service Rules, 2018
such order would involve excessive expenditure on travelling allowance or exceptional administrative inconvenience.
Explanation. - A member of the service who is transferred at his/her own request from one unit to another shall, for the
purpose of this sub rule, be treated as junior to all probationers appointed in the new unit prior to his/her joining that unit,
notwithstanding the fact that he/she is already an approved probationer or will complete probation earlier than the other
probationers in that unit.
(2)
Reappointment of probationers and approved probationers: Approved probationers and probationers who have been
discharged for want of vacancies shall be reappointed as vacancies arise, in the inverse order laid down in clause (i) or
(ii) or sub-rule (1).
Provided that the said order may be departed from in cases where such order would involve excessive expenditure on
travelling allowance or exceptional administrative inconvenience.
18.
Appointment of full member.
(1)
Subject to the provisions of Rule 32: an approved probationer shall be appointed to be a full member in the category for
which he/she was selected at the earliest possible opportunity in any substantive vacancy which may exist or arise in the
permanent cadre of such category and if such vacancy existed from a date previous to the issue of the order of
appointment, he/she may be so appointed with retrospective effect from such date or, as the case may be, from such
subsequent date from which he/she was continuously on duty as a member of the service in such category or in a higher
category:
Provided that, where more than one approved probationer is available for such appointment as a full member, the
senior-most approved probationer on the date of the vacancy shall be appointed;
Provided further that where, by reason of administrative convenience, a member of the service completes his/her
probation earlier than another member of the service who is senior to him/her, the member who so completes his/her
probation earlier shall not be confirmed before the member who is senior to him/her. The senior member shall be
confirmed according to his/her seniority in the service after he/she completes satisfactorily the period of his/her
probation.
Explanation. - (i) For the purposes of this sub-rule, an approved probationer on leave shall be deemed to be on duty as
a member of the service in the category concerned, if he/she would have been on duty in such category or in a higher
category but for his/her absence on leave.
(ii)
A member of the service who is transferred on his/her own request from one unit to another shall not, by reason of
having completed his/her probation earlier than the other probationers in the new unit, be confirmed before them.
(2)
No person shall, at the same time, be a full member of this and another service, State or Sub-ordinate.
A probationer, approved probationer or full member of this service who is appointed to be a full member of another
service shall cease to be a member of this service.
19.
Seniority.
(1)
The seniority of a person in a category shall, unless he/she has been reduced to a lower rank as a punishment, be
determined by the date of his/her first appointment to such category. If any portion of the service of such person does
not count towards probation under Rule 25 (4), his/her seniority shall be determined by the date of commencement of
his/her service, which counts towards probation.
(2)
After the selection process is completed, the appointing authority shall draw up the merit list of candidates selected,
including the candidates selected against reservation categories, by arranging them in accordance with their merit
rankings and shall follow the same for the purpose of determination of seniority.
(3)
The transfer of a person on administrative grounds from one category to another category carrying the same pay or
scale of pay after commencement of these Rules shall not be treated as the first appointment to the latter for purposes
Page 12/22
----- PAGE 13 -----
The Telangana Judicial Ministerial and Subordinate Service Rules, 2018
of seniority and the seniority of a person so transferred shall be determined with reference to the date of his/her first
appointment to the category from which he/she was transferred. Where any difficulty or doubt arises in applying this
sub-rule, the appointing authority shall determine seniority and such decision shall be final.
(4)
Where a member of any category is reduced, for a specified period, to a lower category :-
(a)
in cases where the reduction does not operate to postpone future increments, the seniority of such member on
re-promotion shall, unless the terms of the order of punishment provide otherwise, be fixed in the higher category at
what it would have been but for his/her reduction.
(b)
in cases where the reduction operates to postpone future increments, the seniority of such member on re-promotion
shall, unless the terms of the order of punishment provide otherwise, be fixed by giving credit for the period of service
rendered by him/her only in the higher category.
20.
Scope of application of rules.
- For the purpose of first appointment, discharge for want of vacancies, reappointment, seniority and appointment of full
members, every post or group of posts in a category for which qualification in a particular subject is prescribed shall be
deemed to be a separate category.
21.
Training.
(a)
Every person selected for appointment by direct recruitment as Junior Assistant shall undergo training for a period of not
less than four months or for such period as the High Court may prescribe from time to time.
(b)
Every person appointed to the service by direct recruitment shall, before the commencement of training, execute an
agreement bond that he/she shall serve the Department for a period of three years after the completion of training
referred to in sub-rule (a).
(c)
He/She shall be liable to refund to the Government the pay and allowances or any other remuneration received by
him/her in addition to the amount spent by the Government in his/her training:-
(i)
if he/she fails to serve the Department for a period of three years after the completion of his/her training for any reason;
or
(ii)
if he/she discontinues the training or is discharged from training for misconduct or any other reasons; or
(iii)
if he/she secures any other employment elsewhere than under the State Government.
(d)
The period of training shall count for purposes of probation, increments, leave and pension.
(e)
A direct recruit shall be eligible during the period of training for the initial pay of the post with usual allowances
admissible at the place of training.
22.
Security.
(a)
Where the State Government, by general or special order, directs that the holder(s) of any specified post or category of
posts shall deposit security for the due and faithful performance of his/her duties; and
(b)
Every person appointed to the following posts shall, for the due and faithful performance of duties attached thereto,
deposit security in the sum specified below:
(i)
Page 13/22
----- PAGE 14 -----
The Telangana Judicial Ministerial and Subordinate Service Rules, 2018
Posts in Category 1 & 2 ...... Rs. 50,000/-
(ii)
Category 3 ............. ......... Rs. 25,000/-
(iii)
Category 4 to 16 .............. Rs. 10,000/-
(c)
If within a month from the date of his/her appointment or promotion, the person concerned fails to deposit the security
required, his/her probation shall be deemed to have been terminated and the appointing authority shall forthwith, by
order, discharge him/her from the service or revert him/her to the post from which he/she was promoted, as the case
may be, unless he/she has already been otherwise discharged or reverted.
Provided that the termination of probation under this sub-rule shall not disentitle a person for promotion to any post in
the service which does not require a security and for which he/she would have been eligible for promotion otherwise
than by reason of his/her promotion or appointment to the post requiring a security.
23.
Probationer-desiring courses of study not connected with probation.
(1)
A probationer who desires to undergo any course study, which though not essentially connected with his/her probation is
likely to enhance his/her usefulness as a member of the service, may, on his/her application and subject to exigencies of
service, be permitted by the appointing authority to undergo the desired course of study. He/She shall also be granted
the entire amount of leave, if any, admissible under the rule applicable to him/her if, but for such leave, he/she would
have continued to be on duty.
(2)
Such a probationer shall, on the completion of the course of study, be entitled to appointment according to the rank and
seniority held by him/her in his/her unit in the category before undergoing the said course of study. He/She shall also be
entitled to count his/her continuous service immediately before his/her undergoing the said course of study for
increments in the time scale of pay applicable to him/her but for his/her absence from the service (whether on leave or
otherwise) for undergoing the said course of study, he/she would have continued to be on duty.
(3)
The absence of an employee as above shall be regularized in accordance with the provisions of the Fundamental Rules.
24.
Special provisions relating to Copyists and Process Establishment.
- Nothing in these rules shall affect the operation of the copyists and process establishment rules in the Civil Rules of
Practice and Circular Orders, Volume-I.
25.
Temporary Promotions.
(1)
(i)
Where it is necessary in public interest, owing to an emergency which has arisen, to fill immediately a vacancy in a post
borne on the cadre of a higher category of the service by promotion from a lower category and there would be undue
delay in making such promotion in accordance with these rules the appointing authority may promote a person
otherwise than in accordance with these rules, temporarily, until a person is promoted in accordance with these rules.
Such promotion shall not, except with the specific permission of the High Court, exceed a period of six months. The High
Court may grant such permission only for stated reasons and in very exceptional cases, without prejudice to the normal
claims of any other employees.
(ii)
A person who does not possess the qualifications prescribed for the post shall ordinarily not be promoted under clause
(i). Every person who does not possess such qualifications and who has been or is promoted under clause (i) shall be
replaced as soon as possible by promoting a person possessing such qualifications.
(2)
Where it is necessary to fill a short vacancy in a higher category in any division of the service by promotion from a lower
category and the appointment of the person who is entitled to such promotion under these rules would involve excessive
Page 14/22
----- PAGE 15 -----
The Telangana Judicial Ministerial and Subordinate Service Rules, 2018
expenditure on traveling allowance or exceptional administrative inconvenience, the appointing authority may promote
any other person who possesses the qualifications, if any, prescribed for the higher category.
(3)
A person temporarily promoted under clause (i) of sub-rule (1) shall, whether or not he/she possesses the qualification
prescribed for the post to which he/she is promoted, be replaced as soon as possible by a member of the service who is
entitled to promotion under these rules.
(4)
A person promoted under sub-rule (I) shall not be regarded as a probationer in the higher category or be entitled, by
reason only of such promotion, to any preferential claim to future promotion to such higher category. If such person is
subsequently promoted to the higher category in accordance with these rules, he/she shall commence his/her probation,
if any, in such category from the date of such subsequent promotion or from such earlier date as the appointing authority
may determine.
(5)
The appointing authority shall have the right to revert to a lower category any person promoted under sub-rule (1)(i) at
any time without assigning any reason and without notice.
26.
Transfers and postings.
(1)
The transfers and postings of persons shall ordinarily be made by the appointing authorities within the unit.
(2)
Transfer of members of the service who are full members or approved probationers from the jurisdiction of one
appointing authority to that of another shall be made by the High Court of Judicature at Hyderabad for the State of
Telangana and the State of Andhra Pradesh.
Provided that the seniority of a member who is transferred on administrative grounds shall be fixed with reference to the
date of his/her appointment in the unit from which he/she is transferred while seniority of a member transferred on
his/her own request from one Unit to another shall be fixed in the latter Unit with reference to the date of his/her
appointment in that Unit upon such transfer.
(3)
Transfers of Chief Administrative Officers from one Unit to another shall be made by the High Court of Judicature at
Hyderabad for the State of Telangana and the State of Andhra Pradesh.
(4)
It shall be competent for the High Court to combine two or more districts into one unit of appointment for purposes of
transfer and posting of personnel working in the district or units. In cases of transfer of any such personnel, the
provisions of Rule 38 of Telangana State and Subordinate Rules shall, unless specifically ordered otherwise, apply.
In cases of such combination of Units of appointment, each appointing authority may submit proposals for transfer to the
High Court, which shall pass final orders in that regard. With the concurrence of both the Unit Heads, the High Court
may transfer a candidate from one unit to the other unit.
27.
Consequences of resignation.
(a)
A member of the service shall, if he/she resigns his/her post, forego not only the service rendered by him/her in the
particular post held by him/her at the time of resignation but all his/her previous service under the Government of
Telangana or any other State Government in India.
(b)
The reappointment of such person to the service shall be treated in the same way as a first appointment to the service
by direct recruitment and all rules governing such appointment shall apply; and on such reappointment he/she shall not
be entitled to count any portion of his/her previous service for any benefit or concession admissible under any rule or
order;
Provided that nothing contained in this Rule shall affect the operation of clause (b) of Article 418 of the Civil Service
Regulations.
28.
Page 15/22
----- PAGE 16 -----
The Telangana Judicial Ministerial and Subordinate Service Rules, 2018
Military duty to count for pension.
- Notwithstanding anything in these rules and notwithstanding anything contained in the pension rules made or deemed
to be made by the State Government, a member of the service, who was deputed from military duty, shall be entitled to
count the periods spent on military duty for purpose of pension, if he/she would have counted for that purpose his/her
service in the civil department but for his/her deputation for military duty.
Explanation. - This rule shall, in its application to a member who has been or may be called to or employed in service
paid for from Defence Services Estimates, be subject to the condition specified in the letter of the Government of India,
War Department (Army Branch) to the Adjutant - General in India, No.11008/AGAINST - 14(a), dated the 11th June,
1944, recorded in G.O.Ms.No.465, Finance, dated 6th September, 1944.
29.
Reduction of full member.
- If a full member of any category in the service is subsequently reduced to a lower category, he/she shall be deemed to
be a full member of the latter and the permanent cadre thereof shall, if there is no vacancy in which he/she could be
absorbed, be deemed to be increased by one so long as such member continues therein;
Provided that against every such addition, an officiating or temporary vacancy, if any, in such lower category shall be
kept unfilled and such addition shall be absorbed in the first permanent vacancy that subsequently arises in such lower
category.
30.
Appointment in place of members dismissed, removed or reduced.
- Where a person has been dismissed, removed or reduced in rank from any category in the service, no vacancy caused
thereby or arising subsequently in such category in the service shall be subsequently filled to the prejudice of such
person except temporarily until the appeal, if any, preferred by him/her against such dismissal, removal or reduction is
decided and except in conformity with such decision, or until the time allowed for preferring an appeal has expired, as
the case may be.
31.
Relinquishment of Rights by members.
- Any person may in writing, relinquish any right or privilege to which he/she may be entitled under these rules, if, in the
opinion of the appointing authority, such relinquishment is not opposed to public interest and nothing in these rules shall
be deemed to require the recognition of any right or privilege to the extent to which it has been so relinquished.
32.
Members absent from duty.
- The absence of a member of the service from duty, whether on leave, or on foreign service or on deputation or for any
other reason and whether his/her lien in a post borne on the cadre of the service is suspended or not, shall not, if he/she
is otherwise fit, render him/her ineligible in his/her turn:
(a)
for re-appointment to a substantive or officiating vacancy in the category or post in which he/she may be a probationer
or an approved probationer.
(b)
for promotion from a lower to a higher category in the service; or
(c)
For appointment to any substantive or officiating vacancy in another service for which he/she may be an approved
candidate, as the case may be, in the same manner as if he/she had not been absent. He/She shall be entitled to all the
privileges in respect of appointment, seniority, probation and confirmation, which he/she would have enjoyed, but for
his/her absence, subject to his/her completing satisfactorily the period of probation on his/her return.
Provided that a member of the service, who is appointed to another service and is a probationer or an approved
probationer in that latter service, shall not be appointed under clause (c) to any other service for which he/she may be
an approved candidate unless he/she relinquishes his/her membership in the latter service, in which he/she is a
probationer or an approved probationer.
33.
Relaxation of Rules.
- (A) Relaxation of Rules by the Governor. - Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules, the Governor of the
Page 16/22
----- PAGE 17 -----
The Telangana Judicial Ministerial and Subordinate Service Rules, 2018
State may relax the application of the rules in relation to any member of the service or any person to be appointed to the
service.
Provided that where any such rule is applicable to the case of any person, the case shall not be dealt with in a manner
less favourable to him/her than that provided by the rules.
(B)
Relaxation of rules by the High Court. - Without prejudice to the power of the Governor under Rule 33-A, the High Court
shall also have the power to relax any of the rules and deal with the case of a member of the service holding a post
carrying a scale of pay less than that of a Junior Assistant or any person to be appointed to such post insofar as such
case relates to the service conditions governed by these rules in such manner as may appear to it to be just and
equitable.
Provided that where any such rule is applicable to the case of any member, the case shall not be dealt with in any
manner less favourable than that provided by that rule.
34.
Applicability of General Rules.
- In respect of matters, which are not covered by these rules, the provisions of the Telangana State and Subordinate
Service Rules shall apply to the members of the service.
35.
Transitory Provisions.
(a)
In case of person who are in service on the date of issue of these rules and who are eligible for promotion or transfer to
a higher post and for whom a test is now prescribed as a pre-requisite for such promotion or appointment by transfer but
for whom such test was earlier required to be passed after promotion or transfer within the period of probation, may be
promoted or transferred, even though they have not passed the tests, but shall be required to pass the test within the
prescribed period of probation for such higher post. This concession shall be in force for a period of two years from the
date of issue of these rules.
(b)
In case of persons who are in service on the date of issue of these rules and who are otherwise eligible for promotion to
the higher posts of category 2 to 7 and for whom a Graduation Qualification is now prescribed as a pre-requisite for such
promotion, may be promoted, even though they do not possess the Graduation Qualification, but they shall be required
to acquire the prescribed qualification within the period of five (5) years from the date of promotion. This concession
shall be in force for a period of three (3) years from the date of issue of these rules.
36.
Repeal and Saving.
- The Special Rules issued in G.O.Ms.No.129, Law (L.A. & J-Home-Courts-D), 12th November 2003 as amended from
time to time are hereby repealed.
Provided further that nothing in these rules shall affect the appointments made in accordance with the repealed Rules
prior to the coming into force of these rules.
Provided further that nothing in these rules shall affect the appointments made in accordance with the rules issued in
G.O.Ms.No.965 General Administration (Ser.B) Department, dated 21st October, 1995 (Andhra Pradesh Last Grade
Service Rules) and G.O.Ms.No.565 General Administration (Services B) Department, dated 24th October, 1992(Andhra
Pradesh General Subordinate Service Rules) prior to the coming into force of these rules.
Annexure- I
(See Rule 8)
Sl.No.
Category and name of the post
Method of appointment
Qualifications
1
Chief Administrative Officer
By Promotion from category 2 & 4
Must be a Graduate from any recognized
Page 17/22
----- PAGE 18 -----
The Telangana Judicial Ministerial and Subordinate Service Rules, 2018
UniversityMust have Passed prescribed Departmental Tests
i.e., Civil Judicial Test Part-I & II, Criminal Judicial
Test, Accounts Test for Subordinate Officers Part-I, and
Translation Test
2
Senior Superintendent
By promotion from category 3
Must be a Graduate from any recognized
UniversityMust have Passed prescribed Departmental Tests
i.e., Civil Judicial Test Part-I & II, Criminal Judicial
Test, Accounts Test for Subordinate Officers Part-I, and
Translation Test
3
Superintendent
By promotion from category 7
Must be a Graduate from any recognized
University.Must have Passed prescribed Departmental Tests
i.e., Civil Judicial Test Part-I & II, Criminal Judicial
Test, Accounts Test for Subordinate Officers Part-I, and
Translation Test i.e.(i).Translation from English to the Regional
Language and (ii) Translation from Regional Language to English
4
Stenographers Grade I
By promotion from category 5
Must be a Graduate from any recognized
University.
5
Stenographer Grade II
By promotion from category 6
Must be a Graduate from any recognized
University.
6
Stenographer Grade III
By direct recruitment Or By promotion from
category 8 & 9
Must be a Graduate from any recognized
University and must have passed Telangana Government technical
examination English Typewriting by higher grade and must have
passed Telangana Government Technical examination in English shorthand
by higher grade or equivalent examination.Provided that if
candidates who have passed the examination by higher grade are
not available, those who have passed the examination by the lower
grade may be considered.Must have knowledge or qualification
in computer operation.
7
Senior Assistant
By promotion from categories 8, 9 and 10
Must be a Graduate from any recognized
University.Must have Passed prescribed Departmental Tests
i.e., Civil Judicial Test Part-I & II, Criminal Judicial Test
and Accounts Test for Subordinate Officers Part-I.
Page 18/22
----- PAGE 19 -----
The Telangana Judicial Ministerial and Subordinate Service Rules, 2018
8
Junior Assistant
By direct recruitment Or By promotion
Must have passed Intermediate examination
conducted by the State Board of Intermediate Education or its
equivalent examination.Must have knowledge or qualification
in computer operation.
9
Typist
By direct recruitment Or By promotion
For direct recruitment.Must have passed
Intermediate examination conducted by the State Board of
Intermediate Education or its equivalent examination.Must
have passed Telangana Government Technical examination in English
Typewriting by higher grade qualification or its equivalent
examinationMust have knowledge or qualification in computer
operation.For promotionMust have passed Intermediate
examination conducted by the State Board of Intermediate
Education or its equivalent.Must have passed Telangana Government
Technical examination in English Typewriting by higher grade
qualification or its equivalent examination.Provided that
candidates who have passed the examination by the higher grade
are not available those who have passed the examination by the
lower grade may be considered.Must have knowledge or
qualification in computer operation.
10
Field Assistant
By direct recruitment or By promotion
Must have passed Intermediate examination
conducted by the State Board of Intermediate Education or its
equivalent examination.
11
Examiner
By direct recruitment Or By promotion
Must have passed Intermediate examination
conducted by the State Board of Intermediate Education or its
equivalent examination.
12
Copyist
By direct recruitment or By promotion
For direct recruitmentMust have passed
Intermediate examination conducted by the State Board of
Intermediate Education or its equivalent.Must have passed
Telangana Government Technical examination in English Typewriting by
higher grade qualification or its equivalent
examination.Provided that candidates who have passed the
examination by the higher grade are not available those who have
passed the examination by the lower grade may be considered.For
promotionMust have passed Intermediate examination conducted
by the State Board of Intermediate Education or its
equivalent.Must have passed Telangana Government Technical
Page 19/22
----- PAGE 20 -----
The Telangana Judicial Ministerial and Subordinate Service Rules, 2018
examination in English Typewriting by higher grade qualification
or Lower Grade qualification or its equivalent examination.
13
Senior Driver (Light Vehicle)
By Promotion only
14
Driver (Light Vehicle)
By direct recruitment or By promotion
(i) Must be able to read and write Telugu and
Urdu/Hindi or English.(ii) Must possess a current valid light
motor vehicle driving licence, issued by competent authority
under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 with practical experience in
driving Motor Vehicles for a period of not less than (3) years
with endorsement to drive Motor Cycle and Auto rickshaw.
15.(a)
Record Assistant
By Promotion or By direct recruitment.
Must have passed Intermediate conducted by the
State Board of Intermediate Examination or its equivalent
examination.
15(b)
Roneo Duplicator Operator.
By Promotion or By direct recruitment.
(i) Must have passed Intermediate examination
conducted by the State Board of Intermediate Education or its
equivalent examination.(ii) Must have undergone training in
operating Roneo Duplicators.
15(c)
Lift Operator
By promotion
(i) Must have passed SSC examination or its
equivalent examination.(ii) Must possess a Certificate issued
by the Electrical Supervisor in any Engineering Department of the
State Government to the effect that the individual has adequate
elementary knowledge of operating an electric lift and can attend
to emergencies in the operation of the lifts.
16
Process Server
By direct recruitment or By promotion
Must have passed SSC examination or its
equivalent examination.
17
Office Subordinate/Attender.
By direct recruitment only.
Must have passed 7thclass examination or its
equivalent examination. Candidates who failed 10th class will be
considered eligible, but those who have higher qualifications
than that shall not be considered eligible.
Note:  1. - A person who has appeared for the test on the date of occurrence of the vacancy in the higher post and
passed the same subsequent thereto shall be treated as qualified on the date following the date of completion of the test
or tests, if as on that date there is a vacancy in higher category remaining unfilled for want of a test qualified candidate.
Page 20/22
----- PAGE 21 -----
The Telangana Judicial Ministerial and Subordinate Service Rules, 2018
Note:  2. - A person appointed to a post in accordance with the rules applicable to him/her at the time of his/her
appointment shall not be required to acquire higher qualifications prescribed for that post subsequent to his/her
appointment.
Annexure -II
(See Rule 11)
Manner of appointment by direct recruitment. - For Stenographer Grade-III, Junior Assistants, Typists, Field Assistants,
Examiners, Copyists, Drivers (Light Vehicle), Record Assistants, Roneo Duplicator Operators, Process Servers and
Office Subordinates / Attenders.
1. The Direct Recruitment to the above said posts shall be made by way of Centralized Recruitment and such
recruitment shall be through the Public Service Commission or such other recruiting agency as may be decided upon by
the High Court and shall be made under the supervision of the High Court.
2. For such Centralized Recruitment, the State as a whole or a Group of Districts or a District may be taken as a Unit.
3. As per the recruitment schedule issued by the High Court every year, the Unit whether a State or Group of Districts or
a District, as the case may be, shall assess the vacancies in each of the categories and issue notification for recruitment
calling for applications from the eligible candidates by fixing the last date for submission of applications.
4. The Recruitment Agency, be it for the State or Group of Districts or District, as the case may be, shall conduct written
examination, Computer Based Online test or Offline OMR based examination of objective type for the eligible candidates
to test their ability.
5. The minimum qualifying marks for appearing at the interview shall be OCs.40%, B.Cs.35%, SCs, STs & PHs.30%.
6. Mere securing of minimum qualifying marks will not vest any candidate with a right to be considered for the interview /
selection.
7. The Recruitment Agency shall conduct skill test for the candidates who applied for the posts of Stenographer
Grade-III, Typist, Copyist.
Provided that the Typing test for the posts of Typist and Copyist and transcription test from shorthand to longhand will be
conducted in MS Word with use of Computers.
8. Selection of the meritorious candidates for all the vacant posts in all the categories shall be finalized separately in
accordance with the Rule of Reservation (Telangana State and Subordinate Service Rules).
9. The qualified candidates shall be interviewed in the ratio of 1:3 in each category by the Interview Board constituted by
the High Court.
10. After finalization of the merit list, the Recruiting Agency shall follow Rule of Reservation and send final merit list in
the ratio of 1:2 to the High Court for its approval.
11. After approval of the list of selected candidates by the High Court, the candidates will be allotted to the District
concerned for issue of appointment orders by the Unit Head of the concerned District Court, after following the due
procedure.
Annexure-III
(See Rule 8(b))
District
Language
Hyderabad
Telugu and Urdu/Hindi
Adilabad
Telugu, Urdu / Hindi and Marati
Karimnagar
Telugu and Urdu/Hindi
Khammam
Telugu and Urdu/Hindi
Mahabubnagar
Telugu and Urdu/Hindi
Medak
Telugu and Urdu/Hindi
Nalgonda
Page 21/22
----- PAGE 22 -----
The Telangana Judicial Ministerial and Subordinate Service Rules, 2018
Telugu and Urdu/Hindi
Nizamabad
Telugu and Urdu/Hindi
Warangal
Telugu and Urdu/Hindi
Ranga Reddy
Telugu and Urdu/Hindi
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 22/22