
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Telangana State Energy Conservation Fund Rules, 2018
The Telangana State Energy Conservation Fund Rules, 2018
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/137478330/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Telangana - Act
The Telangana State Energy Conservation Fund Rules, 2018
TELENGANA
India
The Telangana State Energy Conservation Fund Rules, 2018
Rule THE-TELANGANA-STATE-ENERGY-CONSERVATION-FUND-RULES-2018 of 2018
Published on 15 February 2018
Commenced on 15 February 2018
[This is the version of this document from 15 February 2018.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Telangana State Energy Conservation Fund Rules, 2018
Published vide Notification No. G.O.Ms. No.04, Energy (Budget) Department, dated 15.2.2018
G.O.Ms. No.04, Energy (Budget) Department, dated 15.2.2018. - In exercise of the powers conferred by section 57 read
with section 16 of the Energy Conservation Act, 2001 (Central Act 52 of 2001), the Government of Telangana hereby
makes the following Rules for Constitution and Regulation of Telangana State Energy Conservation Fund:-
1.
Short title and Commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Telangana State Energy Conservation Fund Rules, 2018.
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Telangana State Gazette.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Telangana State Energy Conservation Fund Rules, 2018
2.
Definitions.
- in these rules, unless the context otherwise requires:-
(a)
" Act" means the Energy Conservation Act , 2001 (Central Act 52 of 2001);
(b)
"Telangana State Energy Conservation Fund" means the Fund established under Section 16 of the Act;
(c)
"Government" means Government of Telangana;
(d)
"section" means a section of the Act; and
(e)
all other words and expressions used herein and not defined but defined in the Act, shall have the meanings
respectively assigned to them in the Act.
3.
Constitution of Telangana State Energy Conservation Fund.
(1)
The fund constituted under this rule shall be administered by the State Designated Agency as notified under clause (d)
of section 15 of the Act through P.D. Account.
(2)
Proceeds of the fund shall be utilized for the purpose of promotion and efficient use of energy and its conservation in the
State of Telangana.
(3)
The fund shall be credited all grants and loans that may be made by the Government of Telangana or Central
Government or any other State Government or Quasi Central/ State Government Organisation or Central/State Public
Sector undertakings or any individual or any corporate body.
4.
Purpose for which the fund shall be applied.
(1)
To meet the expenditure incurred by the Designated Agency to take all measures to create awareness and disseminate
information for efficient use of energy and its conservation and for undertaking awareness programme for consumers,
industrial & commercial sectors, school children, farmers and others;
(2)
To meet the expenditure incurred by the Designated Agency for training of personnel and specialists for efficient use of
energy and its conservation;
(3)
For promotion of Research & Development in the field of energy conservation;
(4)
To develop testing and certification procedure, in creation of testing facilities for certification or verification testing for
energy consumption of equipments and appliances;
(5)
To formulate implementation of Pilot projects and demonstration projects for promotion of efficient use of energy and its
conservation or to provide matching contribution for such projects taken up by Bureau of Energy Efficiency;
(6)
To promote the use of energy efficient processes from the equipments, devices and systems;
(7)
To meet the matching grant to the centrally sponsored schemes and schemes of Bureau of Energy Efficiency
implemented in the State of Telangana;
(8)
To meet the expenses incurred by the Designated Agency For implementing the provisions of the Act
5.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Telangana State Energy Conservation Fund Rules, 2018
Operation of the Fund.
(1)
The designated Agency is notified under clause (d) of section 15 of the Act shall operate the fund;
(2)
Expenditure for any item in excess of Rs.5.00 lakes shall be incurred with the prior approval of State Level Steering
Committee for Energy Conservation as constituted by Government of Telangana from time to time;
(3)
Any expenditure below Rs.5.00 lakhs or as fixed by Government from time to time shall be incurred by the Designated
Agency and the Designated Agency shall furnish the details of such expenditure on quarterly basis to the State Level
Steering Committee or at such other interval as prescribed by Government of Telangana;
(4)
The Designated Agency shall maintain accounts for the fund and shall furnish the Income and Expenditure to the above
state Level Steering Committee on quarterly basis or at such other interval as prescribed by Government of Telangana
from time to time.
(5)
The Vice Chairman & Managing Director, Telangana State Renewable Energy Development Corporation Ltd.
(TSREDCO) shall take necessary further action accordingly.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3