
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Tripura in-Service Teachers Post-Graduate Study (Deputation and Award of Stipend) Rule...
The Tripura in-Service Teachers Post-Graduate Study (Deputation
and Award of Stipend) Rules, 1981
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/156306225/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Tripura - Act
The Tripura in-Service Teachers Post-Graduate Study (Deputation and Award of Stipend) Rules, 1981
TRIPURA
India
The Tripura in-Service Teachers Post-Graduate Study (Deputation and Award of Stipend) Rules, 1981
Rule
THE-TRIPURA-IN-SERVICE-TEACHERS-POST-GRADUATE-STUDY-DEPUTATION-AND-AWARD-OF-STIPEND-RUL
ES-1981 of 1981
Published on 3 July 1981
Commenced on 3 July 1981
[This is the version of this document from 3 July 1981.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Tripura in-Service Teachers Post-Graduate Study (Deputation and Award of Stipend) Rules, 1981
Published vide Notification Tripura Gazette, Extraordinary No. 112 dated 3rd July, 1981 at pages 1 to 4
Last Updated 18th February, 2020
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Tripura In-service Teachers Post Graduate Study (Deputation and Award of Stipend)
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Tripura in-Service Teachers Post-Graduate Study (Deputation and Award of Stipend) Rule...
Rules, 1981.
2.
Application.
- These rules shall be applicable to both the Government and non-Government aided school teachers.
3.
Eligibility.
- To be eligible for deputation for study in the Post-Government, Centre, Agartala, a teacher-
(i)
shall have to be graduate,
(ii)
shall have to render at least 3 years regular service in a school,
(iii)
shall not be a teacher already deputed for B.Ed. training in there same year.
4.
Number of teachers to be deputed.
- The number of teachers to be deputed under these rules in a year in any subject shall be decided by the Director of
School Education :
Provided that where there is acute shortage of teachers in any subject the deputation of study under these rules shall
not be made.
5.
Duration of study.
- The duration of the deputation will be normally for two years, unless the duration of course is changed by the Calcutta
University. However, the deputation will be made for year to year basis.
6.
Rate of stipend, financial implication.
- A teacher deputed for study under these rules hall be entitled to-
(i)
a stipend @ Rs. 90 per month during the course except the Summer and Puja Vacations ; and
(ii)
usual pay and allowances and also travelling allowances for joining the course and back as per normal rules ;
(iii)
no stipend in a month shall be allowed, if any leave enjoyed by the teacher deputed for the course exceeds 15 days in
that month.
7.
Mode of application.
(1)
The in-service teacher of both Government and non-Government schools shall apply for admission to the Calcutta
University Post-Graduate Centre, Agartala according to the advertisement or otherwise circulated by he Calcutta
University, Post Graduate Centre, Agartala or by the Director of School Education, Government of Tripura, Agartala.
(2)
The applications under sub-rule (1) shall be submitted through the Director of School Education, Government of Tripura.
8.
Selection.
- The selection of candidates for admission to the Post Graduate Centre, Agartala from amongst the in-service teachers
sponsored by the Education Department will exclusively be made by the Calcutta University Post Graduate Centre,
Agartala according to the norms of Calcutta University.
9.
Bond.
- (i) A bond is to be executed by the teacher deputed from Government schools to the effect that he shall serve the
Government of Tripura as teacher for a period of 5 (five) years after completion of the course. He shall have to pass the
course successfully within 2 (two) consecutive academic years after completion of the course and shall be liable for his
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Tripura in-Service Teachers Post-Graduate Study (Deputation and Award of Stipend) Rule...
failure to do so to refund to the Government the money paid to him in the shape of stipend, travelling allowances etc.
Consequent loss of the Government money as aforesaid shall be recovered from him in 12 (twelve) equal monthly
instalments.
(ii)
A bond is to be executed by the teacher deputed from non-Government (aided) schools to the effect that the will serve
as teacher in any aided school/Government school under the Government of Tripura for a period of 5 (five) years after
completion of the course. He shall have to pass the course successfully within two consecutive academic years after
completion of the course and shall be liable for his failure to do so to refund to the Government the money paid to him in
the shape of stipend, travelling allowances etc. Consequent loss of Government money as aforesaid shall be recovered
from him in 12 (twelve) equal monthly instalments by the Managing Committee of the school and deposited to Treasury
under proper Head of Account.
10.
(i)
After passing the examination a teacher deputed for the course of study from the Government Schools shall have to
serve the Government of Tripura as teacher, if so required for at least 5 (five) years failing which he will be liable to
refund to the Government all money paid to him during the period of the course in the shape of pay and allowances,
spend and in respect of Travelling Allowance etc. together with interest thereon @ Rs. 3½% per annum calculated from
the date of actual payment till payment thereof on pro rata basis.
(ii)
After passing the examination a teacher deputed for the course from non-Government aided schools shall have to serve
as teacher in an aided school/Government school under the Government of Tripura for at least 5 (five) years failing
which he will be liable to refund to Government all money paid to him during the period of course in the shape of stipend,
pay and allowances, Travelling Allowances together with interest thereon @ Rs. 3½% per annum calculated from the
date of actual payment till payment thereof on pro rata basis. The Managing Committee of the respective school will
cause recovery of the said amount and deposit the same to the Treasury under proper Head of Account.
11.
Exemption.
- Exemption from the course will be allowed only on medical ground. In the event of any exemption allowed money paid
to him in he shape of stipend and T.A. will be recovered from the exemptee.
12.
Power to relax.
- Where the State Government is of opinion that it is necessary or expedient so to do it may by order for reasons to be
recorded in writing relax any of the proviso of these rules with respect to any class of persons.
13.
Interpretation.
- If any question arises as to the interpretation of these rules, the same shall be decided by the State Government in the
Education Department, Government of Tripura.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3