
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Tripura Factories (Safety Officers) Rules, 1984
The Tripura Factories (Safety Officers) Rules, 1984
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/16257998/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Tripura - Act
The Tripura Factories (Safety Officers) Rules, 1984
TRIPURA
India
The Tripura Factories (Safety Officers) Rules, 1984
Rule THE-TRIPURA-FACTORIES-SAFETY-OFFICERS-RULES-1984 of 1984
Published on 2 January 1985
Commenced on 2 January 1985
[This is the version of this document from 2 January 1985.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Tripura Factories (Safety Officers) Rules, 1984
Published vide Notification No. CIF/7 (21)/SO/83/5682, dated the 2nd January, 1985, in the Tripura Gazette, No 35,
dated 21-2-1985
Last Updated 18th February, 2020
Notification No. CIF/7 (21)/SO/83/5682, dated the 2nd January, 1985. - In exercise of the powers conferred by Section
112 read with sub-section (2) of Section 40-B of the Factories Act, 1948 (No. 63 of 1948), the Government of Tripura
hereby make the following Rules, the same having been previously published in the Tripura Gazette on 8-10-1984 under
this Department Notification No. CIF/7(21)/SO/83/4629, dated 11-9-1984 as required by Section 115 of the said Act.
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
Page 1/6
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Tripura Factories (Safety Officers) Rules, 1984
These rules may be called "the Tripura Factories (Safety Officers) Rules, 1984".
(2)
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires-
(a)
"the Act" means the Factories Act, 1948 (63 of 1948);
(b)
"Safety Officer" means a Safety Officer appointed under Section 40-B of the Act and includes the Chief Safety Officer;
(c)
"section" means a section of the Act.
3.
Qualifications.
- A person shall not be eligible for appointment as a Safety Officer unless he-
(a)
possesses a degree of a recognised University or its equivalent in any branch of engineering or technology with two
years' experience in a position of supervision or management in a factory in either the production or the maintenance of
the safety department, or degree in Science with Physics and Chemistry of a recognised University with five years'
experience in a position of supervision or management in a factory in either the production or the maintenance of the
safety department, or a diploma in any branch of engineering or technology recognised by the State Government with
five years' experience in a position of supervision or management in a factory in either the production or the
maintenance of the safety department;
(b)
possesses a degree or diploma or certificate in industrial safety recognised by the State Government;
(c)
has thorough knowledge of Bengali acquired through an institution under a Board of Secondary Education or affiliated to
a University or recognised by the State Government;
(d)
has qualified at a viva voce test conducted by a Board constituted by the Factories, Organisation, Labour Department,
Government of Tripura, for the purpose;
(e)
can speak Hindi; and
(f)
is not less than 23 years of age :
Provided that the Chief Inspector of Factories, Tripura may exempt from the requirement of Clause (b) of this rule any
person-
(i)
who has at least five years' experience in a department of the Central or a State Government which deals with the
administration of the Factories Act, 1948 (63 of 1948), or the Indian Dock Labourers Act, 1934 (19 of 1934), or
(ii)
who has at least five years' experience on a full-time basis in training or education or consultancy or research in the field
of accident prevention in any industry or in any institution :
Provided further that the Chief Inspector of Factories, Tripura, may exempt from all or any of the prescribed
qualifications any person who has been working as a Safety Officer in any factory for a period of not less than three
years on the date of commencement of these rules and who, in his opinion, possesses the requisite practical experience
to serve as a safety Officer.
4.
Power to relax.
- The Chief Inspector of Factories, Tripura, may relax, subject to such conditions as may be specified, the qualification
prescribed in Clause (c) of Rule 4 in case of persons already in service on the date of commencement of these rules as
Page 2/6
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Tripura Factories (Safety Officers) Rules, 1984
Safety Officers in factories.
5.
Notice of appointment and filling up of vacancy.
(1)
The occupier of a factory shall notify the appointment of a Safety Officer, within seven days from the date of
appointment, to the Chief Inspector of Factories, Tripura giving full details of qualifications, age, terms and conditions of
service.
(2)
Any vacancy in the post of a Safety Officer caused by the death, termination of service or resignation of a Safety Officer
or by any other reason shall be filled up within three months of the occurrence of the vacancy.
6.
Number of Safety Officers.
- Every factory in the State wherein one thousand or more workers are ordinarily employed, the occupier shall employ
such number of Safety Officers as specified in column 3 of the Schedule hereto for the number of workers mentioned
against them in column 2 thereof :
Schedule
Serial No.
Number of workers ordinarily employed
Number of Safety Officers
1.
1,000 but not exceeding 3,000
1
2.
Above 3,000 but not exceeding 6,000
2
3.
Above 6,000 but not exceeding 15,000
3
4.
Above 15,000
4
7.
Conditions of service.
(1)
Where the number of Safety Officers to be appointed in a factory exceeds one, one of them shall be designated as the
Chief Safety Officer and shall have a status higher than that of the others. The Chief Safety Officer shall be in over all
charge of the safety functions as envisaged in Rule 8 and all other Safety Officers shall work under his control.
(2)
The Chief Safety Officer, or the Safety Officer in the case of a factory where only one Safety Officer is required to be
appointed, shall be given the same status as that of other departmental heads in the factory and he shall work directly
under the control of the same executive of the factory under whom other departmental heads work. Every other Safety
Officer shall be given appropriate status corresponding to the status of an officer holding a position next below other
departmental heads in the factory.
Any confusion or dispute, if arises, regarding fixation of status of the Chief Safety Officer or the Safety Officer shall be
referred to the Chief Inspector of Factories by the occupier and the decision of the Chief Inspector of Factories in this
regard shall be final.
(3)
The Chief Safety Officer or a Safety Officer may be employed either on a tenure basis or on a permanent basis. Where
he is appointed on a tenure basis, the term shall not ordinarily be less than three years renewable from time to time and
the period of probation shall be six months and where the appointment is on a permanent basis, the period of probation
shall not be less than one year or more than two years.
Page 3/6
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Tripura Factories (Safety Officers) Rules, 1984
(4)
The occupier of a factory who proposes either to terminate the service of a Safety Officer or to withhold the renewal of
contract, as aforesaid, shall give three months notice to such Officer stating reasons thereof and giving a reasonable
opportunity of making representation, against such notice. The final decision shall be taken by the occupier of such
factory only after giving due consideration to such representation.
(5)
(a)
The occupier of a factory may impose upon any Safety Officer any one or more of the following penalties, namely :
(i)
suspension,
(ii)
removal or dismissal from service,
(iii)
reduction in rank,
(iv)
withholding of increment (including stoppage at an efficiency bar),
(v)
ensure,
(vi)
warning:
Provided that no order imposing any such penalty on a Safety Officer shall be made except after an inquiry in which he
has been informed of the charges against him and given a reasonable opportunity of being heard in respect of such
charges, and where it is proposed, after such enquiry, to impose on him any such penalty, until, until he has been given
a reasonable opportunity of making representation against the penalty proposed, but only on the basis of the evidence
adduced during such inquiry.
(b)
Any Safety Officer on whom any penalty has been imposed under sub-rule (a) may, within thirty days of the
communication of the order of imposition of the penalty to him, appeal against such order to the Chief Inspector of
Factories, Tripura, whose decision thereon shall be final and binding on both the occupier of the factory and the Safety
Officer.
(c)
On being satisfied that a Safety Officer intends to prefer an appeal under Clause (b) of this sub-rule, the Chief Inspector
Factories, Tripura may stay the enforcement of the order to be appealed against, for such period and on such terms, if
any, as he may think just and proper.
(d)
The Chief Inspector or Factories, Tripura, shall, by an order, after giving both the parties a reasonable opportunity of
being heard and for reasons to be recorded in writing, dispose of the appeal as expeditiously as possible. While
disposing of the appeal, the Chief Inspector of Factories, Tripura, may confirm, modify or set aside the order appealed
against.
(6)
An appeal shall lie to the State Government against the order of the occupier of the factory under sub-rule (4), or of the
Chief Inspector of Factories, Tripura, under Clause (d) of sub-rule (5), of this rule within thirty days from the date of the
order :
Provided that on an application of the appellant assigning satisfactory reasons, the State Government may extend the
above period of thirty days for preferring the appeal by a period not exceeding sixty days in any case.
(7)
The scale of pay and allowances to be granted to the Safety Officers including the Chief Safety Officer and other
conditions of their service shall be the same as those of other officers of corresponding status in the factory.
Any dispute or confusion, if arises, regarding the corresponding status in finalising the pay etc. or for any other purpose
of the Chief Safety Officer or the Safety Officer, shall be referred to the Chief Inspector of Factories whose decision shall
be final in this matter.
Page 4/6
----- PAGE 5 -----
The Tripura Factories (Safety Officers) Rules, 1984
(8)
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any contract of employment of any existing Safety Officer, the
provisions of this rule shall apply.
8.
Duties of Safety Officers.
(1)
The duties of a Safety Officer shall be to advise and assist the factory management in the fulfilment of obligations,
statutory or otherwise, concerning prevention of personal injuries and maintaining a safe working environment.
(2)
Without prejudice to the generality of the provisions of sub-rule (1), such duties may include-
(i)
to advise the concerned departments in planning and organising measures necessary for the effective control of
personal injuries and industrial diseases;
(ii)
to advise on safety aspects of all jobs and to carry out detailed job safety analysis of selected jobs;
(iii)
to carry out safety inspections in order to identify unsafe plan or equipment and hazardous conditions of work, and carry
out safety observation to identify unsafe work, practices and procedures followed by workers, and to suggest measures
to be adopted for remedying defects found;
(iv)
to advise and assist on matters relating to carrying out safety inspections and safety observations by concerned
departments;
(v)
to design and conduct, either independently or in collaboration with the training department, suitable training and
educational programmes for all levels in the organisation and specifically for the supervisory staff for the prevention of
personal injuries and industrial diseases;
(vi)
to check and evaluate the effectiveness of the section taken or proposed to be taken to prevent personal injuries and
industrial diseases;
(vii)
to advise the purchasing and store departments on the availability and the specifications of any new machinery, plant,
appliance or equipment, including personal protective equipment, to be installed or used in the factory in order to ensure
high standard of safety and protection of health of the employees;
(viii)
to advise concerned departments on matters relating to reporting and investigating the causes of industrial accidents
and diseases;
(ix)
to investigate into causes and circumstances of every fatal, serious and selected accident and dangerous occurrence,
compile necessary reports and render advice to prevent their recurrence;
(x)
to investigate into the cases of every industrial diseases;
(xi)
to promote setting up safety committees and act as adviser and catalyst to such committees;
(xii)
to organise, in collaboration with the concerned departments, campaigns, competitions, contests and order activities
which will develop and maintain the interest of the workers in establishing and maintaining safe conditions of work and
procedures;
(xiii)
to advise on the maintenance of records as are necessary relating to accidents, dangerous occurrences and industrial
diseases, and present information in appropriate form for the use of management and others in assessing safety
performance;
Page 5/6
----- PAGE 6 -----
The Tripura Factories (Safety Officers) Rules, 1984
(xiv)
to maintain liaison with other departments in the factory, including medical and training departments, and with the
Directorate of Factories Organization, Fire Services, Local authorities and other organisation engaged in the promotion
of industrial safety.
9.
Facilities to be provided to Safety Officers.
- The occupier of a factory shall provide each Safety Officer with such facilities, equipment and information as are
necessary to enable him to discharge his duties effectively.
10.
Prohibition of performance of other duties.
(1)
No Safety Officer shall be required or allowed to do any work which is inconsistent with or detrimental to, the
performance of the duties prescribed in Rule 8.
(2)
If the Chief Inspector of Factories, Tripura, is of opinion that a Safety Officer is being required or allowed by the occupier
of a factory to do work which is inconsistent with, or detrimental to, the performance of his duties prescribed under Rule
8, he may, by an order for reasons to be recorded in writing, direct that such Safety Officer shall not be required or
allowed to do such work.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 6/6