
----- PAGE 1 -----
Tripura Educational Institutions (Prevention of Ragging) Act, 1990
Tripura Educational Institutions (Prevention of Ragging) Act, 1990
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/161749366/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Tripura - Act
Tripura Educational Institutions (Prevention of Ragging) Act, 1990
TRIPURA
India
Tripura Educational Institutions (Prevention of Ragging) Act, 1990
Act 12 of 1990
Published on 10 September 1990
Commenced on 10 September 1990
[This is the version of this document from 10 September 1990.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Tripura Educational Institutions (Prevention of Ragging) Act, 1990
(Tripura Act No. 12 of 1990)
Last Updated 10th June, 2020
[Dated 10.09.1990]
An Act to prevent and eradicate the menace of ragging from the Educational Institutions situated in the State of Tripura.
Be it enacted by the Tripura Legislative Assembly in the Forty first Year of the Republic of India as follows :-
1.
Short title, extent and commencement.
(1)
This Act may be called the Tripura Educational Institution (Prevention of Ragging Act) 1990.
(2)
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
Tripura Educational Institutions (Prevention of Ragging) Act, 1990
It extends to the whole of Tripura.
(3)
It shall come into force at once.
2.
Application of the Act.
- This Act shall apply to all the Educational Institutions situated in the State of Tripura whether or not they are
Government or private Institutions.
3.
Definition.
- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, Ragging will mean the following kind of offence :-
Whoever, being a student in any Educational Institution, causes a fellow student to suffer physically or mentally by way
of assault, intimidation. insult, tease, torment or any other form of torture commits ragging.
4.
Punishment.
- Whoever commits ragging shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to
four years or with fine or with both.
5.
Procedure.
- The offences of ragging shall be cognizable and non-bailable.
6.
Establishment of courts.
- The State Government may establish one or more special courts exclusively for trial of the cases under this Act and
such courts may be  presided over by a Judicial Magistrate or a special Judicial Magistrate  appointed under section 13
of the Criminal Procedure Code.
7.
Disqualification for remaining as a student.
- Whoever, being a student in any Educational Institution, has been convicted under section 5, shall cease to be a
student of that Institution and shall be deemed to have been expelled from the Institution with effect from date of his
conviction.
8.
Eviction from hostel.
- During any investigation or trial of an offence under this Act no accused, o has been living in any hostel of the
Institution, shall be entitled to continue his stay in that hostel.
9.
On a prayer made in this behalf by the Investigating, Officer the special Court shall issue a direction to evict the accused
from the hostel if ilk does not leave the hostel voluntarily at the commencement of the investigation or trial.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2