
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Uttarakhand Entertainments and Betting (Second) (Amendment) Act, 2015
The Uttarakhand Entertainments and Betting (Second) (Amendment)
Act, 2015
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/81613209/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Uttarakhand - Act
The Uttarakhand Entertainments and Betting (Second) (Amendment) Act, 2015
UTTARAKHAND
India
The Uttarakhand Entertainments and Betting (Second) (Amendment) Act, 2015
Act 27 of 2015
Published on 1 January 2015
Commenced on 1 January 2015
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 2015.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Uttarakhand Entertainments and Betting (Second) (Amendment) Act, 2015
(Uttarakhand Act
No. 27 of 2015
)
An Act Further to amend the Uttar Pradesh Entertainment and  Betting Tax Act, 1979 (as applicable to the State of 
Uttarakhand) to the context of the  State of Uttarakhand.
It is hereby enacted by the Uttarakhand Assembly in the Sixty-sixth Year of the Republic of India as follows -
1.
Short title and commencement.
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Uttarakhand Entertainments and Betting (Second) (Amendment) Act, 2015
(1)
This Act may be called the Uttarakhand Entertainments and Betting Tax (Second) (Amendment) Act, 2015.
(2)
It shall come into force at once.
2.
Amendment of sub-section (g) of section 2.
- Clause (g) of section 2 of the Uttar Pradesh Entertainment and Betting tax Act, 1979 as shall be amended as follows,
namely-
Entertainment includes Direct to Home Broadcasting Service (D.T.H.) and any exhibition performance, amusement ride
of carries of such aerial ropeway where alternative route (by whatever name it is called) to reach the destination of such
carries, Bowling Alley, Water Sports, Puppet Show, Giant Wheel, game of Skill, Video Games, Paddleboat, Joy Ride in
aeroplan, Hot Air gas Ballooning, Paragliding etc. game, sport or race (including horse race), River Rafting to which
person are admitted for payment and in the case of cinematograph exhibition, includes exhibition of news reel,
documentaries, cartoon, advertisement, shorts of slides, whether before or during the exhibition of a feature film or
separately.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2