
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Uttarakhand Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens (Amendment) Rules, ...
The Uttarakhand Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior
Citizens (Amendment) Rules, 2015
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/79444685/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Uttarakhand - Act
The Uttarakhand Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens (Amendment) Rules, 2015
UTTARAKHAND
India
The Uttarakhand Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens (Amendment) Rules, 2015
Rule
THE-UTTARAKHAND-MAINTENANCE-AND-WELFARE-OF-PARENTS-AND-SENIOR-CITIZENS-AMENDMENT-RULE
S-2015 of 2015
Published on 6 November 2015
Commenced on 6 November 2015
[This is the version of this document from 6 November 2015.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Uttarakhand Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens (Amendment) Rules, 2015
Publication No. 15/17-2/15-01(14)/2008-TC, dated November 6, 2015, Published in the Uttarakhand Gazette,
Extraordinary, Part 4, Section (Kha) dated 6th November, 2015, pp.3-4
In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution of India, the Governor is pleased to
make the following rules with a view to amend the Uttarakhand Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens
Rules, 2011:-
1.
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Uttarakhand Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens (Amendment) Rules, ...
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Uttarakhand Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens (Amendment)
Rules, 2015.
(2)
They Shall come into force at once.
2.
Amendment of Rule 21.
- In the Principal rules for the existing Rule 21 the following rule, shall be substituted, namely-
21.
Welfare Council of Seniority Citizens. - (1) The State Government may, by order, constitute a Welfare Council of senior
citizens to advise the State Government on effective implementation of the Act and to perform such other functions in
relation to senior citizens as the State Government may specify.
(2)
The Welfare Council shall consist of the following members, namely-
(a)
Chairperson - Activists in the field of Welfare of Senior Citizens to be Nominated by the State Government; (status as
state minister)
(b)
Vice Chairman(Three) - Activists in the field of welfare of senior Citizena, as the State Government may determine, to be
nominated by the State Government;
(c)
Members - Such number of specialists and activists in the filed of Welfare of senior citizen, as the State Government
may determine, to be nominated by the State Government;
(d)
Members - Such member of eminent senior citizens, as the State Government may determine, but not less in number
than the Vice-Chairman members in the Council, to be nominated by the State Government;
(e)
Member Secretary - Director, Senior Citizens Welfare of the State.
(3)
The Welfare Council shall meet at least once in six months.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2