
----- PAGE 1 -----
Societies Registration (Uttarakhand Amendment) Act, 2019
Societies Registration (Uttarakhand Amendment) Act, 2019
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/66022907/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Uttarakhand - Act
Societies Registration (Uttarakhand Amendment) Act, 2019
UTTARAKHAND
India
Societies Registration (Uttarakhand Amendment) Act, 2019
Act 4 of 2019
Published on 1 January 2019
Commenced on 1 January 2019
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 2019.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Societies Registration (Uttarakhand Amendment) Act, 2019
(Uttarakhand Act
4 of 2019
)
Last Updated 9th July, 2019
An Act further to amend the Societies Registration Act, 1860 (Act 21 of 1860), in its application to the State of
Uttarakhand
It is hereby enacted by the Uttarakhand State Legislative Assembly in the Seventieth Year of the Republic of India as
follows -
1.
Short title, extent and commencement.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Societies Registration (Uttarakhand Amendment) Act, 2019
(1)
This Act may be called the Societies Registration (Uttarakhand Amendment) Act, 2019.
(2)
It extends to the whole of the State of Uttarakhand.
(3)
It shall come into force at once.
2.
Substitution of Section 1.
- In Socieites Registration Act, 1860, (which is hereinafter referred to as Principal Act) the Section 1 shall be substituted
as follows, namely -
"1. Societies formed by memorandum of association and registration. - Any seven or more persons associated for any
literary, scientific or chariatable purpose, or for any such purpose as is described in Section 20 of the Act, may, by digital
signature of their name in online form of Memorandum of Association and rules filing the same online with the Registrar
form themselves into a society under this Act.".
3.
Amendment of Section 3.
- In principal Act sub-section (1) of Section 3 shall be substituted as follows, namely -
"3. Registration and fees. - (1) Upon such memorandum and its digitally signed copy being filed alongwith particulars of
the address of Society office which will be registered address, by the Secretary of the Society on behalf of the persons
subscribing to the meorandum, the Registrar shall certify under his digital signature that the society is registered under
this Act. For every such registration fees of five thousand five hundred and fifty rupees shall be paid to Registrar. For
every such registration for Youth/Women Mangal Dal, Women Group/Community Group fees of fifty rupees shall be
paid.
Provided further that the State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, increase from time to time the fee
payble under this sub-section.
Provided further that the Registrar may, in his discretion, issue public offline notice or issue offline notices to such
persons ,as he thinks fit inviting offline objections, if any against the proposed registration and consider all objections
that may be received by him before registering the society.
The prescribed fee of registration shall be submitted online after the online approval of registration by the Registrar.
After depositing the prescribed fees, the digitally signed Society Registration Certificate shall be downloaded by the
applicant."
4.
Insertion of Section 5-A.
- In principal Act after Section 5 the following section shall be inserted, namely -
"5A. Restriction on transfer of property. - (l) Notwithstanding anything contained in any law, contract or other instrument,
it shall not be lawful for the governing body of a society registered under this Act or any of its members to transfer,
without the previous approval of the court, any immovable property belonging to any such society.
(2)
Every transfer made in contravention of sub-section (1) shall be void.
Explanation I. - For the purposes of this section the word 'court' shall have the meaning assigned to it in Section 13.
Explanation II. - For the purposes of this section the word 'transfer' means -
(d)
a mortgage, charge, sale, gift or exchange.
(e)
lease for term exceeding five years; or
(f)
irrevocable licence."
5.
Substitution of Section 19.
- In principal Act Section 19 shall be substituted as follows, namely -
"19. Inspection of documents, Certified copies. - Any person may inspect all document files with the Registrar under this
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Societies Registration (Uttarakhand Amendment) Act, 2019
Act on payment of a fee of three hundred rupees for each inspection; and any person may require a digitally signed copy
or extract of any documents or any part of any documents, to be digitally certified by the Registrar on payment of
Rupees One hundred as ordinary fee and Rupees Two hundred as urgent fee for every A4 size page of such copy or
extract and such digital signed copy shall be prima facie evidence of the matters therein contained in all legal
proceedings whatever.
Provided further that the State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, increase from time to time the fee
payble under this sub-section.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3