
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Bengal Alluvion and Diluvion Regulation, 1825
The Bengal Alluvion and Diluvion Regulation, 1825
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/115556944/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Uttar Pradesh - Act
The Bengal Alluvion and Diluvion Regulation, 1825
UTTAR PRADESH
India
The Bengal Alluvion and Diluvion Regulation, 1825
Act 11 of 1825
Published on 26 May 1825
Commenced on 26 May 1825
[This is the version of this document from 26 May 1825.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Bengal Alluvion and Diluvion Regulation, 1825
(Bengal Regulation No. 11 of 1825)
Short title given by Act V of 1897, Section 3 (c) of the Oudh Laws Act, 1876 (Act XVIII of 1876) infra, declared the Reg.
to be one of the Laws to be administered by the Court in Oudh.
[Passed by the Governor-General in Council on the 26th May, 1825]
A Regulation for declaring the rules to be observed in determining Claims to Lands gained by Alluvion, or by Dereliction
of a River, or the Sea.
Extension of Application - The Act was enforced in the merged States of Rampur on December 30, 1949, by Act No. XII
of 1950 and in the States of Banares and Tehri Garhwal by Benares (Application of Laws) Order, 1949 and Tehri
Garhwal (Application of Laws) Order, 1949 from November 30, 1949.
1.
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Bengal Alluvion and Diluvion Regulation, 1825
Preamble.
- In consequence of the frequent changes which take place in the channel of the principal rivers that intersect the
[territories]
[Substituted by the A.O. 1950 for 'Provinces'.]
immediately subject to the Presidency of Fort William, and the shifting of the sands which lie in the beds of those rivers,
char or small island are often thrown up by the alluvion in the midst of the stream, or near one of the banks, and large
portions of land are carried away by an encroachment of the river on one side, whilst accessions of land are at the same
time, or in subsequent years, gained by dereliction of the water on the opposite side; similar instance of alluvion,
encroachment and dereliction also sometimes occur on the sea-coast which borders the southern and south-eastern
limits of Bengal.
The lands gained from the rivers or sea by the means above-mentioned are a frequent source of contention and affray,
and, although the law and custom of the country have established rules applicable to such cases, these rules not being
generally known, the Courts of Justice have sometimes found it difficult to determine the rights of litigant parties claiming
chars or other lands gained in the manner above described.
The Court of Sadar Diwani Adalat, with a view to ascertain the legal provisions of the Muhammedan and Hindu laws on
this subject, called for reports from their law-officers of each persuasion, and on consideration of the reports furnished
by the law officers in consequence, as well as of the decisions which have been passed by the Court of Sadar Diwani
Adalat in cases brought before them in appeal which involved the rights of claimants to lands gained by alluvion or by
dereliction of rivers or the sea, the Governor-General in Council has deemed it proper to enact the following rules for the
general information of individuals as well as for the guidance of the Court of Judicature, to be in force, as soon as
promulgated, throughout the whole of the [territories]
[Substituted by AO. 1950 for 'Provinces'.]
subject to the Presidency of Fort William.
2.
Claims and disputes as to alluvial lands to be decided by usage when clearly recognised and established.
- Whenever any clear and definite usage of shikast paiwast, respecting the disjunction and junction of land by the
encroachment or recess of a river, may have been immediately established, for determining the rights of the proprietors
of two or more continuous estates divided by a river (such as that the main channel of the river dividing the estates shall
be the constant boundary between them, whatever changes may take place in the course of the river, by encroachment
on one side the accession on the other) the usage shall govern the decision of all claims and disputes relative to alluvial
land between the parties whose estates may be liable to such usage.
3.
Where no usage established, claims how decided.
- Where there may be no local usage of the nature referred to in the preceding section, the general rules declared in the
following section shall be applied to the determination of all clams and disputes relative to lands gained by alluvion or by
dereliction [either]
[These words were repealed in Oudh, see Oudh Laws Act, 1876, Schedule II.]
of a river [or the sea]
[These words were repealed in Oudh, see Oudh Laws Act, 1876, Schedule II.]
.
4.
Land gained by gradual accession from recess of river or sea
- First. - When land may be gained by gradual accession, [whether]
[These words were repealed in Oudh, see Oudh Laws Act, 1876, Schedule II.]
from the recess of a river [or of the sea]
[These words were repealed in Oudh, see Oudh Laws Act, 1876, Schedule II.]
, it shall by considered an increment to the tenure of the person to whose land or estate is thus annexed, whether such
land or estate be held immediately from [Government]
[Substituted by A.O. 1950 for 'the crown' which had been Substituted by A.O. 1937 for 'Government'.]
by a zamindar or other superior landholder, or as a subordinate tenure by any description of under-tenure whatever:
Extents of interests in increment of person in possession. - Provided that the increment of land thus obtained shall not
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Bengal Alluvion and Diluvion Regulation, 1825
entitle the person in possession of the estate or tenure to which the land may be annexed to a right of property or
permanent interest therein beyond that possessed by him in the estate or tenure to which the land may be annexed, and
shall not in any case be understood to exempt the holder of it from the payment to the [Government]
[Substituted by A.O. 1950 for 'the Crown' which had been substituted by the A.O. 1937 for 'Government'.]
of any assessment for the public revenue to which it may be liable under [the provisions of Regulation II, 1819, or of any
other Regulation in force]
[So far as it related to the province of Agra, Bengal Reg. II of 1819 was repealed by N. W.P. Land Revenue Act, 1873
(Act XIX of 1873), repealed by U.P. Act III of 1901.]
:
Nor if annexed to a subordinate tenure held under a superior landholder shall the undertenant, whether a khud
kast-raiyat, holding a maurusi istinvari tenure (Sic) fixed rate of rent per bigha, or any other description of under tenant
liable by his engagements, or by established usage, to an increase of rent for the land annexed to his tenure by alluvion,
be considered exempt from the payment of any increase of rent to which he may be justly liable.
Second. - When river by sudden change of course intersects estate. - The above rule shall not be considered applicable
to cases in which a river, by a sudden change of its course, may break through and intersect an estate without any
gradual encroachment, or may by the violence of stream separate a considerable piece of land from one estate, and join
it to another estate, without destroying the identity, and preventing the recognition, of the land so removed.
In such cases the land, on being clearly recognised, shall remain the property of its original owner.
Third. - Chars thrown up in navigable river. - When a char or island may be thrown up in a large navigable river (the bed
of which is not the property of an individual) [or in the sea]
[So far as it related to the province of Agra, Bengal Reg. II of 1819 was repealed by N.W.P. Land Revenue Act, 1873
(Act XIX of 1873), repealed by U.P. Act III of 1901.]
, and the channel of the river [or sea]
[So far as it related to the province of Agra, Bengal Reg. II of 1819 was repealed by N.W.P. Land Revenue Act, 1873
(Act XIX of 1873), repealed by U.P. Act III of 1901.]
between such island and the shore may not be fordable, it shall, according to established usage, be at the disposal of
[Government]
[Substituted by the A.O. 1950 for 'the Crown' which had been Substituted by the A.O. 1937 for 'Government'.]
.
Property therein when channel fordable. - But, if the channel between such island and the shore be fordable at any
season of the year, it shall be considered an accession to the land, tenure or tenures of the person or persons whose
estate or estates may be most contiguous to it, subject to the several provisions specified in the first clause of this
section with respect to increment of land by gradual accession.
Fourth. - Chars, etc., thrown up in small shallow rivers. - In small and shallow rivers, the beds of which with the jalkar
right of fishery, may have been hereto fore recognized as the property of individuals, any sand bank or char may be
thrown up shall, as hitherto, belong to the proprietor of the bed of the river, subject to the provisions stated in the first
clause of the present section.
Fifth. - Disputes relative to lands gained by alluvion or by dereliction not provided for by Regulation. - In all other cases,
namely, in all cases of claims and disputes respecting land gained by alluvion, or by dereliction of river [or the sea]
[So far as it related to the province of Agra, Bengal Reg. II of 1819 was repealed by N.W.P. Land Revenue Act, 1873
(Act XIX of 1873), repealed by U.P. Act III of 1901.]
, which are not specifically provided for by the rules contained in this Regulation, the Courts of Justice, in deciding upon
such claims and disputes, shall be guided by the best evidence they may be able to obtain or established local usage if
there be any applicable to the case, or, if not, by general principles of equity and justice.
5.
Encroachment on beds of navigable rivers, and other obstructions.
- Nothing in this regulation shall be construed to justify any encroachments by individuals on the bed or channels of
navigable rivers, or to prevent [Zila * * *]
[The words 'and city repealed', by Act XVI of 1874.]
[Magistrates]
[Substituted by Act I of 1903.]
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Bengal Alluvion and Diluvion Regulation, 1825
or any other officers, of [Government]
[Substituted by the A.O. 1950 for 'the Crown' which had been Substituted by the A.O. 1937 for 'Government'.]
who may be duly empowered for that purpose, from removing obstacles which appear to interfere with the safe and
customary navigation of such rivers, or which shall in any respects obstruct the passage of boats by tracking on the
banks of such rivers, or otherwise.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4