
----- PAGE 1 -----
U.P. Rules Regulating the Transport of Timber in the Kumaun Civil Division, 1920
U.P. Rules Regulating the Transport of Timber in the Kumaun Civil
Division, 1920
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/163737015/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Uttar Pradesh - Act
U.P. Rules Regulating the Transport of Timber in the Kumaun Civil Division, 1920
UTTAR PRADESH
India
U.P. Rules Regulating the Transport of Timber in the Kumaun Civil Division, 1920
Rule U-P-RULES-REGULATING-THE-TRANSPORT-OF-TIMBER-IN-THE-KUMAUN-CIVIL-DIVISION-1920 of 1920
Published on 21 April 1920
Commenced on 21 April 1920
[This is the version of this document from 21 April 1920.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
U.P. Rules Regulating the Transport of Timber in the Kumaun Civil Division, 1920
Published vide Notification No. 503/14-42, dated 21.4.1920
In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 41 of the Indian Forest Act, 1927, the Government of U.P. is pleased to
make the following Rules to regulate the transport of timber by river in Kumaun Civil Division.
1.
These rules shall apply only to persons rafting or otherwise conveying timber on any river under a pass issued in
according with Rule XI of G.O. No. 672/XIV-42, dated September 30, 1915.
2.
The owner of any timber who desires to transport it by river, or his agent or Servant, any upon giving ten days notice in
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
U.P. Rules Regulating the Transport of Timber in the Kumaun Civil Division, 1920
writing (through the Divisional Forest Officer or Officer in-charge of the forest range in which the timber is to be
transported) demand that any where 'bund' or other obstruction made for any purpose in the bed of river be either
opened sufficiently to allow the timber to pass through or be entirely removed, for a period not exceeding six day. If
floating operations exceed six days, the 'bund' must be repaired operation evening to provide water for irrigation
purposes; the total period of operation should not exceed 15 days at a time.
3.
If his demand is not complied with within 5 days of the expiry of the period of ten days given in the notice prescribed by
Rule 2 the owner of the timber, or his agent or servant, may himself either remove the obstruction or open to a passage
through it for his timber, and the owner of the obstruction shall not offer any resistance to his so doing.
4.
Any person who offers resistance to the owner of the timber or his agent or servant, when removing any obstruction, or
opening a passage through it for his own timber, as provided for under Rule 3, shall be liable to a fine which may extend
to one thousand rupees.
5.
In all cases the owner of the timber shall be bound to pay the cost of removing the obstruction, and shall be bound,
immediately after passing his timber through, to repair or reconstruct the same at his own expenses.
In the event of his failing to do so, the owner of the weir or bund shall be at liberty to repair or reconstruct it himself and
to recover the cost so doing as compensation from the owner of the timber.
6.
Upto a period of six days no compensation shall be payable by the owner of the timber to the owner of any mill or
irrigated land by reason of the water channel supplying his mill or land being dried up, owing to the removal of opening
of any weir or bund.
7.
In the case of a mill, the working of which has been stopped for more than six days owning to the water supply being cut
off, the owner of the timber shall be liable to pay compensation for the whole period during which the mill was idle at a
rate which shall be ten times the rent which would be payable by the mill owner to Government for such period, were the
rent at which such mill is assessed, distributed proportionately over such period.
8.
In the case of land of which the irrigation has been stopped for more then 6 days owing to the water supply being cut off,
the owner of the timber shall be liable to pay compensation for loss incurred, the amount of the loss will be determined
by the Deputy Commissioner after causing a local inquiry to be made, unless the parties come to terms privately.
9.
In no case, except with the express consent of the owner shall any weir, bund or other obstruction be kept open for a
period exceeding two months in all in any one year. After the period of 15 days mentioned in Rule 2 and except with the
consent of the owners of the bund or weir no further floating operations shall be undertaken for a period of ten days.
10.
In cases where the period mentioned in Rule 6 has caused damage to agricultural operations, compensation may be
assessed by the Deputy Commissioner and paid by the Forest Department.
11.
Any claim for compensation against the owner of the timber under Rules 5, 7 and 8 shall be presented within six months
if the claim accruing to the Deputy Commissioner of the District whose decision upon the claim shall be final.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2