
----- PAGE 1 -----
The U.P. Suits Valuation Rules, 1942
The U.P. Suits Valuation Rules, 1942
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/61581061/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Uttar Pradesh - Act
The U.P. Suits Valuation Rules, 1942
UTTAR PRADESH
India
The U.P. Suits Valuation Rules, 1942
Rule THE-U-P-SUITS-VALUATION-RULES-1942 of 1942
Published on 27 November 1929
Commenced on 27 November 1929
[This is the version of this document from 27 November 1929.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The U.P. Suits Valuation Rules, 1942
Published vide Judicial Department (Civil) Miscellaneous No. 2160/7-487-41, dated April 4, 1942, published in the U.P.
Gazette, dated April 11, 1942 Part 1-A, pages 99 and 100
In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 3 of the Suits Valuation Act, 1887 (VII of 1887), as
amended in its application to the Uttar Pradesh Suits Valuation (Amendment) Act, 1939 (VII of 1939), the Governor of
the Uttar Pradesh in supersession of Government Notification No. 1874/VII-447, dated the 27th November, 1929, hereby
makes the following rules for determining the value of land for purposes of jurisdiction in the suits, mentioned in
Paragraphs V, V-A and V-B of Section 7 of the Court Fees Act, 1870 (VII of 1870), as amended in its application to the
Uttar Pradesh by the Uttar Pradesh Court Fees (Amendment) Act, 1938 (XIX of 1938), and the Court Fees (Uttar
Pradesh Amendment) Act, 1941 (IX of 1941).
1.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The U.P. Suits Valuation Rules, 1942
Short title, extent and commencement.
(a)
These rules may be called the Uttar Pradesh Suits Valuation Rules, 1942.
(b)
They shall apply to the whole of the Uttar Pradesh.
(c)
They shall come into force from the date of their notification in the official
2.
Definitions.
- In these rules there is anything repugnant to the subject or
(a)
"Government" means the Government of Uttar Pradesh ;
(b)
"estate" means any land subject to the payment of revenue for which the proprietor or farmer or raiyat shall have
executed separate engagement with the Government or which in the absence of such engagement, shall have been
separately assessed with revenue ;
(c)
"rent-free grant" or "land at a favourable rate of rent" have the meanings assigned to them by Section 188 and Section
189 respectively of the Uttar Pradesh Tenancy Act, 1939 (XVII of 1939).
3.
Suits for possession of land, buildings and gardens.
- In suits for the possession of land, the value of the land for purposes of jurisdiction shall be determined as follows :
(a)
where the land forms an entire estate or a definite share of an estate paying annual revenue to Government or forms
part of such estate and such part is recorded in the Collector's register as separately assessed with such revenue, and
such revenue, is permanently settled-Fifty five times the annual revenue so payable;
(b)
where the land forms an entire estate or a definite share of an estate paying annual revenue to Government or forms
part of such estate and such part is recorded in the Collector's register as separately assessed with such revenue, and
such revenue is not permanently settled-thirty times the annual revenue so payable;
(c)
where the land pays no annual revenue or has been partially exempted from such payment, or is charged with a fixed
payment in lieu of such revenue, and net profits have arisen from the land during the three years immediately preceding
the date of presenting the plaint-
(i)
fifty-five or thirty times the nominal annual revenue when such revenue has been assessed according as the land is in a
permanently or temporarily settled area ; or
(ii)
where no such nominal revenue has been assessed, twenty times the annual average of such net profits ;
but where no such profits have arisen from the lands, twenty times the annual average net profits of similar land for the
three years immediately preceding the date of presenting the plaint;
(d)
where the land forms part of an estate paying annual revenue to Government, but is not a definite share of such estate
and does not come under the clause (a), (b) or (c) of this rule -fifty-five or thirty times the annual revenue payable in
respect of such a land according as the land is in a permanently or temporarily settled area ;
(e)
where there are also buildings or a gardens on the land the aggregate of the value of the land as determined in
accordance with these rules plus the market value of such buildings or gardens situated thereon.
4.
Suits for possession of superior proprietary, under-proprietary and sub-proprietary rights in land.
- The value of the suits for the purposes of jurisdiction in suits for possession-
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The U.P. Suits Valuation Rules, 1942
(a)
of superior proprietary rights where under-proprietary or sub-proprietary rights exist in the land shall be twenty times the
annual net profits of the superior proprietor;
(b)
of under-proprietary land as such shall be twenty times the annual under-proprietary or sub-proprietary rent, as the case
may be, recorded in the Collector's register as payable for the land for the year next before the presentation of the plaint.
If no such rent is recorded in the Collector's register, the value shall be determined by multiplying by twenty such rents
for similar land for the year next before the presentation of the plaint.
5.
Suits between rival tenants and by tenants against trespasser.
- The value of suits for purposes of jurisdiction in suits for possession of land between rival tenants and by tenants
against trespassers shall-
(a)
where the land is the land of a permanent tenure-holder or a fixed rate tenant, be thirty times the annual rent recorded in
the Collector's register as payable for the land for the year next before the presentation of the plaint;
(b)
where the land is the land of an ex-proprietary or occupancy tenant or to a tenant holding on special terms in Oudh, be
twelve times such rent;
(c)
where the land is the land of a hereditary tenant, be eight times such rent;
(d)
where the land is the land of any other tenant, be six times such rent.
If no such rent is recorded in the Collector's register, the value shall be determined by multiplying the annual average
rent of similar land for three years next before the presentation of the plaint, by thirty, twelve, eight and six accordingly
as the class of tenancy affected is governed by clause (a), (b), (c) or (d) of this rule.
6.
Suits for possession of rent free grants.
(1)
The value of suits for the purposes of jurisdiction in suits for possession of a rent-free grant or a grant of land held at
favourable rate of rent shall be thirty times, the annual average rent payable by occupancy tenants for similar land for
the three years next before the presentation of the plaint.
(2)
Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing rules, the value of land for purposes of jurisdiction shall in no case
be less than the value as determined for computation of Court fees.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3