
----- PAGE 1 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/170836374/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
2
]
State of Uttar Pradesh - Act
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
UTTAR PRADESH
India
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
Rule THE-U-P-FUNDAMENTAL-RULES of 1931
Published on 1 January 1931
Commenced on 1 January 1931
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 1931.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
[Made by the Governor of the Uttar Pradesh under Section 241(2)(b) of the Government of India Act, 1935.]
Chapter I
Extent of Application
1.
These rules may be called the Uttar Pradesh Fundamental Rules. They shall come into force with effect from April 1,
1942.
Nothing in these rules shall, however, be construed as affecting or invalidating any rules or orders made, or any rights,
privileges or concessions accrued or granted to government servants, or any leave earned by them, or any pay or
allowances fixed, under the rules in force immediately before the introduction of these rules, and all rules and orders and
all such rights, privileges, concessions, leave, pay and allowances shall continue to remain operative in the same
Page 1/98
----- PAGE 2 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
manner as they would have been operative under the said rules and shall, so far as may be, be deemed to have been
made, earned or granted under the appropriate provisions of these rules.
2.
These rules apply to all government servants the conditions of whose service have been or may be prescribed by the
Governor under sub-section (2) (b) of section 241 of the Act.
3.
and 4.
[* * *]
5.
The power to make rules or issue general orders under these rules shall be exercised by the Governor in the manner
prescribed by the rules made by him under sub-section (3) of section 59 of the Act.
6.
The Governor may delegate to any subordinate authorities under his control, subject to any conditions which he may
think fit to impose, any power exercised by him under these rules with the following exceptions:
(a)
the power to make rules;
(b)
powers under rules 6, 9 (6) (b), 44, 45-A, 45-C, 83, 108-A, 119, 121 and 127(c), and by the first proviso to clause (1) of
rule 30.
(For delegations of powers made by the Governor under this rule and rule 7, see Part IV of this volume).
7.
No powers may be exercised or delegated under these rules except after consultation with the Finance Department. It
shall be open to that department to prescribe, by general or special order, cases in which its consent may be presumed
to have been given.
Note - For powers delegated under these rules, see Part IV of this volume.
8.
[* * *]
Chapter II
Definitions
9.
Unless there be something repugnant in the subject or context, the terms defined in this chapter are used in the sense
here explained:
(1)
The Act means the Government of India Act, 1935.
(2)
Except as provided otherwise in this sub-rule, average pay means the average monthly pay earned during the 12
complete months immediately preceding the month in which the event occurs which necessitates the calculation of
average pay:
Provided that-
In respect of any period spent on deputation out of India which has been declared by the Government to be under
quasi-European conditions the pay which the government servant would have drawn if on duty in India shall be
substituted for the pay actually drawn.
Exceptions. - 1. For the purpose of calculating the leave salary admissible to government servant recruited on or after
1st January, 1931, and before 1st January, 1936, the term "average pay" means either the average of the monthly pay
earned during the three complete years immediately preceding the month in which the leave is take or the average
substantive pay of the government servant during the 12 complete months immediately preceding the month in which
the leave is taken, whichever is greater.
2. For the purpose of calculating the leave salary admissible to government servant recruited on or after 1st January,
1936, the term "average pay" is defined in the explanation given under rule 87-A.
Audit instruction regarding Rule 9 (2)
1. According to the definition of "average pay" in this rule the average is to be taken of the monthly pay earned during
Page 2/98
----- PAGE 3 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
the 12 complete months immediately preceding the month in which the leave is taken and for this purpose "the 12
complete months immediately preceding" should be interpreted literally. Thus, a government servant who has been on
leave from 23rd March, 1922 to 22nd July, 1922, inclusive, is granted leave from 4th February, 1923. His average pay
should be calculated on the pay earned for the periods 1st February, 1922 to 22nd March 1922, and 23rd July 1922 to
31st January, 1923. If, however, a government servant happens to be on leave for more than 12 months immediately
preceding the date on which he takes leave under the Fundamental Rules, then the average should be taken of the
monthly pay earned during the 12 complete months immediately preceding the month in which the leave originally
commenced.
1A.
A civil government servant belonging to the India Army Reserve of Officers when called to Army service, or such a
government servant belonging to the Indian Territorial Force while undergoing training with the force, is not a 'military
officer' as defined in Fundamental [Rule 9(16) (b)]
[In Part 1 of this Volume.]
and in his case 'pay' as defined in Fundamental Rule 9(21) [* * *] does not include 'rank pay' received during the period
of his Army service or training. In such cases the pay which the government servant would have received if he had not
been called to Army service or training, and not the 'rank pay' actually drawn during the period, should be taken into
account for purposes of calculating leave salary based on average pay under the Fundamental Rules.
2. In the case of a government servant on foreign service out of India lasting for more than 12 months who on reversion
to Government service immediately takes leave under the Fundamental Rules, the calculation of average pay in respect
of leave earned while in Government service should be based on the pay drawn by him during the 12 complete months
preceding the month in which he was transferred to foreign service.
3. In the case of government servant of a vacation department, the vacation falling in the period of 12 complete months
immediately preceding the month in which leave is taken should be treated as duty under Fundamental Rule 82 (b) and
the emoluments drawn by the government servant during the vacation should be treated as pay drawn on duty, and
should therefore be taken into account in determining his leave salary during the succeeding leave.
3A.
In the case of a government servant of a vacation department both prefixing and suffixing leave to a vacation, the
leave-salary for the leave affixed should be calculated on the emolument drawn by the government servant during the
twelve complete months preceding the commencement of his leave prefixed to the vacation.
3B.
In order to determine the pay which a government servant would have drawn, if on duty in India for the purpose of the
proviso to Fundamental Rule 9 (2), vacation should be treated as equivalent of leave on average pay for the purposes of
this proviso.
3C.
For an interpretation of the expression "pay which the government servant would have drawn if on duty in India" in the
proviso to Fundamental Rule 9(2), see paragraph 2 of the Audit Instructions regarding Fundamental Rules 50 and 51.
4.
The term "month" in this rule means "calendar month" as in rule 9(18).
5. Any Period of joining time taken either under clause (b) or under clause (c) of rule 105 during the preceding 12 month
should be ignored in calculating average pay, as no "pay" is drawn in respect of such joining time.
(3)
Barrister means a practicing barrister of England or Northern Ireland or a practicing member of the Faculty of Advocates
in Scotland. It dose not include a person who, though called to the Bar, has never practiced the profession of barrister.
(4)
Cadre means the strength of a service or a part of a service sanctioned as a separate unit.
(5)
Compensatory allowance means an allowance granted to meet personal expenditure necessitated by the special
circumstances in which duty is performed. It includes a travelling allowance.
Audit instruction regarding rule 9(5)
The allowance granted to professors of medical colleges who are denied the privilege of private practice should be
treated as compensatory allowance.
Page 3/98
----- PAGE 4 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
(6)
Duty - (a) Duty includes-
(i)
Service as a probationer or apprentice, provided that, except as otherwise provided in the special rules applicable to an
appointment or service, such service is followed by confirmation.
(ii)
Joining time.
(iii)
Extra leave on average pay granted to a government servant undergoing treatment at an anti-rabic treatment centre.
(b)
[ The Governor may issue orders declaring that, in circumstances similar to those mentioned below, a government
servant may be treated as on duty:
[Substituted by Notification No. G-1-914-I/X-201-80, dated 15th April, 1982.]
(i)
During a course of instruction or training in or outside India.
Order of the Governor regarding rule 9 (6) (b) (i).
Whenever government servants who are members of the Territorial army are called up for military duty in aid of civil
power or for supplementing or supporting the regular armed forces during actual war, or are permitted to attend a course
of instruction, their absence from their offices should be treated as duty for the purpose of civil leave and pension. If a
government servant is on an incremental scale of pay, he will count his military service for increments in the time-scale
of pay applicable to him in his civil post and also towards civil pension, in the same way as if he had put in that period of
service in his appointment.
(ii)
In the case of a student, stipendiary or otherwise, who is entitled to be appointed to the service of the Government on
passing through a course of training at a university, college or school in or outside India, during the interval between the
satisfactory completion of the course and his assumption of duties.
(iii)
When a Government servant after reporting for duty has compulsorily to wait for taking charge of a post for which he is
in no way responsible, during the interval between the date of such report and the date on which he takes charge of his
duties.
(iv)
In the circumstances and subject to conditions stipulated in Fundamental Rules 83 and 83-A for the first six months of
disability and their after provisions of aforementioned rules shall apply.]
(For rules made by the Governor under this rule, see Part III of this volume, Chapter II.)
Orders of the Governor under rule 9 (6)
Mr. N, an executive engineer, while officiating as superintending engineer, was granted leave on average pay on
medical certificate for 4 months and 12 days expiring on 25th August, 1924. After receipt of a medical certificate of
fitness, the question of his posting was taken up on the 16th August, 1924, and it having been finally decided to post him
as officiating superintending engineer, orders for his posting were issued on the 26th September, 1924. Mr. N, joined
duty on the forenoon of the 4th October, 1924. The question arose how the period 26th August, 1924 to 3rd October,
1924, should be treated.
The circumstances of the case are similar to those referred to in Fundamental Rule 9 (6) (b) (iv) in as much as in both
cases the essential point is the compulsory waiting by the government servant concerned for orders of Government
posting him to a particular post. Accordingly, the Central Government with the concurrence of the Auditor General,
ordered that the period of waiting in the case of Mr. N, and in other similar cases should be treated as duty as in the
case mentioned in Fundamental Rule 9 (6) (b) (iv). The Governor has decided that the above ruling shall also apply to
government servants under his rule-making power.
Order of the Governor under Fundamental Rule 9(6) (a)
The probationary service of ex-soldiers enlisted in the Police department will counts as duty.
Audit instructions regarding Rule 9(6)
1. (a) The term "probationer" in Fundamental Rule 9(6) (a) (i) does not cover a government servant who holds
Page 4/98
----- PAGE 5 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
substantively a permanent post in a cadre and is merely appointed on "probation" to another post. Such a government
servant not being a probationer, the proviso in Fundamental Rule 9(6) (a) (i) does not apply to him, and the service
rendered by him is duty for all purposes of the Fundamental Rules without any restriction or limitation.
(b)
No person appointed substantively to a permanent post in a cadre is a probationer, unless definite conditions of
probation have been attached to his appointment, such as the condition that he must remain on probation pending the
passing of certain examinations.
(c)
The status of a probationer is to be considered as having the attributes of a substantive status except where the rules
prescribe otherwise.
2. Propriety of reckoning leave as 'duty' for the purposes of the Fundamental Rules. - No leave can be treated as duty
for the purpose of Fundamental [Rules 61]
[In Part I of this Volume.]
or for the purpose of any other Fundamental Rule unless the contrary is expressly stated therein.
(6A)
Fee means a recurring or non-recurring payment to a government servant from a source other than the Consolidated
Fund of State or the Consolidated Fund of India, whether made directly to the government servant or indirectly through
the intermediary of Government, but does not include-
(a)
unearned income such as income from property, dividends and interest on securities; and
(b)
income from literary, cultural, artistic, scientific or technological efforts, if such efforts are not aided by the knowledge
acquired by the government servant in the course of his service.
(This amendment shall be deemed to have come into force with effect from April 6, 1974).
(7)
Foreign service means service in which a government servant receives his substantive pay with the sanction of the
Government (a) from any source other than the revenues of the Central or of a State Government or the Railway Board;
or (b) from a company working a State railway.
(7A)
Government, unless the contrary is evident from the context, means "the Government of Uttar Pradesh."
(7B)
Government servant for purposes of these rules, means a person appointed to a civil post or a civil service under the
State Government in India, and serving in connexion with affairs of the Uttar Pradesh, whose conditions of service have
been or may be prescribed by the Governor under section 241 (2) (b) of the Act.
Note - In the case of Subsidiary Rules made under these rules and under the Fundamental Rules in Part I this
expression also all servants of the late secretary of State Services under the control of the Government to whom the
Subsidiary Rules may be made applicable.
(7C)
Governor means the Governor of Uttar Pradesh.
(8)
Subject to the provisions of section 136 of the Act-
(i)
Revenues of the Federation include all revenues and public moneys raised or received by the Federation. Until the
Federation is established, the term "revenues of the Federation" shall mean the Central revenues.
(ii)
Revenues of the Province include all revenues and public moneys raised or received by the Uttar Pradesh Government.
(9)
Honorarium means recurring or non-recurring payment granted to a government servant from the Consolidated Fund of
a State or the Consolidated Fund of India as remuneration for special work of an occasional character.
(10)
Joining time means the time allowed to government servant in which to join a new post or to travel to or from a station to
Page 5/98
----- PAGE 6 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
which he is posted.
(11)
Leave on average (or half or quarter average) pay means leave on leave-salary equal to average (or half or quarter
average) pay, as regulated by rules 89 and 90.
(12)
Leave salary means the monthly amount paid by the Government to a government servant on leave.
(13)
Lien means the title of a government servant to hold substantively, either immediately or on the termination of a period
or periods of absence, a permanent post, including a tenure post, to which he has been appointed substantively.
(14)
Local fund means-
(a)
revenues administered by bodies which by law or rule having the force of law come under the control of the
Government, whether in regard to proceedings generally or to specific matters, such as the sanctioning of their budgets,
sanction to the creation or filling up of particular posts, or the enactment of leave pension or similar rules; and
(b)
the revenues of any body which may be specially notified by the Government as such.
Order of the Governor under Rule 9 (14)
According to the decision given by the Government of India in consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor General of
India in 1942, all Universities established by law are within the meaning of definition given in clause (a) above.
(15)
[* * *]
(16)
[* * *]
(17)
Ministerial servant means a government servant of a subordinate service whose duties are entirely clerical and any
other class of government servant specially defined as such by general or special order of the government.
Orders of the Governor regarding Rule 9 (17)
1. The assistant secretaries to the Government in the Civil and Public Works Secretariat have been declared to be
ministerial servants.
2. The Registrar of the Board of Revenue has been declared to be a ministerial government servant if previous to his
promotion he was a member of the ministerial establishment of the Board's Office and not a member of the U. P. Civil
Service.
3. The Deputy Registrar and the Assistant Registrar of the High Court at Allahabad [ * * * ] have been declared to be
ministerial servants.
4. Partition amins have been declared as ministerial servants.
(18)
Month means calendar month. In calculating a period expressed in terms of months and days, complete calendar
months, irrespective of the number of days in each, should first be calculated and the odd number of days calculated
subsequently.
Audit instruction regarding Rule 9(18)
In calculating a period of 3 months and 20 days from January 25, 3 months should be taken as ending on April 24, and
the 20 days on May 14. In the same way the period from January 30 to March 2, should be reckoned as 1 month and 2
days because one month from January 30, ends on February 28.
A period of one month and 29 days commencing from the 1st January will expire, in an ordinary year (in which February
is a month of 28 days) on the last day of February, because a period of 29 days cannot obviously mean to exceed a
period of full calendar month and leave for two months from 1st January would end on the last day of February. The
same would be the case if February were a month of 29 days or if the broken period were 28 days (in an ordinary year).
(19)
Officiate - A government servant officiates in a post when he performs the duties of a post on which another person
holds a lien. The Government may, if they think fit, appoint a government servant to officiate in a vacant post on which
Page 6/98
----- PAGE 7 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
no other government servant holds a lien.
(20)
Overseas pay means pay granted to a government servant in consideration of the fact that he is serving in a country
other than the country of his domicile.
Orders of the Governor regarding the drawal of overseas pay under rule 9(20)
1. Where it is provided in the rules regulating conditions of appointment to any service or post, that the pay of the service
or post shall include overseas pay, such overseas pay shall, unless it be otherwise expressly provided in such rules, be
drawn only by a member of the service or an incumbent of the post whose domicile at the date of his first substantive
appointment to such service or post was elsewhere than in Asia. Provided that no such government servant shall be
entitled to overseas pay who, prior to such appointment, has, for the purpose of his appointment to a post under the
Government or of the conferment upon him by the Government of any scholarship, emoluments or other privilege,
claimed and been deemed to be of Indian domicile.
2. (i) The domicile of a person shall be determined in accordance with the provisions set out in the [schedule]
[See pages 503-504 of this Part.]
to these rules.
(ii)
No government servant who after his appointment to a service or post acquires a new domicile shall thereby lose his
right to or become entitled to overseas pay.
(iii)
A government servant who has been drawing overseas pay in good faith and whose domicile is challenged should
receive a personal allowance equal to the amount of overseas pay hitherto drawn, the allowance to be absorbed in
increments, from the date when his domicile is questioned, and should continue to enjoy such allowance in the event of
an eventual adverse decision.
(21)
Pay means amount drawn monthly by a government servant as-
(i)
the pay, other than special pay or pay granted in view of his personal qualifications, which has been sanctioned for a
post held by him substantively or in an officiating capacity, or to which he is entitled by reason of his position in a cadre,
and
(ii)
overseas pay, technical pay, special pay and personal pay, and
(iii)
any other emoluments which may be specially classed as pay by the Governor.
Orders of the Governor under Rule 9(21) (iii)
Judicial pay and language pay have been declared to be pay.
Audit instructions regarding Rule 9(21)
1. If language allowances are lump sum allowances, they will be dealt with under rule 46. If they are recurring payment,
they will fall under the head "pay" under rule 9(21).
2. [* * *]
3. Pay drawn by civil government servants belonging to the India Army Reserve of Officers when called to Army Service
or those belonging to the Indian Territorial Force while undergoing training with the Force.
See audit instruction no. 1-A regarding Fundamental Rule 9(2).
(22)
Permanent post means a post carrying a definite rate of pay sanctioned without limit of time.
(23)
Personal pay means additional pay granted to a government servant-
(a)
to save him from a loss of substantive pay in respect of a permanent post other than a tenure post due to a revision of
pay or to any reduction of such substantive pay otherwise than as a disciplinary measure; or
(b)
in exceptional circumstances, on other personal considerations.
Page 7/98
----- PAGE 8 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
Orders of the Governor regarding rule 9(23) (b)
1. No application for the grant of a compensatory personal pay should be entertained unless-
(a)
the government servant's service has been consistently satisfactory and has been of a character superior to what is
ordinarily excepted of the incumbent of the appointment:
(b)
the government servant is fit for promotion but there is no possibility of giving him any advancement in the near future;
and
(c)
the government servant has been at least five year on the same pay or if his pay is progressive, on the maximum pay of
his appointment.
The mere fulfilment of the conditions mentioned above should not be regarded as securing a personal pay to a
government servant as a matter of course, the purpose of the conditions being to enable obviously weak claims to be
summarily rejected. No case for personal pay will be considered by the Government which is not of an entirely
exceptional character.
2. The maximum of a grade is definitely fixed as being the maximum pay which it is justifiable to give to a man
performing the duties of the post. The fact that one man, owing perhaps to luck in promotion, reaches the maximum of
his grade some years before he is due to retire is not in itself a sufficient reason for increasing that maximum by the
grant of personal pay. On the other hand, there is every reason why no personal pay should be given, because a man
who reaches the maximum of his grade earlier than was intended when the grade was fixed should consider himself
fortunate in being able to draw the maximum for so long a period in his service.
(24)
Presumptive pay of a post, when used with reference to any particular government servant, means the pay to which he
would be entitled if he held the post substantively and were performing its duties; but it does not include special pay
unless the government servant performs or discharges the work or responsibility, or is exposed to the unhealthy
conditions, in consideration of which the special pay was sanctioned.
Audit instruction regarding Rule 9 (24)
The first part of the definition is intended to facilitate the use of the term in relation to a government servant who has
been absent from post for some time but still retains a lien on it.
(25)
[ Special pay means an addition of the nature of pay, to the emoluments of a post or of a government servant, granted in
consideration of-
[Substituted by Notification No. G-1/1020/X-534 (105)-58, dated 10th May, 1979 (w.e.f. 1.4.1979).]
(a)
the specially arduous nature of the duties; or
(b)
a specific addition to the work or responsibility.]
Audit instruction regarding the calculation of special pay in certain cases
When special pay has been sanctioned in the form of a portion or percentage of pay in the ordinary line and the pay in
the ordinary line includes an element of sterling overseas pay, such special pay should be determined as follows:
(a)
the special pay is admissible on the sterling overseas pay as well as on the rupee basic pay;
(b)
the special pay must be expressed and drawn wholly in rupees;
(c)
the sterling overseas pay should, for the purpose of calculating the special pay, be converted into rupees at the rate of 1
s. 6 d. to the rupee.
Orders of the Governor regarding Rule 9 (25)
1. There is no inter-dependence between special pay and compensatory allowance; they are essentially different. Where
the cost of living, for example, would justify the grant to a government servant of a compensatory allowance he should
not be rendered ineligible for such allowance simply because he has already been granted special pay in recognition of
Page 8/98
----- PAGE 9 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
the duties and responsibilities of the post; and, if the attachment of special pay to a post is justified under the terms of
these rules, it should not be subject to reduction because for reasons substantially different a compensatory allowance
as defined in rule 9 (5) is subsequently granted.
2. In order that the Accountant General may see whether additions to pay, such as special pay and compensatory
allowance, have been correctly classified, the reasons for granting such additions should be briefly recorded in the order
conveying the sanction. Where it is not advisable to record the reasons in an open letter the reasons should be
communicated confidentially to the Accountant General.
3. The following principles are laid down to govern the grant of special pay:
(1)
(a)
Special pay should be granted only when the conditions laid down in this rule apply strictly. It should not be given merely
for the purpose of improving the prospects of a service or for the purpose of serving as a substitute for, or as an addition
to, a selection grade of pay.
(b)
The posts in the ordinary time-scale of a service will naturally vary in intensity and responsibility, but this is no ground
ordinarily for granting special pays to the holders of the heavier charges. If owing to circumstances a junior government
servant has to hold one of the more responsible regular charges, he is thereby given an opportunity or proving his
fitness for higher posts.
(c)
The placing of a government servant on special duty does not necessarily mean that his work becomes specially
arduous or so increased in quantity and responsibility as to justify special pay. A government servant's posting is in the
hands of the Government and he has no right to refuse a post which the Government in the cause of the public service
allots to him. This applies also to government servants transferred by agreement between two Governments from one
Government to another. A protest against a posting should be formally admitted only on the ground of loss of pay or
prospects and even on these grounds the Government is the final arbiter.
(d)
A comparison between the circumstances of one government servant and another or of one service and another should
not necessarily be accepted as an argument for the grant or for the enhancement of special pay.
(2)
It is not permissible to grant special pay because a place lacks amenities. Nor does a change of duties necessarily can
note an increase of work or responsibility.
(26)
[* * *]
(27)
Subsistence grant means a monthly grant made to a government servant who is not in receipt of pay or leave-salary.
(28)
Substantive pay means the pay other than special pay, personal pay or emoluments classed as pay by the Governor
under rule 9(21) (iii), to which a government servant is entitled on account of a post to which he has been appointed
substantively or by reasons of his substantive position in a cadre.
(29)
Technical pay means pay granted to a government servant in consideration of the fact that he has received technical
training in Europe.
(30)
Temporary post means a post carrying a definite rate of pay sanctioned for a limited time.
(30A)
Tenure post means a permanent post which an individual government servant may not hold for more than a limited
period.
Note - In case of doubt the Government may decide whether a particular post is or is not a tenure post.
(31)
(a)
Time-scale pay means pay which, subject to any conditions prescribed in these rules, rises by periodical increments
Page 9/98
----- PAGE 10 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
from a minimum to a maximum. It includes the class of pay formerly known as progressive.
(b)
Time-scales are said to be identical if the minimum, the maximum, the period of increment and the rate of increment of
the time-scales are identical.
(c)
A post is said to be on the same time-scale as another post on a time-scale if the two time-scales are identical and the
posts fall within a cadre, or a class in a cadre, such cadre or class having been created in order to fill all posts involving
duties of approximately the same character or degree of responsibility, in a service or establishment or group of
establishments; so that the pay of the holder of any particular post is determined by his position in the cadre or class and
not by the fact that he holds that post.
(32)
Travelling allowance means an allowance granted to a government servant to cover the expenses which he incurs in
travelling in the interests of the public service. It includes allowances granted for the maintenance of conveyances,
horses and tents.
Chapter III
General Conditions of Service
10.
Except as provided by this rule, no person may be substantively appointed to a permanent post in Government service
without a medical certificate of health. The medical certificate shall be furnished in such form and should be signed by
such medical or other officers as the Governor may, by general rule or order, prescribe. The Governor may, in individual
cases, dispense with the production of a certificate, and may, by general order exempt any specified class of
government servants from the operation of this rule.
(This amendment shall be deemed to have come into force on March 17, 1973).
Order of the Governor regarding Rule 10
Once a person is asked to produce a medical certificate of fitness for entry into Government service and has actually
been examined and declared unfit, it is not open to the appointing authority to use its discretion to ignore the certificate
that has been produced.
(For rules made by the Governor under this rule, see Part III of this volume, Chapter III).
11.
Unless in any case it be otherwise distinctly provided, the whole time of a government servant is at the disposal of the
Government, and he may be employed in any manner required by proper authority, without claim for additional
remuneration, whether the services required of him are such as would ordinarily be remunerated from the revenues of
the State or from a local fund or from the funds of a body, incorporated or not, which is wholly or substantially owned or
controlled by the Government.
12.
(a)
Two or more government servants can not be appointed substantively to the same permanent post at the same time.
(b)
A government servant cannot be appointed substantively, except as a temporary measure, to two or more permanent
posts at the same time.
(c)
A government servant cannot be appointed substantively to a post on which another government servant holds a lien.
12A.
Unless in any case it be otherwise provided in these rules, a government servant on substantive appointment to any
permanent post acquires a lien on that post and ceases to hold any lien previously acquired on any other post.
13.
Unless his lien is suspended under rule 14 or transferred under rule 14-B, a government servant holding substantively a
permanent post retains a lien on that post:
(a)
while performing the duties of that post;
(b)
Page 10/98
----- PAGE 11 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
while on foreign service, or holding a temporary post, or officiating in another post;
(c)
during joining time on transfer to another post; unless he is transferred substantively to a post on lower pay, in which
case his lien is transferred to the new post from the date on which he is relieved of his duties in the old post;
(d)
[ while on leave, except on leave granted under rule 86 or 86-A, as the case may be; and]
[This amendment shall come into force with effect from April 1, 1965.]
(e)
while under suspension.
Orders of Governor regarding rule 13
Government servants who are appointed as officers of the Army in India Reserve of Officers, shall retain a lien on their
permanent posts under the Government during the period for which they are called to service in the Defence
Department.
14.
(a)
The lien of a government servant on a permanent post which he holds substantively shall be suspended if he is
appointed in a substantive capacity:
(1)
to a tenure post, or
(2)
to a permanent post outside the cadre on which he is borne, or
(3)
provisionally, to a post on which another government servant would hold a lien had his lien not been suspended under
this rule.
(b)
The Government may, at their option, suspend the lein of a government servant on a permanent post which he holds
substantively if he is deputed out of India or transferred to foreign service, or, in circumstances not covered by clause (a)
of this rule, is transferred, whether in a substantive or officiating capacity, to a post in another cadre, and if in any of
these cases there is reason to believe that he will remain absent from the post on which he holds a lien for a period of
not less than three years.
(c)
Notwithstanding anything contained in clause (a) or (b) of this rule, a government servant's lien on a tenure post may in
no circumstances be suspended. If he is appointed substantively to another permanent post, his lien on the tenure post
must be terminated.
(d)
If a government servant's lien is suspended under clause (a) or (b) of this rule, the post may be filled substantively, and
the government servant appointed to hold it substantively shall acquire a lien on it; provided that the arrangements shall
be reversed as soon as the suspended lien revives.
Notes - (1) This clause applies also if the post concerned is a post in a selection grade of a cadre.
(2)
When a post is filled substantively under this clause, the appointment will be termed a provisional appointment; the
government servant appointed will hold a provisional lien on the post; and that lien will be liable to suspension under
clause (a) but not under clause (b) of this rule.
(e)
A government servant's lien which has been suspended under clause (a) of this rule shall revive as soon as he ceases
to hold lien on a post of the nature specified in sub-clause (1), (2) or (3) of that clause.
(f)
A government servant's lien which has been suspended under clause (b) of this rule shall revive as soon as he ceases
to be on deputation out of India, or on foreign service, or to hold a post in another cadre, provided that a suspended lien
shall not revive because the government servant takes leave if there is reason to believe that he will, on return from
leave, continue to be on deputation out of India, or on foreign service or to hold a post in another cadre and the total
Page 11/98
----- PAGE 12 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
period of absence on duty will not fall short of three years, or that he will hold substantively a post of the nature specified
in sub-clause (1), (2) or (3) of clause (a).
Orders of the Governor regarding Rule 14
When it is known that a government servant on transfer to a post outside his cadre is due to retire on superannuation
pension within three years of his transfer, his lien on the permanent post cannot be suspended.
14A.
(a)
A government servant's lien on a post may in no circumstances be terminated, even with his consent, if the result will be
to leave him without a lien or a suspended lien upon a permanent post.
(b)
In a case covered by sub-clause (2) of clause (a) of rule 14, the suspended lien may not, except on the written request
of the government servant concerned, be terminated while the government servant remains in Government service.
14B.
Subject to the provisions of rule 15, the Government may transfer to another permanent post in the same cadre the lien
of a government servant who is not performing the duties of the post to which the lien relates, even if that lien has been
suspended.
15. [
[Substituted by Notification No. G-2-1517/X-1981-534 (71)-81, dated 6th November, 1981.]
(a)
a government servant may be transferred from one post to another; provided that, except-
(1)
on account of inefficiency or misbehaviour, or
(2)
on his written request,
a government servant shall not be transferred substantively to, or, except in a case covered by rule 49, appointed to
officiate in, a post carrying less pay than the pay of the permanent post on which he holds a lien, or would hold a lien
had his lien not been suspended under rule 14.
(b)
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in these Rules, the Governor may in the public interest transfer a
government servant to a post in another cadre or to an ex-cadre post.
(c)
Nothing contained in clause (a) of this rule or in clause (13) of rule 9 shall operate to prevent the re-transfer of a
government servant to the post on which he would hold a lien, had it not been suspended in accordance with the
provisions of clause (a) of rule 14.]
16.
A government servant may be required to subscribe to a provident fund, a family pension fund or other similar fund in
accordance with such rules as the Governor may by order prescribe.
17.
(1)
Subject to any exception specifically made in these rules, and to the provisions of sub-rule (2) a government servant
shall begin to draw the pay and allowance attached to his tenure of a post with effect from the date when he assumes
the duties of that post, and shall cease to draw them as soon as he ceases to discharge those duties.
Exception - A candidate from the Forest College, Dehra Dun, approved for appointment to the Uttar Pradesh Forest
Service or to the Uttar Pradesh Subordinate Forest Service shall be allowed to draw the minimum pay of his
appointment from the date following the date of his obtaining the prescribed certificate qualifying him for appointment to
the service for which he has been approved and the period intervening between the date of the certificate and the date
of taking over charge shall be treated as duty provided that he actually joins his appointment within ten days from the
date of his certificate.
(2)
The date from which a person recruited overseas shall commence to draw pay on first appointment shall be determined
by the general or special orders of the authority by whom he is appointed.
Page 12/98
----- PAGE 13 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
Audit instructions regarding rule 17.
1. A government servant will given to draw the pay and allowances attached to his tenure of a post with effect from the
date on which he assumes the duties of that post if the charge is transferred before noon of that date. If the charge is
transferred afternoon, he commences to draw them from the following day. The rule does not-however, apply to cases in
which it is the recognized practice to pay a government servant at a higher rate for more important duties performed
during a part only of a day.
2. [* * *]
Orders of the Governor regarding rule 17(2)
The date of commencement of pay of government servants recruited in the United Kingdom on behalf of the
Government shall be the date of embarkation for India, subject to their proceeding from the port of disembarkation to
take up their duties without avoidable delay.
Note 1 - The phrase "without avoidable delay" refers only to delay on the part of the government servant in reporting
himself for duty (either at the headquarters of the Government or at the actual place of duty as the case may be) and not
to delay caused by the Government deferring the issue of his posting orders either inadvertently or deliberately. The
stipulation implied by the phrase should be regarded as fulfilled if the government servant reports for the duty within the
period allowed by the joining time rules with only one day for preparation at the port of disembarkation.
Note 2 - When a government servant recruited to a service or post under the Government on or after January 1, 1936, is
prevented from proceeding at once from the port of disembarkation in India to take up his appointment he should be
granted in respect of the period in excess of that mentioned in the preceding note leave on medical certificate on half
average or leave on private affairs on half average pay as the case may require provided such leave is admissible to
him. If no such leave be admissible, he should be allowed extra-ordinary leave without pay for the period in question.
For the purpose of calculating the rate of leave salary, if any, admissible during the leave, the minimum of the
Government servant's time-scale of pay (including overseas pay) should be treated as his average pay.
18. [
[This amended rule shall be deemed to have come into force w.e.f. 12-9-1989, vide Notification No. G-4-34/X-89-4-83,
dated 12-9-1989.]
Unless the Government, in view of the special circumstances of the case, shall otherwise determine, after five years'
continuous absence from duty elsewhere than on foreign service in India, whether with or without leave, a government
servant ceases to be in Government employ.]
18A.
Subject to the provisions of sections 241 (3) (a) and 258 (2) (b) of the Act, a government servants' claim to pay and
allowances is regulated by the rules in force at the time in respect of which the pay and allowances are earned and to
leave by the rules in force at the time the leave is applied for and granted.
Chapter IV
Pay
19.
The Pay of a government servant shall not exceed the pay sanctioned by a competent authority for the post held by him.
No special or personal pay shall be granted to a government servant without the sanction of the Government.
20.
In respect of any period treated as duty under rule 9 (6) (b), a government servant may be granted such pay as
Government may consider equitable but in no case exceeding the pay which the government servant would have drawn
had he been on duty other than duty under rule 9(6) (b).
Audit instruction regarding Rule 20
1. Deleted.
2. The expressions "the pay of his substantive appointment" and "the pay of any officiating appointment" occurring in
Fundamental Rule 20, should be taken to mean "the pay which the government servant drew in the post which he held
substantively" and "the pay which the government servant drew in the post in which he officiated" respectively. In neither
case is there any restriction on the kind of "pay" to be drawn, and the expressions should therefore be held to include
special pay, if any which the government servant drew in the post he held substantively or in an officiating capacity.
Orders of the Governor regarding Rule 20
1. Government servants who belong to the Army in India Reserve of Officers when called up for training will receive the
Page 13/98
----- PAGE 14 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
following emoluments:
(i)
When proceeding to carry out their training direct from their civil appointments, the pay and allowances, which they
would have drawn in their civil appointments but for the training for the whole period of absence on such training
inclusive of the time spent in transit to and fro.
(ii)
When proceeding to carry out their training while on leave in India, Burma, Ceylon, Great Britain or Northern Ireland, the
civil leave pay and allowances which they would have drawn but for the training.
(iii)
When proceeding to carry out their training on the expiry of leave out of India taken from their civil appointments but
before rejoining their civil appointments for duty, joining time civil pay from the date of disembarkation in India to the date
preceding that on which their training commenced and full civil pay for the period of actual training and the period spent
in journeying to the place of their civil appointments.
(iv)
Military pay and allowances for the period of actual training-
(a)
The emoluments drawn under (i) to (iii) are debatable to the revenues of the State and that under (iv) to the Defence
estimates. The latter shall not be required to bear any share of the leave and pension charges accruing in respect of the
period that a government servant is undergoing training.
(b)
Government servants who join the Army in India Reserve of Officers when employed on part-time military duty in peace
time will get their civil pay only which will be charged to the revenues of the State.
2.
(1)
Government servants who have been permitted to join the Territorial Army will during the period of training and during
the period spent in camp receive (in addition to pay and allowances which they might receive from the Defence Services
Estimates), their civil pay and allowances.
(2)
Government servants whose rates of pay at the time they are called up for military duty [vide orders of the Governor
regarding Fundamental Rule 9(6)(b)(i)] are higher than the military pay and allowances to which they would be entitled in
respect of military duty, would receive pay at the civil rates at which they would have drawn it if they had not proceeded
on military duty and the difference between the civil pay and allowances and military pay and allowances shall constitute
a charge against the ordinary head of expenditure to which civil pay of the individual concerned is debatable.
3. An officer of the Provincial Medical Service, who is in receipt of a special pay at the time of his deputation for training
in jail administration, will not be entitled to draw the same during the period of his training except on the production of a
certificate from the Director of Medical and Health Services, to the effect that but for his deputation the officer would
have continued to draw the special pay.
4. The pay of government servants awarded foreign scholarships who under rule 9(6)(b) are treated as on duty during
the tenure of the scholarships, shall be limited to the amount of the scholarship.
Exception - The above order does not apply to government servants who are granted Rockfeller Fellowships.
Government servants selected for Rockfeller Foundation Fellowships should, as a rule, be granted the following terms:
(1)
Pay that the scholars would have drawn had they remained on duty in India, subject to usual restrictions in hard
currency areas. In case family allowance is granted by the Rockfeller Foundation, pay will not be admissible.
(2)
No compensatory allowance will be admissible.
(3)
Period of absence will be treated as duty and not as leave, except in the case of those who are granted family
allowance. In such cases, the period of absence should be treated as extraordinary leave and, as required under
Fundamental Rule 85, the consent of the scholar should be obtained in writing before such leave is granted.
(4)
Page 14/98
----- PAGE 15 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
The stipend, travelling expenses and other allowances granted by the Rockfeller Foundation, other than the family
allowance, will be admissible.
21.
Time-scale of pay - Rules 22 to 29 inclusive and rule 31 apply to time-scales of pay generally.
22. [
[This amended rule shall be deemed to have come into force w.e.f. 1-7-1979, vide Notification No. G-2-692/X-303-81,
dated 26-7-1988.]
The initial substantive pay of a government servant who is appointed substantively to a post on a time-scale of pay is
regulated as follows:
(a)
If he holds a lien on a permanent post, other than a tenure post, or would hold a lien on such a post had his lien not
been suspended-
(i)
when appointment to the new post involves the assumption of duties or responsibilities of greater importance (as
interpreted for the purposes of rule 30) than those attaching to such permanent post, he will draw as initial pay the stage
of the time-scale next above his substantive pay in respect of the old post;
(ii)
[ (a) when appointment to the new post does not involve such assumption, of duties and responsibilities of greater
importance, he shall draw as initial pay, the stage of the time-scale which is equal to his pay in respect of the old post
held by him on regular basis, or, if there is no such stage, the stage next above his pay in respect of the old post held by
him on regular basis:
Provided that where the minimum pay of the time-scale of the new post is higher than his pay in respect of the post held
be him regularly he shall draw that minimum as the initial pay:
Provided further that in a case where pay is fixed at the same stage, he shall continue to draw that pay until such time
as he would have received an increment in the time-scale of the old post, in cases where pay is fixed at the higher
stage, he shall get his next increment on completion of the period when an increment is earned in the time-scale of the
new post.
(b)
On appointment on regular basis to such a new post, other than to an ex-cadre post on deputation, the Government
servant shall have the option to be exercised within one month from the date of such appointment, for fixation of his pay
in the new post with effect from the date of appointment to the new post or with effect from the date of increment in the
old post.]
(iii)
when appointment to the new post is made on his own request under rule 15(a) and the maximum pay in the time-scale
of that post is less than his substantive pay in respect of the old post he will draw that maximum as initial pay.
(b)
If the conditions prescribed in clause (a) are not fulfilled, he will draw as initial pay the minimum of the time-scale:
Provided that where a Government servant holding a post in a temporary or officiating capacity and drawing pay in a pay
scale, the maximum of which (exceeds Rs. 1,200 of 1,720 in the scales of pay introduced with effect from August 1,
1972 or July 1, 1979) respectively, or Rs. 2,050 with effect from January 1, 1984 (in respect of scale of pay introduced
with effect from July 1, 1979) is appointed or promoted to another post carrying duties or responsibilities of greater
importance, his initial pay in the time-scale of the higher post will be fixed at the stage next above the pay drawn in the
pay scale, of the lower post. The benefit of pay so fixed is, however, restricted to the period during which the
Government servant would have continued to work on the lower post but for his appointment/ promotion to the higher
post.
Provided, both in cases covered by clause (a) and in cases, other than cases of re-employment after resignation or
removal or dismissal from the public service, covered by clause (b), that if he either-
(1)
has previously held substantively or officiated in -
(i)
the same post, or
Page 15/98
----- PAGE 16 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
(ii)
a permanent post or temporary post on the same time-scale, or
(iii)
a permanent post, other than a tenure post, on an identical time-scale, or a temporary post on an identical time-scale,
such post being on the same time-scale as a permanent post; or
(2)
is appointed substantively to a tenure post on a time-scale identical with that of another tenure post which he has
previously held substantively or in which he has previously officiated,
then the initial pay shall not be less than the pay, other than special pay, personal pay or emoluments classed as pay by
the Governor under rule 9(21) (iii), which he drew on the last such occasion, and he shall count the period during which
he drew that pay on such last and any previous occasions for increments in the stage of the time-scale equivalent to that
pay. If, however, the pay last drawn by the Government servant in a temporary post has been inflated by the grant of
premature increments, the pay which he would have drawn but for the grant of those increments shall be taken for the
purposes of this proviso to be the pay which he last drew in the temporary post.
Exception - The condition in paragraph (iii) of the first proviso that the temporary post should be on the same time-scale
as a permanent post shall not be enforced when a temporary post is (i) created by one Government or Department for
the purpose of work of the same nature as the ordinary work for which permanent posts exist in a cadre under a different
Government or Department, and (ii) sanctioned or a time-scale identical with the time-scale applicable to the permanent
posts in the cadre under the different Government or Department.
(c)
when, after initial fixation of pay in the pay scales introduced with effect from July 1, 1979, appointment is made to a
selection grade post in a substantive or officiating capacity, the pay will be fixed at the stage next above the pay in
respect of the ordinary grade and the stage next above the pay in respect of the ordinary grade and the benefit of the
second proviso of F.R. 30 may be extended in such cases subject to all the conditions of that Rule being satisfied.
Notes - (1) If the Government servant is entitled to overseas pay in the new post but was not drawing overseas pay in
the old post, the overseas pay in the new post, shall not be taken into account in determining the stage in the time-scale
of the new post to which he is entitled under clause (a)
(2)
For the purposes of this rule sterling overseas pay shall be converted into rupees at such rate of exchange as the
Government may by order prescribe.]
Auditor-General's decision under rule 22
(1)
[* * *] A government servant when appointed to a post substantively while officiating in it, is entitled to have his pay fixed
a new under [* * *] Fundamental Rule 22 with reference to his substantive pay at the time in respect of his old permanent
post.
[Auditor-General's letter No. T-1176-A/170-34, dated September 11, 1934].
(2)
The words 'the stage of the time-scale next above his substantive pay in respect of the old post' occurring in clause (a)(i)
of this rule means the stage in the time-scale which is next in amount above his substantive pay, although the time-scale
of the new post may carry only biennial increments.
Illustration - An officer in receipt of substantive pay of Rs. 350 in a permanent post in the scale of Rs.
275-25-500-E.B.-30-650-E.B.-30-800 was appointed to officiate in a post involving higher responsibilities in the scale of
Rs. 350-350-380-380-30-590-E.B.-30-770-40-850. It was declared that the latter time-scale carrying biennial increments
for the relevant stages, viz. Rs. 350 and Rs. 380. It was agreed that his substantive pay in the scale of Rs. 275-800
being Rs. 350 per mensem his officiating pay in the scale of Rs. 350-850 may be fixed at Rs. 380 instead of at the
second stage of Rs. 350 per mensem.
Audit instructions regarding Rule 22
1. [Deleted.]
2. When the next increment in the time-scale of either the new or the old post falls due, the government servant should
draw the next increment in the time-scale of the new post, and forthwith lose the personal pay and all connexion with the
time-scale of his old post. The personal pay is given to a government servant only for the purpose of initial pay and not
Page 16/98
----- PAGE 17 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
at any subsequent stage in the new time-scale in which the government servant might draw less pay than he would
have drawn had he remained in the old time-scale.
3. [Deleted.]
4. A time-scale may be of recent introduction whereas the cadre or class to which it is attached may have been in
existence on a graded scale before the time-scale came into force or it may be that one time-scale has taken the place
of another. If a government servant has held substantively or officiated in a post in the cadre or class prior to the
introduction of a new scale and has drawn during the period salary or pay equal to a stage, or intermediate between two
stages, in the new time-scale, then the initial pay in the new time-scale may be fixed at the salary or pay last drawn and
the period during which it was drawn may be counted for increment in the same stage, or if the salary or pay was
intermediate between two stages, in the lower stage of that time-scale.
5. The expression "if he holds a lien on a permanent post" occurring in clause (a) of Fundamental Rule 22 should be
held to include the lien on a permanent post to which a government servant is appointed in a provisional substantive
capacity under Fundamental Rule 14(d), and the expression "substantive pay in respect of the old post" occurring in that
rule should be held to include his substantive pay in respect of that provisional substantive appointment. Fundamental
Rule 22(a) should therefore be held to permit the substantive pay in respect of a provisional substantive appointment
being taken into account in determining his initial pay in another post to which he is appointed. When the initial pay of a
government servant in a post is thus fixed, it will not be affected even if during the tenure of his appointment to that post
he reverts from his provisional appointment.
Orders of the Governor regarding Rule 22
1. For the purpose of clause (a) of Fundamental Rule 22, a declaration as to the relative degrees of responsibility of two
posts should be obtained from the appointing authority or the Government in the administrative department according as
the posts are in the same or different departments.
2. A temporary post on a certain rate of pay (fixed or time-scale) which is converted into a permanent post on the same
of a different rate of pay is not the "same post" as the permanent post even though the duties remain the same, In other
words in view of rule 9(30) the temporary post is to be regarded as having ceased to exits and to have been replaced by
the permanent post. The incumbent of the temporary post is thus entitled only to the pay of the permanent post if it is on
a fixed rate of pay or to the minimum pay of the time-scale of the permanent post if it is on a time-scale unless his case
is covered by the concession admissible under provisos (1)(ii) and (1)(iii) to rule 22.
22A.
The initial substantive pay of a government servant who is appointed substantively to a post on a time-scale of pay
which has been reduced for reasons other than a diminution in the duties or responsibilities attached to posts thereon
and who is not entitled to draw pay on the time-scale as it stood prior to reduction, is regulated by rule 22:
Provided that-
(a)
if he is appointed to a post in another service which is reserved for the service to which he belongs, his initial pay shall
be fixed at a stage which approximates as closely as possible to the initial pay which he would have drawn in the
unreduced scale, and
(b)
both in cases covered by clause (a) of that rule and in cases, other than those of re-employment after resignation or
removal or dismissal from the public service, covered by clause (b), if he either-
(1)
has previously held substantively or officiated in-
(i)
the same post prior or reduction of its time-scale, or
(ii)
a permanent post or temporary post on the same time-scale as the unreduced time-scale of the post, or
(iii)
a permanent post other than a tenure post, or a temporary post, on a time-scale of pay identical with the unreduced
time-scale of the post, such temporary post being on the same time-scale as a permanent post, or
(2)
is appointed substantively to a tenure post the time-scale of which has been reduced without a diminution in the duties
Page 17/98
----- PAGE 18 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
or responsibilities attached to it, and has previously held substantively or officiated in another tenure post on a
time-scale identical with the unreduced time-scale of the tenure post,
then the initial pay shall not be less than the pay, other than special pay, personal pay or emoluments classed as pay by
the Governor under rule 9(21)(iii) which he would have drawn under rule 22 on the last such occasion if the reduced
time-scale of pay had been in force from the beginning and he shall count for increments the period during which he
would have drawn that pay on such last and any previous occasions:
Provided further that the initial pay of a government servant who was in service on January 1, 1922, shall not be less
than the initial pay admissible to him under rule 22.
22B.
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules, where a government servant holding a post in a substantive,
temporary or officiating capacity is promoted or appointed either in a substantive, temporary or officiating capacity to
another post carrying duties and responsibilities of greater importance than those attached to the post held by him, his
initial pay in the time-scale of the higher post shall be fixed at the stage next above the pay arrived at by notionally
increasing his pay in respect of the lower post by one increment at the stage at which such pay has accrued:
Provided that-
(i)
the provisions of this rule shall not apply where a government servant holding a post in a substantive, temporary or
officiating capacity and drawing pay in a pay scale the maximum of which exceeds Rs. 900 p.m., Rs. 1200 p.m. or [Rs.
2050]
[This amendment come into force with effect from January 1, 1984 vide Notification No. G-2-29/X-301-81 dated
December 12, 1984.]
p.m. respectively in the scales introduced with effect from April 1, 1965, August 1, 1972, or July 1, 1979, is appointed in
a substantive, temporary or officiating capacity to a post carrying higher duties or responsibilities:
(ii)
the provisions of Fundamental Rule 22-B (1) shall be deemed to have been made applicable without any pay limit with
effect from January 1, 1988:
Provided further that the provision of sub-rule (2) of Fundamental Rule 31 shall not be applicable in any case where the
initial pay is fixed under this rule:
Provided also that where a government servant is immediately before his promotion or appointment to a higher post,
drawing pay at the maximum of the time-scale of the lower post, his initial pay in the time-scale of the higher post shall
be fixed at the stage next above the pay notionally arrived at by increasing his pay in respect of the lower post by an
amount equal to the last increment in the time-scale of the lower post:
Provided that if a government servant either:
(1)
has previously held substantively or officiated in-
(i)
the same post, or
(ii)
a permanent or temporary post on the same time-scale, or
(iii)
a permanent post other than a tenure post or a temporary post on an identical time-scale, or
(2)
is appointed substantively to a tenure post on a time-scale identical with that of another tenure post which he has
previously held substantively, or in which he has previously officiated;
The proviso to Fundamental Rule 22 shall apply in the matter of the initial fixation of pay and counting of previous
service for increment.
(2)
(i)
If as a result of fixation of initial pay under sub-rule (1) there arises an anomaly, namely, that the rate of pay admissible
to a government servant on the higher post would exceed that of another government servant senior to him in the lower
Page 18/98
----- PAGE 19 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
grade or scale and promoted earlier to another identical post the pay of the latter shall with effect from the date of
promotion or appointment of the former be stepped up by the Government to an amount admissible to the former as pay
fixed under sub-rule (1) subject, however, to the following conditions:
(a)
the junior and the senior government servants belong to the same cadre and the posts to which they have been
promoted or appointed are identical and in the same cadre;
(b)
the time-scale of pay for the lower and higher posts in which the junior and the senior government servants are entitled
to draw their pay is identical;
(c)
the anomaly referred to above must have arisen as a direct result of the application of sub-rule (1) and not for any other
reason;
Explanation - (1) If the government servant is allowed a higher pay to start within a time-scale regard being had to his
having been previously in any other employment under government, and subsequently upon his promotion or
appointment to the higher post, there is fixation made of initial pay under sub-rule (1), the anomaly resulting vis-a-vis the
rate of pay admissible to the senior Government servant on the higher post shall not be deemed for purposes of this
sub-rule to arise as a direct result of the application of this rule.
Explanation - (2) If a government servant has, on account of getting advance increment in his lower post, received more
pay from time to time, than the senior government servant appointed or promoted earlier to the higher post and
subsequently there is fixation of pay under sub-rule (1) in the case of the former, then also the initial fixation of pay
under sub-rule (1) shall not be deemed, for purposes of this sub-rule to arise as a direct result of the application of
sub-rule (1).
(d)
the senior government servant shall draw his next increment on completion of the requisite qualifying service with effect
from the date of such stepping up of his pay.
(ii)
The provisions of this rule shall apply also in case of promotion to an ex-cadre post if the government servant has been
appointed in the time-scale of pay pertaining to the higher ex-cadre post without any condition being attached to the
effect that while working on the higher ex-cadre post he shall draw any deputation allowance or special pay in addition to
the pay in the time-scale for the lower post;
Note - 1. The provisions of this rule shall not apply to cases of appointment from an ex-cadre post to a cadre post.
Note - 2. In cases of appointment/promotion from one ex-cadre post to another ex-cadre post where the official opts to
draw pay in the scale of the ex-cadre post, the pay in the second or subsequent ex-cadre posts should be fixed under
F.R. 22-B (1) with reference to pay in the cadre post only.
(iii)
The pay of a government servant on reversion to his old lower post or to some other post in the same time-scale of pay
shall be such as he will have actually drawn if he had not been promoted to the higher post. If the pay of a government
servant has already been fixed under Fundamental Rule 27, then, on reversion, his pay will be re-fixed under
Fundamental Rule 27 giving to him also, the benefit of his service rendered in the higher post according to Fundamental
Rule 26 (c);
(iv)
If a government servant is reverted from a higher post to such lower post, the time-scale of pay of which is higher than
that of the post in which he drew his pay before being appointed to the higher post, then, in that case, the pay
admissible to him on such intermediary post shall be fixed according to this rule.
22C.
Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules, where a Government servant who does not hold a lien on any
permanent post is appointed either in a substantive, temporary or officiating capacity to another post carrying duties and
responsibilities of lesser or same importance than those attached to the post held by him, and, in cases not covered by
Fundamental Rules, 22, 22-B or 26(c), his initial pay in the time scale of the lower or the equivalent post shall be fixed at
the stage arrived at by allowing over the minimum of the time-scale of such post one increment for each completed year
of service rendered in the previous post provided that the pay so fixed shall not exceed-
Page 19/98
----- PAGE 20 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
(a)
the pay last drawn in the previous post, and
(b)
the maximum of the scale of the new post:
Provided further that where the new post is in an identical time-scale of pay, the pay of such Government servant shall
be fixed at the stage last drawn in the previous post and service rendered in it at that stage shall count for increments in
the scale of pay of the new post:
Provided further that where the new post is in an equivalent scale of pay, pay of such Government servant shall be fixed
at the stage next below the pay last drawn and the difference will be made good by the grant of a personal pay under
Fundamental Rule 9 (23) (b) which will be absorbed in future increments.
Note - The provisions of this rule shall not apply to cases of appointments from an ex-cadre post to a cadre post.
23.
(1)
The holder of a post the pay of which is changed shall be treated as if he were transferred to a new post on the new pay;
provided that he may at his option retain his old pay until the date on which he has earned his next or any subsequent
increment on the old scale, or until he vacates his post or ceases to draw pay on that time-scale. The option once
exercised is final.
(2)
[ Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (1) above, a Government servant may, insofar as the option for the new
scales of pay introduced with effect from April 1, 1965 is concerned, elect the said new scales of pay either from the
aforesaid date or from the date of his next increment in the old scale of pay falling immediately after the said date, and
the like option shall be separately available to him in respect of the post, if any, on which he may be officiating.]
[The amended sub-rule (2) shall be deemed to have come into force w.e.f. 1-1-1986, vide Notification No.
G-2-818/X-303-83, dated 4-8-1989.]
[Note 1. - Sub-rule (2) of F.R. 23 will also apply mutatis mutandis to cases of option for the new scales of pay introduced
with effect from August 1, 1972 or July 1, 1979 subject to the condition that it will also apply to cases of option where a
Government servant elects the new scales of pay from the date of his appointment falling between August 1, 1972 and
March 7, 1973 or July 1, 1979 and September 30, 1981 respectively.]
[The note shall be deemed to have come into force w.e.f. 1-7-1979, vide Notification No. G-2-1697/X-534, dated
25-6-1983.]
[Note 2. - Sub-rule (2) of F.R. 23 will also apply mutatis mutandis to cases of option for the new scales of pay introduced
with effect from January 1, 1986, to the condition that a Government servant may elect the said new scales of pay from
the date of his next or any subsequent increment or from the date of his appointment falling between January 1, 1986
and March 31, 1989 (both dates inclusive)]
[The note shall be deemed to have come into force w.e.f. 1-1-1986, vide Notification No. G-2-523/X-308-89, dated
16-8-1989.]
Audit instructions regarding Rule 23
1. If the maximum pay of a post is altered with no change the rate of increment and the minimum, the initial pay of the
holder of that post should be fixed under rule 22(b) and not under rule 22(a), even though he may be holding the post
substantively.
2. This rule applies to an officiating as well as to a substantive holder of a post.
3. The expression "subsequent increment on the old scale" in the proviso to rule 23 should be held to include grade
promotion in cases in which a time-scale of pay has been substituted for a graded scale of pay.
Orders of the Governor regarding Rule 23
In connection with the application of Fundamental Rule 23 and the Audit Instruction below it, a question was raised
whether an official officiating in a higher scale on the date from which different posts on different scales in the same
cadre were merged in a common scale, could exercise, under Fundamental Rule 23, the option of retaining his
officiating pay in old higher scale when all the posts of the different categories were on the same new scale from that
date and no higher responsibility was involved.
The Governor has decided that the words "his old pay" occurring in the proviso to the rule should be held to include not
only the rate at which the individual was drawing his officiating pay on the crucial date but also the time-scale of pay in
Page 20/98
----- PAGE 21 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
which he was drawing that pay. Thus for the period of option the old scale of pay in which he was drawing his officiating
pay should be treated as continuing for the individual concerned and since he is entitled to retain his old pay during that
period his drawing of that pay under the option need not depend on whether the constructive officiating appointment
after the crucial date does or does not involve the assumption of duties and responsibilities of greater importance. The
option, however, ceases to operate once the individual concerned constructively ceases to officiate in the post or ceases
to draw pay in the particular scale in which he was drawing the officiating pay.
Both the substantive part of Fundamental Rule 23 and its proviso cannot be operative at one and the same time. For the
period during which the option exercised under the proviso operates, the substantive portion of the rule remains
inoperative. Failure to exercise the option from whatever cause entails forfeiture of the benefit of the rule.
24.
An increment shall ordinarily be drawn as a matter of course unless it is withheld. An increment may be withheld from a
government servant by the Government, or by any authority to whom the Government may delegate this power under
rule 6, if his conduct has not been good or his work has not been satisfactory. In ordering the withholding of an
increment, the withholding authority shall state the period for which it is withheld, and whether the postponement shall
have the effect of postponing future increments.
25.
Where an efficiency bar is prescribed in a time-scale the increment next above the bar shall not be given to a
government servant without the specific sanction of the authority empowered to withhold increments.
Orders of the Governor regarding Rule 25
1. On each occasion on which a government servant is allowed to pass an efficiency bar which had previously been
enforced against him, he should come on to the time-scale at such stage as the authority competent to declare the bar
removed may fix for him, subject to the pay admissible according to his length of service.
2. The cases of all persons held up at the efficiency bar should be reviewed annually by the withholding authorities with
a view to determine whether the quality of their work has improved, and generally whether the defects for which they
were stopped at the bar have been remedied to an extent sufficient to warrant the removal of the bar.
26. [
[Substituted by Notification No. G-2-1253/X-316-73, dated 24th June, 1978 (w.e.f. 1-4-1978).]
The following provisions prescribe the conditions on which service counts for increments in a time-scale:
(a)
All duty in a post on a time-scale counts for increments in that time-scale:
Provided that, for the purpose of arriving at the date of the next increment in that time-scale the total of all such periods
as do not count for increment in that time-scale, shall be added to the normal date of increment:
Provided further that increments falling due after the 1st of April, 1978, shall accrue on the first day of the month in which
they would have accrued:
(b)
(i)
Service in another post, other than a post carrying less pay referred to in clause (a) of rule 15, whether in a substantive
or officiating capacity, service on deputation out of India and leave except extraordinary leave taken otherwise than on
medical certificate shall count for increments in the time-scale applicable to the post on which the government servant
holds a lien, as well as in the time scale applicable to the post or posts, if any, on which he would hold a lien had his lien
not been suspended:
(ii)
All leave except extraordinary leave taken otherwise than on medical certificate and the period of deputation out of India
shall count for increment in the time-scale applicable to a post in which a government servant was officiating at the time
he proceeded on leave or deputation out of India and would have continued to officiate but for his proceeding on leave
or deputation out of India:
Provided that the Governor may, in any case in which he is satisfied that the extraordinary leave was taken for any
cause beyond the Government servant's control or for prosecuting higher scientific and technical studies direct that
extraordinary leave shall be counted for increments under clause (i) or (ii).]
(The amendment shall be deemed to have come into force with effect from April 1, 1978).
(c)
Page 21/98
----- PAGE 22 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
If a government servant, while officiating in a post or holding a temporary post in a time-scale of pay is appointed to
officiate in a higher post or to hold a higher temporary post, his officiating or temporary service in the higher post shall, if
he is re-appointed to the lower post or is appointed or re-appointed to a post on the same time-scale of pay, count for
increments in the time-scale applicable to such lower post. The period of officiating service in the higher post which
counts for increment in the lower is, however, restricted to the period during which the government servant would have
officiated in the lower post but for his appointment to the higher. This clause applies also to a government servant who is
not actually officiating in the lower post at the time of his appointment to the higher post, but who would have so
officiated in such lower post or in a post on the same time-scale of pay had he not been appointed to the higher post.
Audit instruction regarding rule 26 (c)
The intention of this rule is to allow the concession, irrespective of whether the higher post is within or outside the
department to which the government servant belongs.
(d)
(Deleted)
.
(e)
Foreign service counts for increments in the time-scale applicable to-
(i)
the post in government service on which the government servant concerned holds a lien as well as the post or posts, if
any, on which he would hold a lien had his lien not been suspended.
(ii)
the post in government service in which the government servant was officiating immediately before his transfer to foreign
service, for so long as he would have continued to officiate in that post or a post on the same time-scale but for his going
on foreign service, and
(iii)
any post to which he may receive officiating promotion under rule 113, for the duration of such promotion.
Orders of the Governor regarding Rule 26
(i)
A government servant, who has elected to remain under the leave rules contained in the Civil Service Regulations, is
entitled to the benefit of Article 210 of those Regulations and in his case the application of that article has the effect of
overriding the definition of the word "lien" in rule 9(13) for the purpose of the interpretation of that word in rule 26(b).
(ii)
The practice of making appointments in a substantive capacity against temporary posts shall be discontinued altogether.
Even those government servants who have already been appointed on temporary posts in a substantive capacity will be
allowed to count the periods of leave for increments in such temporary posts only to the extent indicated in
sub-paragraph (iii) below. The certificate on the lines indicated in that sub-paragraph will, however, not be necessary in
such cases.
(iii)
Periods of leave on average pay up to a maximum of four months, and earned leave up to a maximum of one hundred
and twenty days, taken at a time shall count for increments in the scale attached to the post, whether permanent or
temporary, in which a government servant was officiating at the time of proceeding on leave provided the appointing
authority certifies in each case that the government servant concerned would actually have continued to officiate in the
post but for his proceeding on leave, and the period of leave will count for increment only to the extent it is covered by
the certificate. Joining time under rule 105(b) following leave should count for increments in the scale attached to the
post, whether temporary or permanent, in which a government servant is officiating at the time of proceeding on leave
and would have continued to officiate but for his proceeding on leave and joining time taken, if any, subject to the
condition that leave on average pay/ earned leave plus joining time does not exceed 4 months/120 days.
(iv)
For the purpose of Fundamental Rule 26(c), the officiating and temporary service in the higher pots will include the
period of leave which counts for increments in that post under sub-paragraph (iii) above.
(v)
For the purpose of clause (c) of this rule, the officiating and temporary service in the higher post will also include the
Page 22/98
----- PAGE 23 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
period of leave on average pay for four months or earned leave up to a maximum of 120 days taken at a time, provided
it is certified by the appointing authority that the government servant concerned would have actually officiated in the
lower post but for proceeding on leave from the higher post.
(vi)
Under clause (b) of this rule, the periods of leave on average pay up to a maximum of four months and earned leave up
to a maximum of 120 days taken at a time can count for increments in the time-scale applicable to the post in which a
government servant was officiating at the time of proceeding on leave, if it is certified by the appointing authority that he
would have continued to officiate in that post but for his proceeding on leave. The certificate envisaged in the rule may
be furnished by competent authority, if necessary, in respect of more than one person for the same post and for the
same period of leave, subject, of course, to other considerations namely, their continuance otherwise in the post in
question.
Audit instructions regarding Rule 26
1. A period of overstayal of leave does not count towards increments under the Fundamental Rules.
2. If a probationer is confirmed at the end of a period of probation exceeding twelve months, he is entitled to claim
retrospectively the increments which, but for his probation, he would have received in the ordinary course.
3. In the case of a government servant who, while officiating in one post, is appointed to officiate in another, the period
of joining time spent in proceeding from one post to the other should be treated as duty in the post, the pay of which the
government servant draws during the period and will count for increment in the same post under clause (a) of the rule.
4. In the case of a government servant who, while officiating in a post, proceeds on training or to attend a course of
instruction and who is treated as on duty while under training, the period of such duty will count for increment in the post
in which he was officiating prior to his being sent for training or instruction if he is allowed the pay of the officiating post
during such period.
5. Although joining time taken under Fundamental Rule 105 (b) and (c) is treated as duty under Fundamental Rule
9(6)(a)(ii), it cannot be treated as duty for the purposes of increment in an officiating post inasmuch as only leave-salary
is drawn for the period. This restriction will not, however, apply to the joining time under sub-clause (i) of rule 105 (b),
provided the leave on average pay/earned leave plus joining time availed of does not exceed 4 months/120 days and it
is certified that the government servant would have continued to officiate but for his proceeding on leave and joining
time.
27.
An authority may grant a premature increment to a government servant on a time-scale of pay if it has power to create a
post in the same cadre on the same scale of pay.
Orders of the Governor regarding Rule 27
The authorities subordinate to the Government to whom power has been delegated to create temporary posts subject to
certain limitations regarding rates of pay, period, etc. can under the above rule grant premature increments to holders of
temporary posts created by them. Under rule 7, however, the Government have decided that such subordinate
authorities as have been empowered to create temporary posts shall not grant premature increments to the holders of
such posts unless they are specially authorized by the Government to do so and then only to such extent as may be
specified by the Government.
28.
The authority which orders the transfer of a government servant as a penalty from a higher to a lower grade or post may
allow him to draw any pay, not exceeding the maximum of the lower grade or post, which it may think proper:
Provided that the pay allowed to be drawn by a government servant under this rule shall not exceed the pay which he
would have drawn by the operation of rule 22 read with clause (b) or clause (c), as the case may be, of rule 26.
Orders of the Governor regarding rule 28
There is nothing in these rules to prevent a reduction of pay from a higher to a lower stage in the same time-scale as a
disciplinary measure.
29.
(1)
If a Government servant is reduced as a measure of penalty to a lower stage in his time-scale, the authority ordering
such reduction shall state the period for which it shall be effective and whether, on restoration, it shall operate to
postpone future increments and, if so, to what extent.
Page 23/98
----- PAGE 24 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
(2)
If a government servant is reduced as a measure of penalty to a lower grade or post, the authority ordering the reduction
may or may not specify the period for which the reduction shall be effective; but where the period is specified, that
authority shall also state whether, on restoration, the period of reduction shall operate to postpone future increments
and, if so, to what extent.
Orders of the Governor regarding rule 29
1. Normally even in cases of reduction to a lower grade or post, the period of punishment should be specified and, if this
is not done for some exceptional reasons, those reasons must be recorded in writing by the authority ordering the
reduction.
2. (a) Every order passed by a competent authority imposing on a government servant the penalty of reduction to a
lower stage in a time-scale should indicate:
(i)
the date from which it will take effect and the period (in terms of years and months) for which the penalty shall be
operative;
(ii)
the stages in the time-scale (in terms of rupees) to which the government servant is reduced; and
(iii)
the extent (in terms of years and months), if any, to which the period referred to at (i) above should operate to postpone
future increments.
It should be noted that reduction to a lower stage in a time-scale is not permissible under the rules either for an
unspecified period or as a permanent measure. Also when a government servant is reduced to a particular stage, his
pay will remain constant at that stage for the entire period of reduction.
The period to be specified under (iii) should in no case exceed the period under (i);
(b)
The question as to what should be the pay of a government servant on the expiry of the period of reduction should be
decided as follows:
(i)
if the order of reduction lays down that the period of reduction shall not operate to postpone future increments, the
government servant shall be allowed the pay which he would have drawn in the normal course but for the reduction. If,
however, the pay drawn by him immediately before reduction was below the efficieney bar he should not be allowed to
cross the bar except in accordance with the provisions of Fundamental Rule 25;
(ii)
if the order specifies that the period of reduction was to operate to postpone future increments for any specified period,
the pay of the government servant shall be fixed in accordance with (i) above but after treating the period for which the
increments were to be postponed as not counting for increments.
3.
(1)
Under sub-rule (2) of Fundamental Rule 29, if a government servant is reduced as a measure of penalty to a lower
grade or post, the authority ordering the reduction may or may not specify the period for which the reduction shall be
effective, but where the period is specified, that authority shall also state whether, on restoration, the period of reduction
shall operate to postpone future increments, and if so, to what extent. Where the period of reduction is specified in the
order of penalty the government servant concerned shall be automatically restored to his old post after the expiry of the
specified period.
(2)
The question as to what should be the pay of a government servant on restoration to the higher post/grade, in cases
where the period of reduction is specified, shall be decided as follows:
(i)
if the order of reduction lays down that the period shall not operate to postpone future increments, the government
servant shall be allowed the pay which he would have drawn in normal course but for his reduction to the lower post. If
the pay drawn by him immediately before reduction was below the efficiency bar, he shall not be allowed to cross the
bar except in accordance with the provisions of Fundamental Rule 25;
Page 24/98
----- PAGE 25 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
(ii)
if the order lays down that the period of reduction shall operate to postpone his future increments for any specified
period which shall not exceed the period of reduction to the lower post/grade, the pay of the government servant on
restoration shall be fixed in accordance with (i) above but after treating the period for which increments are to be
postponed as not counting for increments.
In cases where the reduction to the lower post/grade is for an unspecified period, if and when the government servant is
re-appointed to the higher post in the normal course, the pay in the higher post will be regulated only in accordance with
normal rules relating to pay fixation.
Audit instructions regarding rule 29
1. The change from rupee to sterling overseas pay, or the grant of an increased rate of sterling overseas pay, should be
regarded as an increment and should, therefore, not take effect if a government servant is debarred by the stoppage of
an increment from drawing the corresponding rate of rupee basic pay.
2. Having regard to the principle underlying Fundamental Rule 29, the question as to whether an increment falling due
during the period of reduction should or should not be allowed is one necessarily to be decided with reference to the
exact terms of the orders of the punishing authority. If the Audit Officer feels any doubt about the intention underlying the
orders of the punishing authority, he has simply to ascertain it and act accordingly.
29A.
Where an order of penalty of withholding of increment of a government servant or his reduction to a lower grade or post,
or to a lower time-scale, or to a lower stage in time-scale, is set aside or modified by a competent authority on appeal or
review, the pay of the government servant shall, notwithstanding anything contained in these rules, be regulated in the
following manner:
(a)
If the said order is set aside, he shall be given, for the period such order has been in force, the difference between the
pay to which he would have been entitled had that order not been made and the pay he had actually drawn;
(b)
if the said order is modified, the pay shall be regulated as if the order as so modified had been made in the first instance.
Explanation - If the pay drawn by a government servant in respect of any period prior to the issue of the orders of the
competent authority under this rule is revised, the leave salary and allowances (other than travelling allowance), if any,
admissible to him during that period shall be revised on the basis of the revised pay.
30.
Pay of officiating government servants:
(1)
Subject to the provisions of Chapter VI, a government servant who is appointed to officiate in a post shall not draw pay
higher than his substantive pay in respect of a permanent post, other than a tenure post, unless the post in which the
appointment is made in an officiating capacity belongs to a Selection Grade of a service, or, unless the officiating
appointment involves the assumption of duties and responsibilities of greater importance than those attaching to the
post, on which he holds a lien or would hold a lien had his lien not been suspended:
Provided that the Government, subject to such conditions as they may prescribe, may exempt from the operation of this
rule any service which is not organized on a time-scale basis and in which the system of officiating promotion from grade
is in force.
Provided further that Government may specify posts outside the ordinary line of a service the holders of which may,
notwithstanding the provisions of this rule and subject to such conditions as the Government may prescribe, be given
any officiating promotion in the cadre of the service which the authority competent to order promotion may decide, and
may thereupon be granted the same pay (whether with or without any special pay attached to such posts) as they would
have received if still in the ordinary line.
Note - The pay on an officiating appointment to a Selection Grade post which does not involve assumption of duties or
responsibilities of greater importance may be fixed under the provisions of F.R. 22 (a) (ii) and the benefit of the second
proviso of this rule may be extended in such cases subject to all the conditions of that rule being satisfied.
(This amendment shall be deemed to have come into force with effect from the date of its publication in the Gazette, i.e.
May 12, 1973.)
(2)
Page 25/98
----- PAGE 26 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
[ For the purpose of this Rule, the officiating appointment shall not be deemed to involve the assumption of duties or
responsibilities of greater importance if the post to which it is made is on the same scale of pay as the permanent post,
other than a tenure post, on which he holds a lien or would hold a lien had his lien not been suspended or on a scale of
pay identical therewith.]
[This note shall be deemed to have come into force w.e.f. 1-1-1986, vide Notification No. G-2-523/X-303-89, dated
16-8-1989.]
Audit instructions regarding the second proviso to clause (1) of Rule 30
It is not intended that the phrase "outside the ordinary line of a service" in the second proviso to clause (1) of
Fundamental Rule 30 should be rigidly interpreted either as "outside the cadre of a service" or as "outside the ordinary
time-scale".
The specification of a post under this proviso will enable a government servant to count service in that post for increment
in the grade in which he would have officiated had he not been holding the specified post.
Order of the Governor regarding Rule 30
For the purpose of rule 30, a declaration as to the relative degrees of responsibility of two posts should be obtained from
the appointing authority or the Government in the administrative department according as the posts are in the same or
different departments.
Note - Higher officiating pay is not permissible to persons entitled to the old scales in cases where different posts on
different time-scales of pay have been merged into a single time-scale for new entrants.
In the case of ministerial and other establishments in which there are no grades in the sense in which the word is used
in the Civil Services Regulations, the first proviso is intended to cover where necessary, all cases of the grant of acting
allowances from one fixed rate of pay to another without change of duty. This applies also to the case of ministerial and
other establishment not organised on a time-scale basis in which the rates of pay are progressive.
Orders of the Governor regarding the first proviso to Rule 30 (1)
I. The conditions of rule 30 shall not apply to the services mentioned below until such time as they are reorganized on a
time-scale basis. Officiating promotion will continue therefore to be made from grade to grade as hitherto, except that in
respect of the service marked with an asterisk, officiating promotion will be permissible only on occasions and under
conditions of which sub-pro-tem promotion would be admissible under Paragraph VI of these orders.
Public Works Departments
1. Lower subordinates.
2. Deputy revenue officers, ziladars and amins*,
Forest Department
Rangers, deputy rangers, foresters and forest guards.
Revenue Department
1. Tahsildars and naib-tahsildars*.
2. Superintending kanungos*.
3. Supervisor kanungos*.
4. Patwari school teachers and assistant teachers*.
5. Kurk Amins.
Agriculture Department
1. Subordinate agriculture service*.
2. Fieldmen*.
Registration Department
1. Sub-registrars*.
Police Department
1. Inspectors and sub-inspectors*.
2. Head constables.*
3. Sergeants*.
Education Department
1. Drill instructors in the Government High and Normal Schools.
2. Teachers of model schools (boys)*.
II. The following orders do not apply to posts which are organized on a time-scale basis. Their application is restricted to
Page 26/98
----- PAGE 27 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
the other posts which the Government have exempted from the operation of rule 30. In the case of posts in which
time-scales of pay have been introduced for new entrants, the restriction to the drawal of full officiating pay admissible
under the rules will apply only to government servants eligible for the old rates of pay on substantive promotion to such
posts. If the officiating promotion from one exempted post to another involves the assumption of duties and
responsibilities of greater importance than those attaching to the post on which the government servant holds a lien or
would hold a lien had his lien not been suspended under rule 14, the officiating pay will be that admissible under rule 31,
and will not be subject to the restrictions laid down in these orders. For example, when a forester officiates as deputy
ranger, a deputy ranger as ranger, a clerk as head clerk, head assistant or office superintendent, full officiating pay
admissible under the rules will be given; but when a forest ranger of one grade officiates as forest ranger in a higher
grade, a deputy ranger officiates in a higher grade of deputy rangers, the officiating pay will be subject to the restrictions
laid down in these orders.
Note - Full officiating pay calculated under rule 31 is, however, not permissible to persons entitled to the old rates in
cases where different posts on different rates or progressive scales of pay have been merged into a single time-scale for
new entrants. In such cases also the officiating pay will be regulated under the provisions of Paragraphs IV and V below.
III. (a) A government servant without a substantive post on a permanent establishment appointed to officiate in a post
carrying fixed pay or a progressive rate of pay, as explained in Paragraph V below, well draw the full officiating pay
admissible under rule 31 provided that if the fixed pay or the minimum of the progressive scale is not less than Rs. 100
per mensem, the officiating pay will ordinarily be equal to half the pay or half the minimum pay to the post.
(b)
In special cases the pay may, with the sanction of the head of the department, be raised to an amount not exceeding the
pay admissible under rule 31. This power may, however, be exercised by heads of departments only in respect of
non-gazetted posts under their control.
(c)
A person without a substantive post in a permanent establishment appointed to hold charge of the current duties of a
post under the Government will draw, in respect of such additional duties, pay at one-tenth of the minimum pay of the
post in which he is appointed to hold charge.
Note - A section writer or a press servant who is paid for a piece work is for the purpose of these orders held to be a
government servant without a substantive post.
Example - Municipal sanitary inspectors appointed to hold charge of the current duties of municipal officers of health
during their absence on short leave.
IV. A government servant with a substantive post in one grade who officiates in a post in a higher grade in the same
establishment is entitled to an additional pay of one-fifth of the pay of the higher grade, provided his substantive pay plus
that additional pay do not exceed the pay of the higher grade in which he officiates.
V. The following provisions are applicable to government servants holding or officiating in post to which progressive
rates of pay were attached before January 1, 1922, and which have not been declared on a time-scale basis. Where
time scales have been introduced in such posts for new entrants, these provisions will not apply to government servants
entitled to pay on the time-scales.
Note - Under rule 9(31) "time-scale pay" includes the class of pay known as "progressive" before January 1, 1922. In
this paragraph the term "progressive pay" is used in contradiction to "time-scale pay" and in the sense in which it was
understood before the above date.
Explanation - Progressive pay means incremental scales which are divided into grades and in which promotion from a
lower to a higher scale depends on the occurrence of a vacancy in the higher grade as per example:
1. post on Rs. 250-10-350.
3. posts on Rs. 200-10-250.
5. posts on Rs. 150-10-200.
8. posts on Rs. 120-6-150.
10. posts on Rs. 90-6-120.
10. posts on Rs. 65-5-90.
37.
posts (all of which are in the same cadre).
(i)
Page 27/98
----- PAGE 28 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
A government servant whose substantive pay is progressive and who officiates in a post of which the pay is fixed, is
entitled to an additional pay calculated under Paragraph IV above as if his substantive pay were a fixed one equal to the
amount at which from time to time it stands.
(ii)
A government servant whose substantive pay is fixed and who officiates in a post of which the pay is progressive, is
entitled to an additional pay calculated under Paragraph IV above, upon the pay to which he would from time to time
have risen if he had held the officiating post substantively.
(iii)
The pay of a government servant whose substantive pay is progressive and who officiates in a post of which the pay is
progressive is regulated as follows:
(a)
He draws his substantive pay with increments as they fall due.
(b)
He also draws the additional pay to which he would be entitled under Paragraph IV above if the substantive and
officiating posts were both on fixed pay equal to the minimum of the respective posts.
Note - (1) The maximum limit of pay admissible under this clause is the substantive pay of the officiating servant or the
pay in the officiating post to which he would have risen if his officiating tenure had been substantive, whichever is
greater.
(2)
No government servant should be appointed to officiate in a post carrying a progressive rate of pay the average of which
is less than that of his substantive post, save for special reasons of a public nature to be recorded by the appointing
authority.
(3)
When calculating the pay of a government servant officiating in a post the whole of the officiating tenure, whether
continuous, or not should be taken into account.
VI. A government servant may be appointed substantively pro tempore on the pay admissible under Fundamental Rule
31 in place of government servant who draws no part of the pay of his post or a government servant on deputation out of
India or holding a temporary post, provided that the deputation or the temporary post lasts for six months more. The full
pay of the post of the government servant thus appointed substantively for a time may in like manner and upon the
same condition be given to a government servant similarly appointed to that post.
31.
(1)
Subject to the provisions of rules 30 and 35, a Government servant, who is appointed to officiate in a post will draw the
presumptive pay of that post.
(2)
[ On an enhancement in the substantive pay, as a result of increment or otherwise, the pay of such Government servant
shall be fixed under sub-rule (1) from the date of such enhancement as if he was appointed to officiate in that post on
that date where such refixation is to his advantage:
Provided that in so far as the new scales introduced with effect from April 1, 1965, August 1, 1972 and July 1, 1979 are
concerned, nothing in this sub-rule shall entitle the Government servant to claim refixation of pay in the post in which he
is officiating until the date of option exercised by him in respect of that post:
Provided further that nothing in the preceding proviso shall apply where the pay scale relating to the higher post has not
been revised with effect from the said date:
Provided also that the provisions of Fundamental Rule 22-B shall not be applicable in the matter of refixation of pay
under sub-rule (2).
Note - Where the increment of Government servant in the post in which he is officiating has been withheld under rule 24
or rule 25, without any reference to the increments that will accrue to him in the post held by him substantively, the
provisions contained in sub-rule (2) of this rule shall not apply before the date from which the orders withholding the
increment finally cease to be operative. However, during the period of penalty of withholding the increment, the
Government servant may be allowed pay equal to his substantive pay from time to time if the same happens to be more
than the officiating pay, the difference between the substantive pay and the officiating pay being allowed to the
Page 28/98
----- PAGE 29 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
Government servant in the shape of personal pay.]
Audit instructions regarding Rule 31
1. The pay of a government servant officiating in a post the pay of which is subject to increase upon the passing of an
examination or upon the completion of a certain period of service is the pay which he would from time to time receive if
he held the post substantively.
2. The pay of a government servant officiating in a post the pay of which has been reduced with effect from the next
succession thereto is the reduced pay.
3. [Deleted.]
4. [Deleted.]
5. Under this rule read with Fundamental Rule 22, a government servant who has no substantive post under the
Government and who is appointed to officiate in a post on a time-scale of pay, may count all periods of past
non-continuous officiating service in any stage of the time-scale for increments in that stage. A competent authority may,
however, in exercise of his powers under rule 35, order that in case of persons having no substantive post under the
government, past non-continuous officiating service shall not count for increments.
Orders of the Governor regarding Rule 31
1. Under this rule, the title of a government servant officiating in a post carrying a time-scale (or progressive rate) of pay
to the presumptive pay of the post is always subject to the provisions of rule 30. According to the latter rule, where the
officiating appointment does not involve the assumption of duties and responsibilities of greater importance than those
attaching to the post on which the government servant holds a lien or would hold a lien had his lien not been suspended,
it is not permissible for him to draw pay higher than his substantive pay in respect of a permanent post. In other words,
while these rules are not prohibitive in respect of officiating promotions in such circumstances they restrict the officiating
pay to the substantive pay, from time to time, of the government servant concerned. This means that the government
servant will continue to draw from time to time the pay which he would have drawn in his substantive appointment, and
will not be allowed increments in the scale of the pay of the post in which he officiates, but only such increments as
would have fallen due to him in his substantive post.
The case of a government servant without a lien on a permanent post and therefore, having no substantive pay in
respect of such a post, is different. Rule 30 being inapplicable in such a case, full presumptive pay is admissible
exclusively under this rule (rule 31) read with rule 22(b) unless in any individual case it is fixed by the competent
authority under rule 35 at an amount less than that admissible under the above rules or unless the post to which the
officiating appointment is made carries a fixed pay or a progressive rate of pay and the officiating pay is regulated by
Paragraph III of the orders of the Governor under the first proviso to rule 30(1).
2. Where an increment in the substantive post of a government servant falls due during a period of leave and the
refixation of officiating pay under clause (2) of the rule is to the advantage of the government servant and if the period of
leave counts for increment in the officiating post either under Fundamental Rule 26(bb) or 26(b), subject to the fulfilment
of the conditions and production of the necessary certificates, his officiating pay may be refixed under the above clause
(2) from the very date of increment or increase in substantive pay as if he was appointed to officiate in that post on that
date. The benefit of the increase in officiating pay can be had by him only from the date of resumption of duties but his
next increment in the officiating post will accrue to him from an earlier date in the next year calculated with reference to
the date of refixation of pay.
If, however, the period of leave does not count for increment in the officiating post, the government servant loses all
connections with that post during that period and he will be entitled to get his officiating pay refixed only from the date he
returns from leave in which case the next increment will fall due only after completion of prescribed period of duty from
the date of resuming charge unless he becomes entitled to refixation of pay under Fundamental Rule 31(2) once again
from an earlier date.
32.
[* * *]
33.
When a government servant officiates in a post the pay of which has been fixed at a rate personal to another
government servant, the Government may permit him to draw pay at any rate not exceeding the rate so fixed or if the
rate so fixed be a time-scale, may grant him initial pay not exceeding the lowest stage of that time-scale and future
increments not exceeding those of the sanctioned scale.
Page 29/98
----- PAGE 30 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
Audit instructions regarding Rule 33
l. This rule prescribes the initial rate of pay of a government servant officiating in a post the pay of which has been fixed
at a rate personal to another government servant. If the pay thus personally fixed is on a time-scale, it is not intended
that an officiating incumbent should be debarred from drawing increments in that time-scale according to the ordinary
rules.
2. If a government servant, who is personally qualified to draw overseas pay, is appointed to officiate in a post on a
time-scale the pay of which is fixed personally for the substantive holder of the post and includes sterling overseas pay,
the lowest stage in the time-scale, for the purposes of Fundamental Rule 33, is the minimum of the time-scale, plus the
sterling overseas pay included in the pay fixed personally for the substantive holder of the post. A local government is,
therefore, competent to grant to such officiating government servant the sterling overseas pay included in the pay fixed
personally for the substantive holder of the post.
34.
[* * *]
35.
The Government may fix the pay of an officiating government servant at an amount less than that admissible under
these rules.
Audit instructions regarding Rule 35
1. One class of cases falling under this rule is that in which a government servant merely holds charge of the current
duties and does not perform the full duties of the post.
2. When a government servant is appointed to officiate in a post on a time-scale of pay but has his pay fixed below the
minimum of the time-scale under Fundamental Rule 35, he must not be treated as having effectually officiated in that
post within the meaning of Fundamental Rule 22, or having rendered duty in it within the meaning of Fundamental Rule
26. Such a government servant, on confirmation, should have his initial pay fixed under Fundamental Rule 22(b) and
draw the next increment after he has put in duty for the usual period required calculated from the date of his
confirmation.
36.
Officiating appointment or arrangement may be made in place of government servants who are treated as on duty under
rule. 9(6)(b) subject to such general or special orders as the Governor may issue.
Orders of the Governor under Rule 36
1. Officiating appointment or arrangement may be made in the place of government servants who have joined the Army
in India Reserve of Officers when they are sent for training and who under the orders issued in G. O. no. 96/III-359,
dated the 25th January, 1928, are treated during the period of training as on duty. The additional cost involved will be
charged on the revenue of the State.
1A. Officiating promotions may be made in place of government servants who are called up for military duty in the
circumstances mentioned in the orders of the Governor regarding Fundamental Rule 9(6)(b)(i).
2. The order of the Governor under this rule allowing officiating appointment or arrangement in place of a government
servant who is treated as on duty during his period of training carries with it the consent of the Government to any
increase over the sanctioned strength without the formal creation of a temporary post.
37. Personal pay.
- Except when the authority sanctioning it orders otherwise, personal pay shall be reduced by any amount by which the
recipient's pay may be increased, and shall cease as soon as his pay is increased by an amount equal to his personal
pay.
38.
Pay of official members of the Indian Legislature.
- A government servant nominated as a member of the Central Legislative Assembly or the Council of State shall
receive, while serving on the Assembly or the Council, the pay which he would from time to time have drawn had he not
been so serving. He shall receive, in addition, such travelling allowance as the Government may fix.
Audit instruction regarding Rule 38
When a government servant is nominated as a member of the Central Legislative Assembly or the Council of State, it is
permissible for the local Government to create a temporary post for the period of his absence from his headquarters and
to appoint him thereto. Officiating arrangements can then be made under the ordinary rules for the performance of the
Page 30/98
----- PAGE 31 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
regular duties at his permanent headquarters.
39.
Pay of temporary posts.
- When a temporary post is created which may have to be filled by a person not already in Government service, the pay
of the post shall be fixed with reference to the minimum that is necessary to secure the services of a person capable of
discharging efficiently the duties of the post.
Note - Model forms of agreement for employing government servants on contract are contained in Part III-Appendix B-of
this handbook.
40.
When a temporary post is created which will probably be filled by a person who is already a government servant its pay
should be fixed with due regard to-
(a)
the character and responsibility of the work to be performed, and
(b)
the existing pay of government servants of a status sufficient to warrant their selection for the post.
Audit instruction regarding Rules 39 and 40
Under the Fundamental Rules special duty or deputation in India will not be recognised. A temporary post will be created
for the performance of that duty. If the special duty is to be undertaken in addition to the ordinary duties of the
Government servant, then rules 39 and 40 will apply.
Orders of the Governor under Rule 40
1. There is a tendency to sanction enhanced pay for all posts temporarily created without sufficient regard to the
provisions of this rule. Government, therefore, deem it expedient to lay down the following procedure to be observed in
fixing the pay of temporary posts.
2. Temporary posts may be divided into two categories - (1) posts created to perform the ordinary work for which
permanent posts already exist in a cadre, the only distinction being that the new posts are temporary and not
permanent, and (2) isolated posts created for the performance of special tasks unconnected with the ordinary works
which a service is called upon to perform. An example of the latter type of post would be a post on a commission of
enquiry. The former class of post should be considered to be a temporary addition to the cadre of a service whoever
may be the individual appointed to the post. The latter class of temporary posts should be considered as unclassified
and isolated ex-cadre posts.
3. Temporary posts which by this criterion should be considered as temporary additions to the cadre of a service should
be created in the time-scale of the service ordinarily without extra remuneration. Incumbents of these posts will therefore
draw their ordinary time-scale pay. If the posts involve decided increase in work and responsibility in comparison with
the duties of the parent cadre generally, it may be necessary to sanction a special pay in addition. In deciding the
question whether special pay in a temporary post is justifiable, regard should be had to the principles governing the
grant of special pay laid down in the order under rule 9(25), while special pay should in no case exceed, without the
special sanction of the Finance Department, one-fifth of substantive pay excluding overseas pay or Rs. 10 a day
whichever is less.
4. For isolated ex-cadre posts it may occasionally be desirable to fix consolidated rates of pay. Where, however, the
post is to be held by members of a service it will ordinarily be preferable also to create the post in the time-scale of the
holder's service. The observations contained in paragraph 3 above will apply with equal force to the grant of special pay
over and above the ordinary time-scale in such a case.
41.
[* * *]
42.
[* * *]
43.
[* * *]
Chapter V
Additions to Pay
44.
Page 31/98
----- PAGE 32 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
Compensatory allowances.
- Subject to the general rule that the amount of a compensatory allowance should be so fixed that the allowance is not
on the whole a source of profit to the recipient, the conditions under which such allowances may be sanctioned and the
amounts which may be so paid to government servants, shall be regulated by such rules and orders as the Governor
may issue.
(For rules made by the Governor under this rule, see the rules in Part III of this Volume, Chapter III-A.)
Audit instructions regarding Rule 44
1. No revision of claims of travelling allowance is permissible in cases where a government servant is promoted or
reverted or is granted an increased rate of pay with retrospective effect in respect of the period intervening between the
date of promotion or reversion or grant of increased rate of pay, and that on which it is notified, unless it is clear that
there has been an actual change of duties.
2. A government servant transferred from one State to another will draw travelling allowance for the journey according to
the rules in force at the time of transfer in the State to which he is transferred.
3. Hill allowances fall under "Compensatory allowances."
Note - The order of the Governor reproduced under rule 9 (25) regarding the correct classification of additions to pay
applies also to the grant of compensatory allowances.
Order of the Governor regarding Rule 44
1. Every sub-inspector who is selected from the general cadre to undergo a special course of training for appointment as
reserve inspector, will be entitled, during the period of the training and up to the date of his confirmation as reserve
inspector, but not during any period during which he may officiate as reserve inspector, to the compensatory allowances
which he was drawing as sub-inspector, provided that he will be entitled to the compensatory allowances only if he
actually incurs in expenditure which the compensatory allowances are intended to meet.
2. The Sub-Inspectors of the Police Department nominated to the Reserve Sub-Inspectors Course will be allowed with
effect from November 4, 1968 a compensatory allowance of Rs. 15 (rupees fifteen) per month only per person for the
entire period of their training of nineteen months, viz. six months at the A. T. C., Sitapur and one month at the P. M. T.
Workshop, Sitapur and twelve months under a Reserve Inspector. They will continue to draw such other compensatory
allowances as they were drawing on the post of Sub-Inspector before joining the training provided the conditions on
which those allowances were allowed are still fulfilled.
Note - The compensatory allowances mentioned above do not include conveyance allowances, the drawal of which by
such sub-inspectors is governed by the special rules in Appendix VII of the Financial Hand book, Volume III.
45.
The Principles governing the allotment to government servants, for use by them as residences, of buildings owned or
leased by the Government, or portions thereof, which the Government may make available for the purpose and the
circumstances in which a government servant shall be considered to be in occupation of a residence shall be regulated
by such rules and orders as may be issued by the Governor.
(For rules made by the Governor under this rule, see Part III of this Volume, Chapter IV).
45A.
I. [* * *]
II. For the purpose of the assessment of rent, the capital cost of a residence owned by the Government shall include the
cost or value of sanitary, water supply and electric installations and fittings, but exclude the cost or value of the site
(including expenditure on its preparation); and shall be either-
(a)
the cost of acquiring or constructing the residence and any capital expenditure incurred after acquisition or construction;
or when this is not known;
(b)
the present value of the residence.
Note - The cost of restoration or special repairs shall not be added to capital cost or present value, unless such
restoration or repairs add to accommodation or involve replacement of the existing type of work by work of a more
expensive character.
Provided that-
(i)
Page 32/98
----- PAGE 33 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
the present value of residences shall be determined in the manner which the Governor may prescribe by rules or orders;
(ii)
the expenditure which is to be regarded, for the purpose of sub-clause (a) above, as expenditure upon the preparation of
site, shall be determined in accordance with such rules or orders as the Governor may issue;
(iii)
the Government may, after recording the reasons, authorize a revaluation of all residences of a specified class or
classes with in a specified area to be conducted under the rules referred to in proviso (i) above, and may revise the
capital cost of any or all such residences on the basis of such revaluation;
(iv)
the capital cost howsoever calculated, shall not take into consideration (1) any charges on account of establishment and
tools and plant other than such as were actually charged direct to the work in cases in which the residence was
constructed by the Government, or (2) in other cases, the estimated amount of such charges;
(v)
the Government may after recording the reasons, write off a specified portion of the capital cost of a residence-
(1)
when a portion of the residence must be set aside, by the government servant to whom the residence is allotted, for the
reception of official and non-official visitors visiting him on business, or
(2)
when they are satisfied that the capital cost, as determined under the above rules, would be greatly in excess of the
proper value of the accommodation provided;
Order of the Governor regarding rule 45A-II, Proviso (v) (2)
The capital value of any portion of a building which is abandoned permanently or dismantled without replacement should
be written off the total capital value of the building.
(vi)
in assessing the cost or value of the sanitary, water supply and electric installations and fittings, the Governor may by
rules determine what are to be regarded as fittings for this purpose.
Note - Government servants of the Central Government or of the Governments of Madras, Andhra Pradesh, the Punjab,
Madhya Pradesh, Assam and Orissa occupying by, official arrangement, residences provided by this Government, shall
be charged rent for such residences under this rule.
Orders of the Governor regarding Rule 45A-II
The capital cost of walls and washerman's tanks shall be included in the capital cost of the residence.
Orders of the Governor under the note to Rule 45A-II (a) and (b)
1. An increased rate for the same specification shall not constitute replacement by work of a more expensive character.
2. When a work is replaced by work of a more expensive character, the cost of the replacement shall be reduced by the
value of the dismantled work before it is added to the capital cost.
3. The cost of all structural alterations, additions or repairs to newly-purchased or previously abandoned buildings,
required for bringing them into use, shall be added to the capital cost.
Orders of the Governor regarding Rule 45 A-II, Proviso (v) (1)
The proportionate capital cost of a portion of a residence set aside for visitors' room shall be calculated in accordance
with the following formula:
Let a
=
Total plinth area of the main building.
b
=
Area of room set aside for the visitors' room measured from
centres to centres of walls.
c
=
Area of portion of verandah or verandahs directly in front of
visitors' room and which is normally utilised by visitors' coming
Page 33/98
----- PAGE 34 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
to interview the occupant.
d
=
Area of bathroom (if any) attached to the visitors' room
measured from centres to centres of walls.
Then (b+c+d)
=
Plinth area of visitors' room portion.
X
=
Capital cost of the main building (including electric, water
and sanitary installations, but excluding site).
Y
=
Cost of subsidiary buildings (out-houses, cook houses,
fencing, etc.).
{|
[| b+c+da| x X| ]
| =
| Proportionate capital cost of the portion set aside for the
visitors' room.
|-
|
[| X -| b+c+da| x X| ]
| =
| Proportionate capital cost of the residential portion.
|-
|
[| X -| b+c+da| x X| ]| + Y
| =
| Total cost of the residence for the purpose of assessment of
rent.
|}
2. The proportionate capital cost of portion of a hired residence set aside for visitors' room shall be calculated in
accordance with the following formula:-
Let a = Total carpet area of the residence.
b = Carpet area of the portion set aside for the visitors' room.
c = Carpet area of the portion of verandah or verandahs directly in front of visitors' room and which is normally utilised
by visitors coming to interview the occupant.
d = Carpet area of bathroom (if any), attached to the visitors' room.
{|
Then| b+c+da
| =
| Carpet area of visitors' room portion.
|-
| X
| =
| Capital cost of the residence
|-
|
b+c+da| x X
Page 34/98
----- PAGE 35 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
| =
| Proportionate capital cost of the portion set aside for
visitors' room.
|}
Notes - (1) Carpet area means the plinth area of the building excluding the area covered by pillars and walls.
(2)
The cost of the visitors' room once fixed should not be altered unless there are some additions or alterations to the room
itself.
(3)
No rebate will be allowed on account of electric current consumed in the Visitors' room or on account of proportionate
water charges.
(For rules made by the Governor under rule 45 A-II, see Part III of this Volume, Chapter IV.)
III. The standard rent of a residence shall be calculated as follows:
(a)
In the case of leased residences the standard rent shall be the sum paid to the lessor, plus an addition determined
under rules which the Governor may make, for meeting during the period of lease, such charges for both ordinary and
special maintenance and repairs and for capital expenditure on additions or alterations as may be a charge on the
Government and for the interest on such capital expenditure, as also for municipal and other taxes in the nature of
house or property tax payable by the Government in respect of the residences.
(b)
In the case of residences owned by the Government, the standard rent shall be calculated on the capital cost of the
residence, and shall be either-
(i)
a percentage of such capital cost equal to such rate of interest as may from time to time be fixed by the Governor plus
an addition for municipal and other taxes in the nature of house or property tax payable by the Government in respect of
the residence and for both ordinary and special maintenance and repairs, such addition being determined under rules
which the Governor may make, or
(ii)
six percent per annum of such capital cost, whichever is less.
(c)
In both cases standard rent shall be expressed as standard for a calendar month and shall be equal to one-twelfth of the
annual rent as calculated above, subject to the proviso that, in special localities or in respect of special classes of
residence, the Government may fix a standard rent to cover a period greater than one month but not greater than one
year. Where the Government take action under this proviso standard rent so fixed shall not be a larger proportion of the
annual rent than the proportion which the period of occupation as prescribed under rule 45 above bears 0 one year.
Note 1 - For the purpose of sub-clauses (a) and (b) above, the additions for both ordinary and special maintenance and
repairs shall not include anything for the establishment and tools and plant charges, except to the extent allowed under
proviso (iv) to Clause II.
Note 2 - The Governor may by rule permit minor additions and alterations, the cost of which does not exceed a
prescribed percentage of the capital cost of the residence, to be made during such period as the rule may determine,
without the rent of the residence being increased.
(For rules made by the Governor under rule 45A-III, see Part III of this Volume, Chapter IV.)
Orders of the Governor under Rule 45A-III(b)(i)
1. The rate of interest to be applied in calculating the rent of a house which may be occupied for the first time after 19th
June, 1922, shall be the [rate] [[These rates are as follows:
(a)
Before April 1, 1919, 4 per cent.
(b)
From April 1, 1919 to July 31, 1921, 5 per cent.
(c)
From August 1, 1921, 6 per cent.]] which is in force, as the standard of return from productive irrigation works, at the
Page 35/98
----- PAGE 36 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
time of the acquisition or construction of the house. The basic interest rate on which rents for houses previously
occupied have been calculated may remain unaltered, unless in any case they are higher than that now prescribed for
houses occupied hereafter.
2. For the purposes of assessing rent, the time of construction should be taken as the date on which the accounts of the
estimate for the construction of the residence are closed.
Audit instruction regarding rule 45-A-III (b) (i)
The rates of interest given in the following table should be applied in calculating the standard rent of residences under
Clause III (b) of Fundamental Rule 45-A:
Rate of interest
Date of acquisition or construction of the
residence
Buildings occupied on or before June 19, 1922
Buildings occupied after June 19, 1922
1
2
3
Before April 1, 1919
3½ per cent
4 per cent
April 1, 1919 to July 31, 1921.
3½ per cent
5 per cent
August 1, 1921 to December 31, 1921.
3½ per cent
6 per cent
From January 1, 1922, until further orders.
6 per cent
6 per cent
Note - The date of construction referred to in column (1) of this table should be taken as the date on which the accounts
of the estimate for the construction of the residence are closed. In respect of expenditure on additions and alterations to
a residence the interest should be calculated at the rate applicable on the date on which the accounts of the estimates
for the additions or alterations are closed.
Orders of the Governor under Clause III of Rule 45-A
1. Administrative departments of the Government have been authorized to sanction standard rents of residential
buildings without the concurrence of the Finance Department.
2. Heads of departments have also been authorized to sanction standard rents of residential buildings according to the
principles laid down in this rule, provided that the sanction of the Government is obtained in all cases falling under
clause (c) of rule 45A-III and Subsidiary Rule 20.
IV. When a government servant is supplied with a residence, leased or owned by the Government the following
conditions shall be observed:
(a)
The scale of accommodation supplied shall not, except at the government servant's own request, exceed that which is
appropriate to the status of the occupant.
(b)
Unless in any case it be otherwise expressly provided in these rules, he shall pay-
(i)
rent for the residence, such rent being the standard rent as defined in Clause III above, or 10 per cent of his monthly
emoluments whichever is the less; and
(ii)
municipal and other taxes payable by the Government in respect of the residence not being in the nature of house or
property tax.
Page 36/98
----- PAGE 37 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
(c)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-clause (b) above, the Government may-
(i)
at any time, after the standard rents have been calculated under the provisions of Clause III above, group a number of
residences, whether in a particular area or of a particular class or classes, for the purpose of assessment of rent, subject
to the following conditions being fulfilled:
(1)
that the basis of assessment is uniform; and
(2)
that the amount taken from any government servant shall not exceed 10 per cent of his monthly emoluments;
(ii)
by general or special order, provide for taking a rent in excess of that prescribed in sub-clause (b) above from a
government servant-
(1)
who is not required or permitted to reside on duty at the station at which the residence is supplied to him, or
(2)
who, at his own request, is supplied with accommodation which exceeds that which is appropriate to the status of the
post held by him, or
(3)
who is in receipt of a compensatory allowance granted on account of dearness of living, or
(4)
who is permitted to sub-let the residence supplied to him, or
(5)
who sub-lets without permission the residence supplied to him, or
(6)
who does not vacate the residence after cancellation of allotment.
Audit instruction under Rule 45-IV (b)
The following procedure should be observed regarding recovery of rent for residential accommodation from officers of
the State Governments for whom residential accommodation is provided by Railway Administration and also regarding
the recovery of rent from Railway officers occupying residential accommodation belonging to State Governments-
(1)
State Railway quarters occupied by civil servants of Uttar Pradesh Government by mutual agreement.
The rent will be limited to 6 per cent on the capital cost, excluding cost of land, subject to 10 per cent of pay.
(2)
Quarters belonging to Uttar Pradesh Government occupied by railway employees by mutual agreement.
In these cases civil rules will apply, i.e. 6 per cent on capital cost excluding the cost of land, subject to 10 per cent pay.
Audit instruction under Fundamental Rule 45-A-IV(c)(ii)
Under Clause IV(c)(ii) of Fundamental Rule 45-A, a local Government may recover rent in excess of 10 per cent of a
government servant's emoluments, even if it exceeds the standard rent as defined in clause III of that rule.
Orders of the Governor under Rule 45-A-IV (a)
1. Expenditure on a residential building should as far as possible be limited to a figure that the standard rent calculated
thereon in the manner indicated in rule 45-A-III shall not exceed 10 per cent of the average pay of the post held by the
government servant or the class of government servants for whom the residence is constructed. The permissible limit of
expenditure calculated in this manner will include the cost of electric, sanitary and water-supply installations. In order to
enable the expenditure permissible on the building and on the installations to be separately determined, the total
permissible limit of expenditure should be distributed as follows:
(i)
On the building
85 per cent of permissible limit.
(ii)
On electric installation
Page 37/98
----- PAGE 38 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
7½ per cent of permissible limit.
(iii)
On water-supply and sanitary installations
7½ per cent of permissible limit.
2. The accommodation to be supplied to any government servant should be determined when the question of building a
residence for him is actually taken up, and if in any case it is found that suitable accommodation can only be supplied at
a cost exceeding the permissible limit of expenditure, the sanction of the Government should be obtained.
Order of the Governor regarding Rule 45-A-III (a) and 45 A-IV (b) (ii)
The term "property tax" as used in this rule, should be interpreted in the general sense and not in the technical sense
assigned to it any particular Act or Code. It should, therefore, not be considered to include taxes levied for specific
services rendered for the benefit of the occupier. Such taxes in all cases should be excluded from the standard rent
irrespective of the fact whether they were by local rule or custom payable in the first instance by the landlord or by the
occupier. All taxes of a service character, such as water, drainage and lighting taxes, scavenging tax and tax for the
cleaning of latrines and privies should be recovered separately from the occupier under clause IV (b) (ii) of this rule.
These orders apply also in cases where government servants are provided with Government accommodation free of
rent.
Orders of the Governor under Rule 45 A-IV (c)
1. If a government servants, with the Government's permission, continues to occupy while on leave a residence owned
or leased by the Government, he shall be liable to pay as rent, during the periods of leave on average pay not exceeding
four months the standard rent of the residence or 10 per cent of his emoluments, whichever is less. For the rest of his
leave or during leave of any other kind he shall be liable to pay the full standard rent.
2. In cases of optional occupation by a government servant while not on duty, of an official residence not occupied, by
him while on duty, the full standard rent shall be charged even if this exceeds 10 per cent of his emoluments.
3. A government servant who, at his request, is supplied with a residence, owned or leased by the Government, of a
higher class than that for which he is eligible, when a house of his class is available for him, shall be charged the full
standard rent of the residence and shall not be given the benefit of the 10 per cent concession afforded by rule 45 A-IV
(b).
4. When a government servant draws a house rent allowance on a compensatory allowance on account of dearness of
living, then -
(a)
if the standard rent minus the house rent allowance or such portion of the compensatory allowance as represents the
cost of house accommodation, is less than 10 per cent of his emoluments, he shall pay the standard rent;
(b)
if the standard rent minus the house rent allowance or such portion of the compensatory allowance as represents the
cost of house accommodation is more than 10 per cent of his emoluments, he shall pay rent amounting to-
(1)
the house rent allowance or such portion of the compensatory allowance as represents the cost of house
accommodation, plus
(2)
10 per cent of his emoluments other than the house rent allowance or that portion of the compensatory allowance which
represents the cost of house accommodation.
V. In special circumstances, after recording the reasons, the Government-
(a)
may, by general or special order, grant rent free accommodation to any government servant or class of government
servants, or
(b)
may, by special order, waive or reduce the amount of rent to be recovered from any government servant.
Audit instruction regarding Fundamental Rule 45A-V (b)
It is permissible to deal, under clause V (b) of this rule, not only with individuals but also with classes of government
servants.
VI. If a residence is supplied with services, other than water-supply, sanitary or electric installations and fittings, such as
Page 38/98
----- PAGE 39 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
furniture, tennis court, or garden maintained at the cost of the Government, rent shall be charged for these in addition to
the rent payable under clause IV. The tenant will also be required to pay the cost of the water, electric energy, etc.
consumed. The Governor may by rules prescribe how the additional rents and charges shall be determined, and such
rules may also authorize the remission or reduction of the additional rent or charge in special circumstances for reasons
which are to be recorded.
(For rules made by the Governor under rule 45-A-VI, see Part III of this Volume, Chapter IV.)
VII. [* * *]
VIII. [* * *]
45B.
[* * *]
45C.
For the purpose of rule 45-A "emoluments" means:
(i)
Pay.
(ii)
Payments from the revenues of the State and fees if such payments or fees are received in the shape of a fixed addition
to monthly payment and allowances as part of the authorized remuneration of a post.
(iii)
Compensatory allowances, other than travelling allowance, uniform allowance, clothing allowance, outfit allowance,
special outfit allowance, uniform grant and grant for horse and saddlery, whether drawn from the Consolidated Fund of
the State or from a local fund.
Orders of the Governor under clause (iii) of this Rule:
"Dearness allowance though a compensatory allowance shall be excluded in calculating 'emoluments' for the purpose of
calculating the rent payable by a Government servant under Fundamental Rule 45-A in respect of a residential building
provided for him by the Government."
(iv)
[* * *]
(v)
Pension, other than a pension drawn under the provisions of Chapter XXXVIII, Civil Service Regulations, or
compensation received under the Workmen's Compensation Act, 1923, as subsequently amended.
(vi)
In the case of a government servant under suspension and in receipt of a subsistence grant, the amount of the
subsistence grant, provided that if such government servant is subsequently allowed to draw pay for the period of
suspension the difference between the rent recovered on the basis of the subsistence grant and the rent due on the
basis of the emoluments ultimately drawn shall be recovered from him.
It does not include allowances attached to the Victoria Cross, the Military Cross, the King's Police Medal, the Indian
Police Medal, the Order of British India or the Indian Order of Merit.
Note 1- The emoluments of a government servant paid at piece-work rates shall be determined in such manner as the
Government may prescribe.
Note 2 - The emoluments of a government servant on leave mean the emoluments drawn by him for the last complete
calendar month of duty performed by him prior to his departure on leave.
Order of the Governor regarding Rule 45C (v)
The word "pension" in clause (v) for this rule means the full sanctioned pension prior to commutation where a portion of
the pension has been commuted.
46.
(a)
Fees. - Subject to any rules made under rule 46-A and rule 47, a government servant may be permitted, if this can be
done without determinant to his official duties and responsibilities, to perform a specified service, or series of services,
for a private person or body, or for a public body including a body administering a local fund, and to receive as
remuneration therefor, if the service be material, a non-recurring or recurring fee.
Note - This clause does not apply to the acceptance of fees by medical officers for professional attendance which is
Page 39/98
----- PAGE 40 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
regulated by the orders of the Government.
(b)
Honoraria. - The Government may grant or permit a government servant to receive an honorarium as remuneration for
work performed which is occasional in character and either so laborious or of such special merit as to justify a special
reward. Except when special reasons, which should be recorded in writing, exist for a departure from this provision,
sanction to the grant or acceptance of an honorarium should not be given unless the work has been undertaken with the
prior consent of the Government and its amount has been settled in advance.
(c)
Fee and Honoraria. - In the case of both fees and honoraria and sanctioning authority shall record in writing that due
regard has been paid to the general principle enunciated in rule 11, and shall record also the reasons which in his
opinion justify the grant of the extra remuneration.
Audit instructions regarding Rule 46
1. The rule requires that the reasons for the grant should be recorded in writing, as it is intended that the grant of an
honorarium or fee should be carefully controlled by the Government and scrutinized by audit and that audit should be
given an effective opportunity of comment if it be deemed necessary. Audit officers may, therefore, require that the
reasons for the grant of an honorarium or free should be communicated to them in each case.
2. The honorarium paid to an officer selected as an examiner or lecturer on purely personal grounds irrespective of his
position under the Government, though these grounds may bring about his appointment in successive years, or for a
term of years, should be dealt with under Fundamental Rule 46 and not treated as a securring charge.
46A.
Acceptance of fees by medical officers for services other than professional attendance, shall be subject to such
conditions and limits as the Governor may by general rule or order, prescribe.
(For rule made under rule 46-A, see Chapter V-A in Part III of this Volume.)
47.
Subject to the provisions of the rules made by the Governor under rule 46-A and to such conditions and limits as he may
by rules or orders, impose, the authorities subordinate to the Government may sanction the grant or acceptance of
honoraria, and the acceptance of fees, other than the acceptance of fees by medical officers for professional
attendance.
Orders of the Governor in connexion with Rules 46(b) and 47
The payment of honoraria to government servants for the use by the Government of inventions patented by them is not
governed by rules 46(b) and 47, but by the provisions contained in section 17 of the Inventions and Designs Act, 1888,
and section 21 of the Indian Patents and Designs Act, 1911.
(For rules made by the Governor under rule 47, see Part III of this Volume, Chapter V.)
48.
Any government servant is eligible to receive without special permission-
(a)
the premium awarded for an essay or plan in public competition;
(b)
any reward offered for the arrest of a criminal or for information or special service in connexion with the administration of
justice;
(c)
any reward payable in accordance with the provisions of any Act or regulation or rules framed thereunder;
(d)
any reward sanctioned for services in connexion with the administration of the customs and excise law; and
(e)
any fees payable to a government servant for duties which he is required to perform in his official capacity under any
special or local law or by order of Government.
48A.
A government servant whose duties involve the carrying out of scientific or technical research shall not apply for or
obtain, or course or permit any other person to apply for or obtain, a patent for an invention made by such government
servant save with the permission of the Government and in accordance with such conditions as the Government may
Page 40/98
----- PAGE 41 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
impose.
48B.
If a question arises whether a person is a government servant to whom rule 48-A applies, the decision of the
Government shall be final.
Orders of the Governor under Rules 48-A and 48-B
1. Application for permission under rule 48-A should be made by the government servant making an invention to the
head of his department, or if he is himself the head of the department, to the Secretary to the Government in the
Industries Department.
2. The head of the department should deal with the application confidentially and with expedition, so that the inventor
may not be prejudiced by delay in making his application at the Patent Office, and should forward it with his
recommendations to the Secretary to the Government in the Industries Department.
3. If the invention has no connexion with the government servant's official duties and has not resulted from facilities
provided at Government expense permission may be granted to the applicant by the Government to take out a patent for
his own benefit, subject to his undertaking in writing-
(i)
to permit the use of the invention in the service of the Government, either without payment of any royalty or on such
terms as the Government may consider reasonable; and
(ii)
to sell or dispose of the patent in such a manner as will leave him no further hand in the working or management thereof
and will reserve to him no other right or control in the patent except the right to receive royalties:
Provided that the Government will not supply the invention to any member of the public otherwise than on payment to
the inventor of such royalty as may be mutually agreed upon.
4. If the invention is made in the course of the government servant's official duties or has resulted from facilities provided
at Government expense, then-
(a)
if the invention is of such general interest and utility that the public interest will be best served by allowing the public a
free use of the invention, the application for taking out a patent should be refused and the invention should be published.
An ex gratia payment should ordinarily be made to the inventor as a reward in all such cases;
(b)
if the invention is not of the kind mentioned in (a) but is of sufficient public utility as is likely to make its commercial
exploitation profitable, the inventor should be directed to take out a patent and to assign his rights under the patent to
the Government. In all such cases, the inventor should be rewarded either by a suitable lump sum payment or by a
liberal percentage of the profits made by the Government in connexion with the invention;
(c)
in other cases, the inventor should be allowed to take out a patent for his own benefit subject to his under-taking, in
writing;
(i)
to permit the use of the invention in the service of the Government without payment of any royalty; and
(ii)
to dispose of the invention in the manner prescribed in paragraph 3 (ii) above.
5. When the invention has been assigned to the Governor under paragraph 4 (b) above, the Government may exploit
the patent themselves, or
(a)
advertise the patent and grant licences on payment to manufacturers, or
(b)
sell the rights under the patent to a firm or to a private person.
6. In order to secure reasonable uniformity of practice and to secure for the Government the full benefits of inventions,
the Controller of Patents and Design should ordinarily be consulted before any awards are made under paragraph 4
above or steps are taken for the exploitation of the patents under paragraph 5 above
Chapter VI
Combination of Appointments
Page 41/98
----- PAGE 42 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
49.
The Government may appoint a Government servant already holding a post in a substantive or officiating capacity to
officiate, as a temporary measure, in one or more of other independent posts at one time under the State Government.
In such cases, his pay is regulated as follows :
(i)
where a Government servant is formally appointed to hold full charge of the duties of a higher post in the same office as
his own and in the same cadre/line of promotion, in addition to his ordinary duties, he shall be allowed the pay
admissible to him, if he were appointed to officiate in the higher post, unless his officiating pay is reduced under Rule 35
but no additional pay shall be allowed for performing the duties of a lower post.
(ii)
where a Government servant is formally appointed to hold dual charge of two posts in the same cadre in the same office
carrying identical scales of pay, no additional pay shall be admissible irrespective of the period of dual charge;
Provided that if the Government servant is appointed to an additional post which carries special pay, he shall be allowed
such special pay.
(iii)
where a Government servant is formally appointed to hold charge of another post or posts which is or are not in the
same office, or which, though in the same office, is or are not in the same cadre/ line of promotion, he shall be allowed
the pay of the higher post, or the highest post if he holds charge of more than two posts, in addition to ten percent of the
presumptive pay of the additional post or posts, if the additional charge is held for a period exceeding thirty days but not
exceeding ninety days :
Provided that if in any particular case, it is considered necessary that the Government servant should hold charge of
another post or posts for a period exceeding ninety days, the concurrence of the State Government in the Finance
Department shall be obtained for the payment of the additional pay beyond the period of ninety days.
(iv)
No additional pay shall be admissible to a Government servant who is appointed to hold current charge of the routine
duties of another post or posts irrespective of the duration of the additional charge.
(v)
If compensatory or sumptuary allowances are attached to one or more of the posts the Government servant shall draw
such compensatory or sumptuary allowances as the State Government may fix :
Provided that such allowances shall not exceed the total of the compensatory and sumptuary allowances attached to all
the posts.
Orders of the Governor regarding Rule 49
1. This rule does not apply to ministerial, subordinate or lower categories of posts, duties in respect of which shall be
distributed among other members of the staff. The rule also does not apply when Government servant is not formally
appointed to the additional post(s) nor does it apply in cases where formal appointment is made after the arrangement
has ceased. In the case of a gazetted Government servant a formal notification of appointment is also required which
should be issued as early as possible so that the officer knows that he has to perform full duties and responsibilities of
the additional post or posts. When a post is vacant for a period of 30 days or less, it should be carefully considered
whether it is really necessary to fill it, particularly if the filling of it involves a transfer. If there will be no detriment to the
public service by leaving the post unfilled, it should not be filled at all. If, on the other hand, it is desirable or possible to
entrust the current duties of the post to some other Government servant on the spot, this may be arranged, but then too
no formal appointment should be made to the other post and no extra remuneration allowed to the Government servant
for attending to the current duties of the post in addition to his own duties. It may be necessary for legal, technical or
even administrative reasons to fill short vacancies of even less than 30 days, but a careful and deliberate discretion
should be exercised before vacancies of such duration are filled. Vacancies exceeding 30 days require less strict
treatment, but they, too, should not be filled as matter of course, but only if it is advisable on public (as opposed to
private) grounds to do so. A formal appointment under Rule 49 should only be made when it is absolutely necessary that
the Government servant should perform the full duties of the vacant post or posts in addition to his own duties.
2. The orders issued in G.O. No. G-1-172/X-534 (97)/69 dated May 14, 1970 on the subject will be deemed to have
been superseded by the provisions of the Rule from the date it comes into force.
Chapter VII
Page 42/98
----- PAGE 43 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
Deputation Out of India
50.
No government servant may be deputed for duty out of India without the sanction of the Government.
51.
(1)
When a government servant is with proper sanction temporarily deputed for duty out of India either in connexion with the
post held by him in India or in connexion with any special duty on which he may temporarily be placed, his pay shall be
regulated as follows:
(a)
If he is deputed for duty in Europe or his deputation elsewhere is declared by the Government to be under
quasi-European conditions and if he is sent from India for the purpose of his deputation and does not include any leave
within the period of his absence from India, he shall receive-for the first month of his absence from India, the pay which
he would have drawn if he had remained on duty in India, for the second month of such absence, eleven-twelfths of
such amount, for the third month of such absence, five-sixths of such amount, for the fourth month of such absence,
three-fourths of such amount, for the fifth to tenth months of such absence, two-thirds of such amount, and thereafter
three-fourths of such amount.
(b)
If he is deputed for duty in Europe or his deputation elsewhere is declared by the Government to be under
quasi-European conditions, and if he is not sent from India for the purpose of his deputation, or having been so sent
includes a period of leave within the period of his absence from India, he shall receive throughout his deputation
three-fourth of the pay which he would have drawn if he had remained on duty in India.
(c)
If he is deputed for duty elsewhere than in Europe and his deputation is not declared by the Government to be under
quasi-European conditions, his pay shall be as deter-mined by the Government with due regard to the provisions of rule
40 as though a temporary post had been created:
Provided that-
(i)
no government servant on deputation out of India shall draw pay at a rate exceeding Rs. 5,500 per month;
(ii)
a government servant having his domicile in India may in any case be allowed by the Government to draw during the
period of deputation out of India pay not exceeding the full amount of the pay which he would have drawn had he
remained on duty in India in lieu of the pay admissible to him under sub-clause (a) or sub-clause (b) of this clause.
(2)
In addition to the pay admissible under clause (1) of this rule a government servant on deputation may be granted a
compensatory allowance of such amount as the Government may think fit.
Note - The sterling equivalent of the pay admissible under clause (1) to a government servant during deputation shall be
calculated at such rate of exchange as the Secretary of State may have prescribed in the case of deputation of officers
of All-India Services.
Orders of the Governor regarding Rule 51
1. A subordinate police officer who may be deputed by the Government to any country outside India, to accompany or
take charge of criminals or lunatics, or on any other business which is part of his duty as a police officer, may be
granted-
(a)
full pay for the entire period of absence from India; with
(b)
actual travelling expense and a subsistence allowance not exceeding the following scale while in any country outside
India:
s.
d.
For an officer of the inspector class
22
Page 43/98
----- PAGE 44 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
6
a day
"
"sergeant "
}
"
"constable "
15
0
"
Note - An officer of the inspector class includes a sub-inspector.
2. Government servants subject to the leave rules in the Civil Service Regulations are also governed by the provisions of
sub-clause (b) of the above rule.
3. The travelling and halting allowances of members, including non-officials, of any commissions, committees, etc, which
may be sent by the Government on deputation out of India, will be governed by such rules or orders as may be laid
down by the Government.
4. Government servants who, while on leave, are required by the Government to attend conferences or congresses in
the United Kingdom or on the Continent of Europe, whether as official representatives or as unofficial visitors, will be
allowed such terms in regard to pay and allowances as may be determined by the Government in each case.
5. Government servants on leave, who are unwilling to undertake special duty on deputation rates of pay, may be
allowed by the Government to continue to consume leave and receive an honorarium fixed at one-sixth of Indian pay.
6. The option of consuming leave on average pay during a period of deputation and of drawing an honorarium of one
sixth of India pay shall be limited to cases in which government servants are placed on deputation while already on
leave out of India on average pay.
Audit instructions regarding Rules 50 and 51.
1. The period of the deputation runs from the date on which the government servant takes over charge of his office in
India to the date on which he resumes it; or if the government servant is on leave out of India at the time he is placed on
deputation, the period of the deputation is the time actually occupied by the duty.
2. In the expression "pay he would draw if he were on duty in India" occurring in Fundamental Rule 51 (a) and in the
similar expression in Fundamental Rule 9(2), the term "pay", should be interpreted literally with reference to
Fundamental Rule 9(21) and the pay which an officer would have drawn if on duty in India should be determined for this
purpose by the appropriate authority in India. In the case of government servants who are not deputed out of India for
special items of works but are placed on continuous service with commission and committees whose functions require
work both in and out of India, the expression should be interpreted as having reference to the pay which they would
have drawn in India had they continued on duty with the commission or committee there.
51A.
When a government servant is with proper sanction deputed for duty out of India to hold a regularly constituted
permanent or quasi-permanent post, other than a post borne on the cadre of the service to which he belongs, his pay
shall be regulated by the orders of the Government
Chapter VIII
Dismissal, Removal and Suspension
52.
The pay and allowance of a government servant who is dismissed or removed from service cease from the date of such
dismissal or removal.
53.
(1)
A government servant under suspension or deemed to have been placed under suspension by an order of the
appointing authority shall be entitled to the following payments, namely:-
(a)
a subsistence allowance at an amount equal to the leave salary which the government servant would have drawn if he
had been on leave on half average pay or on half pay and in addition, dearness allowance, if admissible on the basis of
Page 44/98
----- PAGE 45 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
such leave salary:
Provided that where the period of suspension exceeds three months, the authority which made or is deemed to have
made the order of suspension shall be competent to vary the amount of subsistence allowance for any period
subsequent to the period of the first three months as follows:-
(i)
the amount of subsistence allowance may be increased by a suitable amount, not exceeding 50 per cent of the
subsistence allowance admissible during the period of first three months, if, in the opinion of the said authority, the
period of suspension has been prolonged for reasons to be recorded in writing, not directly attributable to the
government servant;
(ii)
the amount of subsistence allowance may be reduced by a suitable amount not exceeding 50 per cent of the
subsistence allowance admissible during the period of the first three months, if, in the opinion of the said authority, the
period of suspension has been prolonged due to reasons, to be recorded in writing, directly attributable to the
Government servant;
(iii)
the rate of dearness allowance will be based on the increased or, as the case may be, the decreased amount of
subsistence allowance admissible under sub-clauses (i) and (ii) above.
(b)
Any other compensatory allowance admissible from time to time on the basis of pay of which the Government servant
was in receipt on the date of suspension:
Provided that the government servant shall not be entitled to the compensatory allowances unless the said authority is
satisfied that the government servant continues to meet the expenditure for which they are granted.
(2)
No payment under sub-rule (1) shall be made unless the Government servant furnishes a certificate that he is not
engaged in any other employment, business, profession or vocation:
Provided that in the case of a Government servant dismissed or removed from service, who is deemed to have been
placed or to continue to be under suspension from the date of such dismissal or removal and who fails to produce such
a certificate for any period or periods during which he is deemed to be placed or to continue to be under suspension, he
shall be entitled to the subsistence allowance and other allowances equal to the amount by which his earnings during
such period or periods, as the case may be, fall short of the amount of subsistence allowance and other allowances that
would otherwise be admissible to him; where the subsistence and other allowances admissible to him are equal to or
less than the amount earned by him, nothing in this proviso shall apply to him.
(This amendment shall be deemed to have come into force with effect from December 26, 1981).
Orders of the Governor regarding Rule 53
1. The suspending authority may appoint a substitute in place of a government servant under suspension, provided that
the period of suspension does not exceed six months. The word 'substitute' here means the substitute appointed in the
resultant vacancy or at the bottom in the chain of arrangements.
2. Departments of the government are authorized to appoint a substitute in place of a government servant under
suspension for more than six months.
3. The Board of Revenue is authorized to appoint a substitute in place of a government servant under suspension for
more than six months under intimation to Government every three months.
4. Commissioners of Divisions are authorised to appoint a substitute in place of government servant under suspension
for more than six months under intimation to the Board of Revenue every three months.
Note - The authority sanctioning such employment shall draw the special attention of the Accountant General to the
sanction.
(Effective with effect from July 13, 1974)
54.
[
[Substituted by Notification No. C-2-2063/X-534 (18)-71, dated 28th December, 1979 (w.e.f. 3-5-1980).]
(1)
When a Government servant who has been dismissed, removed or compulsorily retired is reinstated as a result of
Page 45/98
----- PAGE 46 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
appeal or review or would have been so reinstated but for his retirement on superannuation while under suspension or
not, the authority competent to order reinstatement shall consider and make a specific order-
(a)
regarding the pay and allowances to be paid to the Government servant for the period of his absence from duty
including the period of suspension preceding his dismissal, removal, or compulsory retirement, as the case be; and
(b)
whether or not the said period shall be treated as a period spent on duty.]
(2)
Where the authority competent to order reinstatement is of opinion that the Government servant who had been
dismissed, removed or compulsorily retired, has been fully exonerated the Government servant shall, subject to the
provisions of sub-rule (6), be paid the full pay and allowances to which he would have been entitled, had he not been
dismissed, removed or compulsorily retired or suspended prior to such dismissal, removal or compulsory retirment, as
the case may be:
Provided that where such authority is of opinion that the termination of the proceedings instituted against the
Government servant had been delayed due to reasons directly attributable to the Government servant, it may, after
giving him an opportunity to make his representation within sixty days from the date on which the communication in this
regard is served on him and after considering the representation, if any, submitted by him, direct, for reasons to be
recorded in writing, that the Government servant shall, subject to the provisions of sub-rule (7), be paid for the period of
such delay, only such amount (not being the whole) of such pay and allowances as it may determine.
(3)
In a case falling under sub-rule (2), the period of absence from duty including the period of suspension preceding
dismissal, removal or compulsory retirement, as the case may be, shall be treated as a period spent on duty for all
purposes.
(4)
[ In cases other than those covered by sub-rule (2) [including cases where the order of dismissal, removal or compulsory
retirement from service is set aside by the appellate or reviewing authority solely on the ground of noncompliance with
the requirements of clause (1) or clause (2) of article 311 of the Constitution and no further inquiry is proposed to be
held, the Government servant shall, subject to the provisions of sub-rules (6) and (7), be paid such amount (not being
the whole) of the pay and allowances to which he would have been entitled had he not been dismissed, removed or
compulsorily retired or suspended prior to such dismissal, removal or compulsory retirement, as the case may be, as the
competent authority may determine, after giving notice to the Government servant of the quantum proposed and after
considering the representation, if any, submitted by him in that connection, within such period (which in no case shall
exceed sixty days from the date on which the notice has been served) as may be specified in the notice.]
[Substituted by Notification No. C-2-186/X-534 (18)-83, dated 19-2-1986 (w.e.f. 19-2-1986).]
(5)
In a case falling under sub-rule (4), the period of absence from duty including the period of suspension preceding his
dismissal, removal or compulsory retirement, as the case may be, shall not be treated as a period spent on duty, unless
the competent authority specifically directs that it shall be so treated for any specified purpose:
Provided that if the Government servant so desires such authority may direct that the period of absence from duty
including the period of suspension preceding his dismissal, removal or compulsory retirement as the case may be, shall
be converted into leave of any kind due and admissible to the Government servant.
Note - The order of the competent authority under the preceding proviso shall be absolute and no higher sanction shall
be necessary for the grant of-
(a)
extraordinary leave in excess of three months in the case of temporary Government servant; and
(b)
leave of any kind in excess of five years in the case of permanent Government servant.
(6)
The payment of allowances under sub-rule (2) of sub-rule (4) shall be subject to all other conditions under which such
allowances are admissible.
(7)
Page 46/98
----- PAGE 47 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
The amount determined under the proviso to sub-rule (2) or under sub-rule (4), shall not be less than the subsistence
allowance and other allowances admissible under rule 53.
(8)
Any payment made under this rule to a Government servant on his reinstatement shall be subject to adjustment of the
amount, if any, earned by him through an employment during the period between the date of his removal, dismissal or
compulsory retirement, as the case may be, and the date of reinstatement. Where the emoluments admissible under this
rule are equal to or less than the amounts earned during the employment elsewhere, nothing shall be paid to the
Government servant.
Note - Where the Government servant does not report for duty within reasonable time after the issue of the orders of
reinstatement after dismissal, removal or compulsory retirement, no pay and allowances will be paid to him for such
period till he actually takes over charge.
54A.
[
[Substituted by Notification No. C-2-2063/X-534 (18)-71, dated 28th December, 1979 (w.e.f. 3-5-1980).]
(1)
Where the dismissal, removal or compulsory retirement of a Government servant is set aside by a court of Law and such
Government servant is reinstated without holding any further inquiry, the period of absence from duty shall be
regularised and the Government servant shall be paid pay and allowances in accordance with the provisions of sub-rule
(2) or (3) subject to the directions, if any, of the court.]
[This amended sub-rule (2) shall be deemed to have into force w.e.f. 1-1-1986, vide  Notification No. G-2-523/X-303-89,
dated 16-8-1989.]
(2)
[ (i) Where the dismissal, removal or compulsory retirement of a Government servant is set aside by the court solely on
the ground of non-compliance with the requirements of clause (1) or clause (2) of article 311 of the Constitution, and
where he is not exonerated on merits, and no further inquiry is proposed to be held, the Government servant shall,
subject to the provisions of sub-rule (7) of rule 54, be paid such amount (not being the whole) of the pay and allowances
to which he would have been entitled had he not been dismissed, removed or compulsorily retired or suspended prior to
such dismissal, removal or compulsory retirement, as the case may be, as the competent authority may determine, after
giving notice to the Government servant of the quantum proposed and after considering the representation, if any,
submitted by him in that connection within such period (which in no case shall exceed sixty days from the date on which
the notice has been served) as may be specified in the notice.]
[Substituted by Notification No. C-2-186/X-534 (18)-83, dated 19-2-1986 (w.e.f. 19-2-1986).]
(ii)
The period intervening between the date of dismissal, removal or compulsory retirement including the period of
suspension preceding dismissal, removal or compulsory retirement, as the case may be, and the date of judgment of the
court shall be regularised in accordance with the provisions contained in sub-rule (5) of rule 54.
(3)
If the dismissal, removal or compulsory retirement of a Government servant is set aside by the court on the merits of the
case, the period intervening between the date of dismissal, removal or compulsory retirement including the period of
suspension preceding such dismissal, removal, or compulsory retirement, as the case may be, and the date of
reinstatement shall be treated as duty for all purposes and he shall be paid the full pay and allowances for the period, to
which he would have been entitled, had he not been dismissed, removed or compulsorily retired or suspended prior to
such dismissal, removal or compulsory retirement, as the case may be.
(4)
The payment of allowances under sub-rule (2) or sub-rule (3) shall be subject to all other conditions under which such
allowances are admissible.
(5)
Any payment made under this rule to a Government servant on his reinstatement shall be subject to adjustment of the
amount, if any, earned by him through an employment during the period between the date of dismissal, removal or
compulsory retirement and the date of reinstatement. Where the emoluments admissible under this rule are equal to or
less than those earned during the employment elsewhere, nothing shall be paid to the Government servant.
Page 47/98
----- PAGE 48 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
Note - Where the Government servant does not report for duty with-in reasonable time after the issue of the orders of
reinstatement after the dismissal, removal or compulsory retirement, no pay and allowances will be paid to him for such
period till he actually takes over charge.
54B.
[
[Substituted by Notification No. C-2-2063/X-534 (18)-71, dated 28th December, 1979 (w.e.f. 3-5-1980).]
(1)
When a Government servant who has been suspended is reinstated or would have been so reinstated but for his
retirement on superannuation while under suspension, the authority competent to order reinstatement shall consider and
make a specific order-
(a)
regarding the pay and allowances to be paid to the Government servant for the period of suspension ending with
reinstatement or the date of his retirement on superannuation as the case may be; and
(b)
whether or not the said period shall be treated as a period spent on duty.]
(2)
Notwithstanding anything contained in rule 53, where a Government servant under suspension dies before the
disciplinary or court proceedings instituted against him are concluded, the period between the date of suspension and
the date of death shall be treated as duty for all purposes and his family shall be paid the full pay and allowances for that
period to which he would have been entitled had he not been suspended, subject to adjustment in respect of
subsistence allowance already paid.
(3)
Where the authority competent to order reinstatement is of the opinion that the suspension was wholly unjustified, the
Government servant shall, subject to the provisions of sub-rule (8), to be paid the full pay and allowances to which he
would have been entitled, had he not been suspended:
Provided that where such authority is of the opinion that the termination of the proceedings instituted against the
Government servant had been delayed due to reasons directly attributable to the Government servant, it may, after
giving him an opportunity to make his representation within sixty days from the date on which the communication in this
regard is served on him and after considering the representation, if any, submitted by him, direct, for reasons to be
recorded in writing that the Government servant shall be paid for the period of such delay only such amount (not being
the whole) of such pay and allowances as it may determine.
(4)
In a case falling under sub-rule (3) the period of suspension shall be treated as a period spent on duty for all purposes.
(5)
In cases other than those falling under sub-rules (2) and (3), the Government servant shall subject to the provisions of
sub-rules (8) and (9), be paid such amount (not being the whole) of the pay and allowances to which he would have
been entitled had he not been suspended, as the competent authority may determine, after giving notice to the
Government servant of the quantum proposed and after considering the representation, if any, submitted by him in that
connection within such period (which in no case shall exceed sixty days from the date on which the notice has been
served) as may be specified in the notice.
(6)
Where suspension is revoked pending finalisation of the disciplinary or court proceedings, any order passed under
sub-rule (1) before the conclusion of the proceedings against the Government servant, shall be reviewed on its own
motion after the conclusion of the proceedings by the authority mentioned in sub-rule (1), who shall make an order
according to the provisions of sub-rule (3) or sub-rule (5), as the case may be.
(7)
In a case falling under sub-rule (5) the period of suspension shall not be treated as a period spent on duty unless the
competent authority specifically directs that it shall be so treated for any specified purpose:
Provided that if the Government servant desires, such authority may order that the period of suspension shall be
converted into leave of any kind due and admissible to the Government servant.
Note - The order of the competent authority under the preceding proviso shall be absolute and no higher sanction shall
Page 48/98
----- PAGE 49 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
be necessary for the grant of-
(a)
Extraordinary leave in excess of three months in the case of temporary Government servant; and
(b)
Leave of any kind in excess of five years in the case of permanent Government servant.
(8)
The payment of allowances under sub-rule (2), sub-rule (3) or sub-rule (5) shall be subject to all other conditions under
which such allowances are admissible.
(9)
The amount determined under the proviso to sub-rule (3) or under sub-rule (5) shall not be less than the subsistence
allowance and other allowances admissible under rule 53.
(10)
Any payment made under this rule to Government servant on his reinstatement shall be subject to adjustment of the
amount, if any, earned by him through an employment during the period between the date of suspension and the date of
reinstatement or the date of retirement on superannuation while under suspension. Where the emoluments admissible
under this rule are equal to or less than those earned during the employment elsewhere, nothing shall be paid to the
Government servant.
Note - Where the Government servant does not report for duty within reasonable time after the issue of the order of
reinstatement after suspension, on pay and allowances will be paid to him for such period till he actually takes over
charge.
Orders of the Governor regarding Rule 54
1. This rule permits a revising or an appellate authority to convert a period spent under suspension into one of leave.
2. In a case where a government servant is punished by an original authority but the order is reversed in appeal, the
following procedure should be observed:
(a)
If the appellate authority finds the original order entirely wrong, the appellant should be reinstated with effect from the
date of the original order and should not be deprived of a part or the whole of his emoluments during the interval
between the dates of the original and the appellate orders, as it is an accepted principle that no government servant may
suffer as the result of a mistake not committed by himself. If some other government servant has received promotion
during the same period, the demand for recovery of the additional pay drawn by him should be waived with the sanction
of the Government. The revision or appellate authority can, however, write-off such additional expenditure up to a limit of
Rs. 500 in each case provided that the period of employment of the substitute does not exceed six months.
(b)
If the appellate authority finds the appellant to be blameworthy but the order passed to be too severe, it may, if it so
desires, order restoration from the date of the appellate order. In such a case the demand for recovery of the additional
pay drawn by some other government servant during the period in question will not arise.
3. The above procedure does not apply to cases where an ordinary order of promotion has been reversed as a result of
an appeal preferred by a superseded government servant. An order of punishment set aside in appeal differs from an
order of promotion reversed in appeal in one important respect. In the former case the government servant punished as
previously held the post in which he has been reinstated as a result of his appeal and the period of suspension or
dismissal is treated as a period spent on duty. In the latter case the government servant promoted to a post in
consequence of the reversion of orders has not previously held that post and can, therefore, draw the pay, attached to it
only from the date when he takes over that post, and accordingly the orders of the appellate authority can take effect
only from the date on which they are passed. No question of recovery or write-off of the promotion pay drawn by the
government servant wrongly promoted will arise.
4. Orders contained in paragraph 3 above cannot be applied to grade promotions in the same cadre, which are given
with retrospective effect from the date of the vacancy while the duties and the posting of the government servants
concerned remain unchanged. In such cases when an appellate authority for good reason, decides to grant grade
promotion to the appellant not from the date of his order but from the date of the occurrence of the vacancy and when
the promotion does not involve assumption of different duties and responsibilities, the additional pay drawn by the
government servant originally promoted need not be recovered but should be written off with the sanction of the
Page 49/98
----- PAGE 50 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
Government.
55.
Leave may not be granted to a government servant under suspension.
Chapter IX
Compulsory Retirement
56.
[(a) Except as otherwise provided in this Rule, every Government servant other than a Government servant in inferior
service shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the age of fifty eight
years. He may be retained in service after the date of compulsory retirement with the sanction of the Government on
public grounds, which must be recorded in writing, but he must not be retained after the age of 60 years except in very
special circumstances.
(b)
A Government servant in inferior service shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which
he attains the age of sixty years. He must not be retained in service after that date, except in very special circumstances
and with sanction of the Government].
(c)
[ Notwithstanding anything contained in clause (a) or clause (b), the appointing authority may, at any time, by notice to
any Government servant (whether permanent or temporary), without assigning any reason, require him to retire after he
attains the age of fifty years or such Government servant may by notice to the appointing authority voluntarily retire at
any time after attaining the age of [forty-five years]
[These sub-rules (c) & (d) are effective from June 7, 1975.]
or after he has completed qualifying service of twenty years.
(d)
The period of such notice shall be three months:
Provided that-
(i)
any such Government servant may by order of the appointing authority, without such notice or by a shorter notice, be
retired forthwith at any time after attaining the age of fifty years, and on such retirement the Government servant shall be
entitled to claim a sum equivalent to the amount of his pay plus allowances, if any, for the period of the notice, or as the
case may be, for the period by which such notice falls short of three months, at the same rates at which he was drawing
immediately before his retirement;
(ii)
it shall be open to the appointing authority to allow a Government servant to retire without any notice or by a shorter
notice without requiring the Government servant to pay any penalty in lieu of notice:
Provided further that such notice given by the Government servant against whom a disciplinary proceeding is pending or
contemplated, shall be effective only if it is accepted by the appointing authority, provided that in the case of a
contemplated disciplinary proceeding the Government servant shall be informed before the expiry of his notice that it
has not been accepted:
Provided also that the notice once given by a Government servant under clause (c) seeking voluntary retirement shall
not be withdrawn by him except with the permission of the appointing authority.
(e)
A retiring pension shall be payable and other retirement benefits, if any, shall be available in accordance with and
subject to the provisions of the relevant rules to every Government servant who retires or is required or allowed to retire
under this rule.]
[Provided that where a Government servant who voluntarily retires or is allowed voluntarily to retire under this rule the
appointing authority may allow him, for the purposes of pension and gratuity, if any, the benefit of additional service of
five years or of such period as he would have served if he had continued till the ordinary date of his superannuation,
whichever be less;]
[This proviso came into effect from November 18, 1976.]
Explanation - (1) The decision of the appointing authority under clause (c) to require the Government servant to retire as
specified therein shall be taken if it appears to the said authority to be in the public interest, but nothing herein contained
Page 50/98
----- PAGE 51 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
shall be construed to require any recital, in the order, of such decision having been taken in the public interest.
(2)
In order to be satisfied whether it will be in the public interest to require a Government servant to retire under clause (c)
the appointing authority may take into consideration any material relating to the Government servant and nothing herein
contained shall be construed to exclude from consideration-
(a)
any entries relating to any period before such Government servant was allowed to cross any efficiency bar or before he
was promoted to any post in an officiating or substantive capacity or on an ad-hoc basis; or
(b)
any entry against which a representation is pending, provided that the representation is also taken into consideration
along with the entry; or
(c)
any report of the Vigilance Establishment constituted under the Uttar Pradesh Vigilance Establishment Act, 1965.
(2A)
Every such decision shall be deemed to have been taken in the public interest.
(3)
The 'expression' appointing authority means the authority which for the time being has the power to make substantive
appointments to the post or service from which the Government servant is required or wants to retire; and the
expression 'qualifying service' shall have the same meaning as in the relevant rules relating to retiring pension.
(4)
Every order of the appointing authority requiring a Government servant to retire forth-with under the first proviso to
clause(d) of this rule shall have effect from the afternoon of the date of its issue, provided that if after the date of its
issue, the Government servant concerned, bona fide and in ignorance of that order, performs the duties of his office his
acts shall be deemed to be valid notwithstanding the fact of his having earlier retired.
Note - (1) (Deleted)
Note - (2) The grant, under rule 86, of leave extending beyond the date on which a government servant must
compulsorily retire, or beyond the date upto which a government servant has been permitted to remain in service, shall
not be treated as sanctioning an extension of service, and the government servant shall not be permitted to retain a lien
on his permanent post or any other post during the period of such leave.
(This shall come into force with effect from April 1, 1965).
Note - (3) A government servant whose date of birth is the first day of a month shall retire from service on the afternoon
of the last day of the preceding month on attaining the age of fifty-eight or sixty years, as the case may be.
Audit instructions regarding Rule 56
1. When a government servant is required to retire, revert or cease to be on leave, on attaining a specified age, the day
on which he attains that age is reckoned as a non-working day, and the government servant must retire, revert or cease
to be on leave (as the case may be) with effect from and including that day. * * *
1A. Clause (a) * * * of Fundamental Rule 56 applies to all government servants to whom the Fundamental Rules as a
whole apply, whether they be holding temporary or permanent posts substantively or in an officiating capacity. * * *
1B.
* * * The purpose of Fundamental Rule 56 is not to confer upon government servants any right to be retained in service
up to a particular age, but to prescribe the age beyond which they may not be retained in service.
1C.
Fundamental Rule 56 is generally applicable to re-employed personnel, and the rules in Chapter XXI of the Civil Service
Regulations are subject to the conditions laid down in Fundamental Rule 56. Article 520, Civil Service Regulations,
however, from the nature of its concession and conditions, puts the re-employment of a person in receipt of a
superannuation or retiring pension in a special class outside. Fundamental Rule 56 and subject to the conditions stated
in the article itself which must be observed with every renewal of sanction.
Orders of the Governor regarding Rule 56
Rule 56 shall not apply to patwaris in the Revenue Department except those in the Kumaun Division. The normal age at
which patwari of the Kumaun Division should retire has been fixed at 55 years, subject to the condition that the Deputy
Commissioner-in-charge, Kumaun Division, may, on public grounds, grant annual extensions up to the age of 60 years.
Page 51/98
----- PAGE 52 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
Note. - Repealed w.e.f. 18.4.1975 vide Notification No. G-2-58/X-534 (19) 90, dated 19.1.1990.
57.
[* * *]
Chapter X
Leave
Section I - Extent of Application
58.
Unless in any case it be otherwise distinctly provided, the rules in this Chapter apply to all government servants
mentioned in rule 2: provided that the leave of those government servants who were in service on January 1, 1922, and
who have under rule 58 of the Fundamental Rules made by the Secretary of State in Council under section 96-B of the
Government of India Act, 1919, elected (by making a specific declaration to the Government to that effect) to remain
under the leave rules in the Civil Service Regulations shall be governed by those rules.
59.
[Except as provided in Fundamental Rules 83 and 83-A, leave is earned by a government servant under Sections I to V
of this Chapter if he holds a lien on a permanent post or would hold a lien on such a post had his lien not been
suspended.]
[This rule has come into effect from April 1, 1966]
Exception - Government servants who hold quasi-permanent posts in the Settlement Department in a substantive
capacity shall earn leave under Sections I to V of this Chapter.
Note - The following posts in the Settlement Department have been declared to be on a quasi-permanent footing from
the date mentioned against each post:
(a)
In the office of the Settlement Commissioner
(i)
One Superintendent
From April 1, 1941.
(ii)
Three noters and drafters
From April 1, 1940.
(iii)
One accountant-cum-store-keeper
(iv)
One reference clerk
(v)
One camp clerk-sarishtedar
(vi)
One camp assistant to Settlement Commissioner
(b)
In Settlement Offices
(i)
Head clerk
From October 1, 1899.
(ii)
Second clerk
(iii)
Sadar munsarim
(iv)
Settlement Officer's reader
(v)
Nazir
(vi)
Page 52/98
----- PAGE 53 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
Record-keeper
Audit instruction regarding Rule 59
There is no restriction in these rules on the grant to a government servant on the abolition of his post of such leave as
was admissible to him immediately before the abolition of the post. In the case of a government servant who holds no
lien on any post except that which it is proposed to abolish, the correct practice in deciding the exact date from which the
post is to be abolished is to defer the date of abolition up to the termination of such leave as may be granted.
60.
Leave is earned by duty only. For the purpose of this rule a period spent in foreign service counts as duty if contribution
towards leave-salary is paid on account of such period.
61.
to 63.
[* * *]
64.
Unless in any case it be otherwise expressly provided by or under these rule, a government servant transferred to a
service or post to which these rules apply from a service or post to which they do not apply is not ordinarily entitled to
leave under these rules in respect of duty performed before such transfer; but a government servant reverting from duty
as Judge of the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad or the Chief Court of Avadh may count such duty for leave as
though it were duly performed in a vacation department; all leave taken during the service concerned being treated as
taken under these rules.
65.
(a)
If a government servant, who quits the public service on compensation or invalid pension or gratuity, is re-employed and
if his gratuity is thereupon refunded or his pension held wholly in abeyance, his past service thereby becoming
pensionable on ultimate retirement, he may, at the discretion of the authority sanctioning the re-employment and to such
extent as that authority may decide, count his former service towards leave.
Note - Clause (a) of this rule will apply to men who, after resigning their appointments in the police force of any province,
were re-enlisted in the Uttar Pradesh Police Force in accordance with paragraph 393 of the Police Regulations on or
after March 1, 1933. Cases of such men re-enlisted before that date will be regulated under old clause (a) of
Fundamental Rule 65 as it stood before revision on September 5, 1928.
Audit instruction regarding Rule 65(a)
Treatment for the purpose of leave of the previous service of a government servant who resigns one appointment to
take up another appointment. - Resignation of the public service, even though it is followed immediately by
re-employment, should entail forfeiture of past service for the purpose of leave under the Fundamental Rules and
should, therefore, constitute an "interruption of duty" for the purpose of Subsidiary Rule 158.
(b)
A government servant who is dismissed or removed from service, but is reinstated on appeal revision, is entitled to
count his former service for leave.
65A.
A government servant who had been in military employ prior to his re-employment in the service of the Government and
who was in such service on December 31,1931, is entitled, irrespective of any break between his military and civil
employment, to a credit to his leave account in accordance with the provisions of rule 77, based on such portion of his
military service as, under the rules for the time being in force, is permitted to count for pension.
Order of the Governor regarding Rule 65-A
Leave charges on account of leave granted in respect of military service allowed to count under this rule will be met from
the provincial revenues.
Section II - General Conditions
66.
Except as expressly mentioned otherwise, leave, other than special disability leave and leave extending beyond the date
of compulsory retirement, may be granted by such authorities subordinate to the Government as the Governor may by
rules or orders, specify.
(For rules made by the Governor under rule 66 see Part III of this Volume, Chapter VI).
Page 53/98
----- PAGE 54 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
Note - (1) The High Court of Judicature at Allahabad are competent to grant all kinds of leave (including special disability
leave and leave extending beyond the date of compulsory retirement) to persons belonging to the Subordinate Civil
Judicial Service, or in other words, to Munsifs and Civil Judges (including Judges of the Small Cause Courts established
under the Provincial Small Cause Courts Act) under their control subject to the conditions and restrictions laid down in
the rules made by the Governor and general orders issued by him under those rules.
Note - (2) The Chief Justice of the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad is competent to grant all kinds of leave
(including special disability leave and leave extending beyond the date of compulsory retirement) as may be admissible
under the rules to persons serving on the staff attached to the Court.
Orders of the Governor regarding Rule 66
The High Commissioner for India is authorized under this rule to exercise the powers mentioned in the rules framed by
the Governor under rule 74(b) in respect of extensions of leave other than special disability leave.
67.
Leave cannot be claimed as of right. When the exigencies of the public service so require, discretion to refuse or revoke
leave of any description is reserved to the authority empowered to grant it.
68.
Leave ordinarily begins on the day on which transfer of charge is effected and ends on the day preceding that on which
charge is resumed. When joining time is allowed to a government servant returning from leave out of India, the last day
of his leave is the day before the arrival of the vessel in which he returns at her mooring or anchorage in the port of
disembarkation, or, if he returns by air, the day on which the aircraft in which he returns arrives at its first regular port in
India. Sundays or other recognized holidays may be perfixed to leave or affixed to leave or joining time subject to such
conditions and under such circumstances as the Governor may by rule or order prescribe.
(For rules made by the Governor under rule 68, see Part III of this Volume, Chapter VII).
Audit instructions regarding Rule 68
1. The joining time of a government servant who returns from leave out of India and disembarks, not at the first port of
call in India, but at another such port, should be recknoned from the day of arrival of the vessel at the second or
subsequent port at which he actually disembarks, whether the sea journey from the first port of call in India to the
subsequent port of disembarkation is made in the same steamer which takes him to the first port of call or in some other
steamer.
2. The provision in this rule-that when joining time is allowed to a government servant returning from leave out of India,
the last day of his leave is the day before the arrival of the vessel in which he returns at her mooring or anchorage in the
port of disembarkation, or if he returns by air, the day on which the aircraft in which he returns arrives at its first regular
port in India-applies only to cases falling under Fundamental Rule 105(c) in which joining time is granted to a
government servant returning from leave out of India of more than four months' duration.
69.
A government servant on leave may not take any service or accept any employment without obtaining the previous
sanction of-
(a)
the Government, if the proposed service or employment lies elsewhere than in Asia;
(b)
the Governor, if the proposed service or employment lies in Asia elsewhere than in India; and
(c)
the Governor or any lower authority empowered to appoint him, if the proposed service or employment lies in India;
Provided that a government servant who has been granted permission to take any service or accept any employment
under this rule, during leave preparatory to retirement, shall be precluded, save with the specific consent of the
Governor or any lower authority empowered to appoint him, as the case may be, from with drawing his request for
permission to retire, and from returning to duty.
Note - This rule does not apply to casual literary work, or to service as an examiner or similar employment; nor does it
apply to acceptance of foreign service, which is governed by rule 110.
Orders of the Governor regarding Rule 69
1. In a case where a government servant has been granted leave on the strength of a medical certificate this rule should
not be construed as permitting him to undertake regular employment during such leave.
Page 54/98
----- PAGE 55 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
2. Officers on leave preparatory to retirement, desiring to take up Government employment, shall be given the option of
retiring forthwith, or of remaining on leave, until they have exhausted the leave admissible to them, on condition that, so
long as they are employed under the Government, leave-salary will be restricted to the amount of the pension
admissible to them on retirement. In the case of non-pensionable government servants re-employed during their leave
preparatory to retirement in a department other than their present departments in India or Pakistan, the leave-salary
shall, however, be restricted to half of leave-salary admissible in respect of leave on full pay or average pay as the case
may be.
70.
All orders recalling a government servant to duty before the expiry of his leave should state whether the return to duty is
optional or compulsory. If the return is optional, the government servant is entitled to no concession. If it is compulsory,
he is entitled-
(a)
If the leave from which he is recalled is out of India-
(i)
to receive a free passage to India; and, provided that he has not completed half the period of his leave by the date of
leaving for India on recall, or three months, whichever period is shorter, to receive a refund of the cost of his passage
from India;
(ii)
to count the time spent on the voyage to India as duty for purposes of calculating leave; and
(iii)
to receive leave-salary during the voyage to India and for the period from the date of landing in India to the date of
joining his post to be paid leave-salary at the same rate at which he would have drawn it had he not been recalled but
returned in the ordinary course on the termination of his leave and for the latter period travelling allowance under rules
made in this behalf by the Governor.
(b)
If the leave from which he is recalled is in India, to be treated as on duty from the date on which he starts for the station
to which he is ordered, and to draw travelling allowance under rules made in this behalf by the Governor for the journey,
but to draw until he joins his post leave-salary only.
Orders of the Governor regarding Rule 70
1. Order recalling a government servant from leave out of India should be communicated to him officially through the
High Commissioner for India.
2. The concession referred to in the second sentence of this rule is a concession of the category permitted by this rule.
The concessions under rule 70 are clearly not intended to affect the Privileges of government servants which are
admissible under other rules; the concession may be availed of when they happen to prove additional to, or better than,
the ordinary privileges.
Audit Instructions regarding Rule 70(a)(iii)
The expression "on the termination of his leave" in clause (a)(iii) of Fundamental Rule 70 means "on the termination of
the period of leave as determined by his recall as opposed to the whole of the leave he was originally granted". The
effect of this interpretation will be to make the same leave-salary admissible for the period of transit in India as would be
admissible has the return to duty been voluntary and the period of voyage been leave proper and the period of transit in
India been leave proper or joining time under Fundamental Rule 105, as the case may be.
71.
No government servant who has been granted leave on medical certificate may return to duty without first producing a
medical certificate of fitness in such form as the Governor may by rule or order prescribe. The Government may require
a similar certificate in the case of any government servant who has been granted leave for reasons of health, even
though such leave was not actually granted on a medical certificate.
(For rules made by the Governor under rule 71, see Part III of this Volume, Chapter VIII).
72.
Unless he is permitted to do so by the authority which granted his leave, a government servant on leave may not return
to duty more than fourteen days before the expiry of the period of leave granted to him.
73.
Page 55/98
----- PAGE 56 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
A government servant who remains absent after the end of his leave is entitled to no leave-salary for the period of such
absence, and that period will be debited against his leave account as though it were leave on half average pay, unless
his leave is extended by the Government. Wilful absence from duty after the expiry of leave may be treated as
misbehaviour for the purpose of rule 15.
Note - In the case of a government servant governed by leave rules laid down in Fundamental Rule 81-B and Subsidiary
Rule 157-A, who remains absent after the end of his leave, the period of such overstayal of leave should, unless the
leave is extended by the competent authority, be treated as follows:
(a)
If the government servant is in superior service and holds a lien on a permanent post-
(i)
as leave on private affairs to the extent such leave is due unless the overstayal is supported by a medical certificate.
(ii)
as leave on medical certificate to the extent such leave is due, if the overstayal is supported by a medical certificate,
(iii)
as extraordinary leave to the extent the period of leave on private affairs and/or on medical certificate falls short of the
period of overstayal;
(b)
If the government servant is in superior service without a lien on a permanent post or in inferior service, as in (a) (ii) and
(iii) above mutatis mutandis.
The period of overstayal of leave will be debited as leave taken but no leave salary will be paid for such period unless it
is covered by an extension of leave granted by the competent authority.
74.
(a)
Subject to the instructions contained in the rules made by the Governor under section 151 of the Act in connexion with
the control of the issue of money from treasuries, or by the Auditor General of India in order to secure efficiency and
uniformity of audit, the procedure to be followed in India in respect of the following matters shall be such as the
Governor may, be rule or order, prescribe:
(i)
in making application for leave and for permission to return from leave.
(ii)
in granting leave,
(iii)
in the payment of leave salary, and
(iv)
in the maintenance of records of service.
(b)
The procedure to be followed elsewhere than in India will also be prescribed by the Governor in a similar manner.
(For instructions of the Auditor General and rules made under rule 74 by the Governor, see Part III of this Volume,
Chapters IX and X and Appendix 'A' at the end of that Part).
Section III - [* * *]
75.
to 75C.
[* * *]
Section IV - Grant of Leave
76.
A leave account shall be maintained for each government servant.
Audit instructions regarding Rule 76
Two sets of leave accounts may be maintained in the case of government servants who served under district boards for
whom contribution for leave has not paid.
Auditor-General's decision under Rule 76
The overstayal of leave taken by a government servant before January 1st, 1922, should not be debited in his leave
Page 56/98
----- PAGE 57 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
account.
77.
In the leave account of a government servant shall be credited-
(i)
if he was recruited before January 1, 1931, two-elevenths of the period spent on duty; and
(ii)
if he was recruited on or after January 1, 1931 but before January 1, 1936, three-twenty-seconds of the period spent on
duty.
Note - The following credits shown in the leave account of a government servant recruited prior to January 1, 1922, shall
stand:
(1)
the privilege leave which was, on the date on which he became subject to the Fundamental Rules, permissible to grant
to him under the rules in force prior to that date, plus
(2)
one-twelfth of the period spent on duty or on privilege leave prior to that date, plus
(3)
two-elevenths of the period spent on duty subsequent to that date, plus
(4)
in the case of a government servant who was subject, at the time when the Fundamental Rules came into force, to the
Indian Service Leave Rules which were in force in January, 1920, one-third of any period of leave on medical certificate
taken under those rules.
Audit instructions regarding Rule 77
1. Fractions of a day should not appear in the leave accounts. Fractions below ½ should be ignored and those of ½ or
more should be reckoned as one day.
2. [Five-twenty-seconds of the period spent on duty should be calculated thus:]
[Mentioned in Fundamental Rule 77 in Part I of this Volume.]
The amount of duty as expressed in terms of years, months and days should be multiplied by five and the product
divided by twenty-two. In this process of multiplication and division a month should be reckoned as equal to 30 days.
Two-elevenths of the period spent on duty should also be calculated similarly.
3. [* * *]
4. [* * *]
5. [* * *]
78.
In the case of a government servant for whom a leave account is maintained, the amount of leave debited against his
account is-
(a)
the actual period of leave on average pay, including any furlough on average salary taken under rules in force prior to
January 1, 1922, but excluding special disability leave on average pay under rule 83(7), and
(b)
half the period of leave on half average pay (other than special disability leave) or on quarter average pay or of special
disability leave on average pay under rule 83(7) (b).
Note - (1) No privilege leave taken under the former Civil Leave Rules is debitable under (a) above.
Note - (2) Furlough, leave on medical certificate and special leave with allowances taken under the Indian Service Leave
Rules as they stood before January 1, 1922, are debitable under (b) above.
79.
[* * *]
80.
The amount of leave due to a government servant for whom a leave account is maintained is the balance of leave at his
credit in the leave account.
81.
Leave may be granted at the discretion of the authority competent to grant the leave, subject to the following restrictions
Page 57/98
----- PAGE 58 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
in respect of government servants for whom a leave account is maintained:
(a)
The maximum amount of leave which may be granted expressed in terms of leave on average pay is-
(i)
one-eleventh of the period spent on duty; or in the case of a government servant recruited before January 1, 1922, who
has formerly been subject to the leave rules in the Civil Service Regulations, the period of privilege leave which was
permissible to grant to him under those rules on the date on which he ceased to be subject to them, plus one-eleventh of
the period spent on duty subsequent to that date; plus
(ii)
two and a half years:
Provided that special disability leave on half average pay or on average pay under rule 83(7)(a) shall not be taken into
account in calculating the maximum prescribed by this clause, and in the case of such leave taken on average pay,
under rule 83(7)(b), account shall be taken of only half the period thereof.
(b)
The maximum amount of leave on average pay including any furlough on average salary taken under rules in force prior
to January 1, 1922, but excluding special disability leave on average pay under rule 87(7)(a) which may be granted is-
(i)
four months at any one time, and
(ii)
in all, one-eleventh of the period spent on duty; or in the case of a government servant recruited before January 1, 1922,
who has formerly been subject to the leave rules in the Civil Service Regulations, the period of privilege leave which was
permissible to grant to him under those rules on the date on which he ceased to be subject to them, plus one-eleventh of
the period spent on duty subsequent to that date:
Provided that in the case of a government servant, who either takes leave on medical certificate other than leave
preparatory to retirement or spends his leave elsewhere than in India, Pakistan, Ceylon, Nepal, or Burma, the maximum
leave on average pay which may be granted to him is eight months at any one time if he was recruited before January 1,
1931, and six months at any one time if he was recruited on or after January 1, 1931, and before January 1, 1936, and
in all, the total period mentioned in clause (b) (ii) above, plus one year or six months according as he was recruited
before January 1, 1931, or on or after that but before January 1, 1936.
(c)
Save in the case of leave preparatory to retirement, leave not due may be granted subject to the following conditions:
(i)
on medical certificate, without limit of amount; and
(ii)
otherwise than on medical certificate, for not more than three months at any one time and six months in all, reckoned in
terms of leave on average pay.
Note - In cases where a government servant who has been granted leave not due under this clause applies for
permission to retire voluntarily the leave not due shall, if the permission be granted, be cancelled and his retirement shall
have effect from the date on which such leave commenced.
(d)
The maximum period of continuous absence from duty on leave granted otherwise than on medical certificate is
twenty-eight months. This period shall in no circumstances be exceeded by a government servant who is on leave
preparatory to retirement.
(e)
When a government servant returns from leave which was not due and which was debited against his leave account, no
leave will become due to him until the expiration of a fresh period spent on duty sufficient to earn a credit of leave equal
to the period of leave which he took before it was due.
Orders of the Governor regarding Rule 81(b)
1. If a government servant is placed on deputation in Europe or America while on leave out of India, the deputation shall
be regarded as an interruption of the leave already granted. The expression "at any one time" in the above rule should
be interpreted as meaning "in each separate period of leave granted". The leave of such a government servant will, in
Page 58/98
----- PAGE 59 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
ordinary circumstances, be extended by the period of deputation, but the deputation will not entitle him to a fresh grant
of leave.
The intention of the above orders is that in such cases the balance of the un-enjoyed leave should be worked out before
the deputation intervenes and the amount of leave to be enjoyed subsequently on the expiry of the deputation should be
restricted to this available balance.
2. When a government servant proceeds on leave on medical certificate not more than one year before the right of
voluntary retirement accrues to him or when he is likely to reach the age of superannuation in the course of a year, and
is granted leave on average pay in excess of that admissible otherwise than on medical certificate, by virtue of a medical
certificate under the proviso to clause (b) of rule 81, an undertaking should be taken from him that if he subsequently
decides to retire at the end of the leave or of an extension of that leave he will refund over payments, if any,
representing the difference between average pay and half average pay for the period in excess of that admissible
otherwise than on medical certificate. If a government servant is compulsorily retired by reason of being invalided, no
demand for the recovery of excess leave salary resulting from the conversion of a portion of his leave on average pay
into leave on half average pay should be made. In other cases recovery of the excess payment must be made. The
authority competent to sanction retirement should deal with the question of the recovery or otherwise of excess leave
salary without making a reference in each case to Government. Only such cases should be referred to Government in
which even though the retirement is voluntary it is proposed in view of some exceptional circumstances not to make the
recovery of the excess leave salary. The leave on average pay in excess of that admissible otherwise than on medical
certificate should in all cases of subsequent retirement be commuted into leave on half average pay and should be
counted for pension as such.
Orders of the Governor regarding Rule 81(c)
Leave not due may in no case be granted unless the sanctioning authority is satisfied that, as far as can be reasonably
foreseen, the government servant will return to duty and earn it. Except as provided in the Note to rule 81(c), when leave
not due is granted, it should in all cases (subject to the government servant's wishes) be allowed to stand, including
cases in which the government servant fails to earn it by subsequent duty.
Orders of the Governor regarding Rule 81
When a government servant belonging to a vacation department is allowed to affix vacation to leave taken under this
rule, the period of leave on average pay plus vacation which may be taken at any one time is limited to four months. If,
however, the period of leave on average pay and the vacation are covered by a medical certificate or spent outside
India, Ceylon, Nepal, Burma or Aden, leave on average pay may be taken in combination with vacation up to a total
period of eight months or six months as the case may be.
Audit instructions regarding Rule 81
1. If leave on average pay is applied for after a government servant has had leave on half average pay in continuation of
a period of leave on average pay either by the production of a medical certificate or by a government servant proceeding
out of India, Ceylon or Nepal, the period of leave on average pay that may then be granted should be similarly limited to
the period actually covered by the medical certificate or spent elsewhere than in India, Ceylon or Nepal. The grant of the
leave should also be so regulated that the total period of leave on average pay during that spell of leave does not
exceed eight months. In such cases the total period of leave on average pay shall be treated as one continuous spell of
leave on average pay in order to determine whether the first four months of leave should be treated as privilege leave for
purposes of pension.
2. The limit of 28 months of continuous absence prescribed in this rule includes the period of vacation, if any, with which
leave is combined.
3. (i) In the case of a government servant subject to the ordinary leave rules two pro forma accounts of leave on full
average pay will have to be kept, one which includes leave on medical certificate or spent outside India, Ceylon or Nepal
and the other which excludes such leave. Assuming the privilege leave at credit of a government servant on January 1,
1922, to be "x", the one-eleventh of the period spent on duty subsequent to that date to be "y" and the additional year
referred to at * * clause (b) * * of rule 81, or any less period which alone he may have at his credit as "z" two accounts
will have to be kept-
(1)
for x y z which may be called account "A", and
(2)
Page 59/98
----- PAGE 60 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
for x y which may be called account "B".
All leave on full average pay should be debited to account "A" and whenever the government servant proceeds on such
leave on medical certificate or outside India, Ceylon or Nepal, it should be seen that this account is not overdrawn.
Leave without medical certificate spent in India, Ceylon or Nepal should alone be debited to account "B" and whenever
such leave is granted it should be seen that neither this account nor account "A" is overdrawn.
(ii)
In preparing leave account "A", "z" is always the actual amount of leave on average pay taken on medical certificate or
outside India, Ceylon or Nepal subject to a maximum of one year. When one application is received for leave on
average pay on medical certificate or outside India, Ceylon or Nepal it must be seen that the amount asked for plus the
amount already taken does not exceed "one year".
(iii)
It is not necessary that the two proforma accounts of leave on average pay should be opened on separate pages of the
leave account. The column "Leave taken on average pay" in the prescribed form can be used for account "A" referred to
above, account "B" being worked out in any spare space available either in the last column or elsewhere.
4. The expression "continuous absence from duty on leave" occurring in clause (d) of this rule does not include absence
on extraordinary leave; but includes absence on "special leave" granted in connexion with the award of Commonwealth
Fund Service Fellowships if, owing to a combination of ordinary leave with such "special leave", the aggregate period of
absence exceeds 28 months.
5. If, under the operation of the proviso to rule 81 (b) * * the maximum amount of leave on average pay admissible at a
time (i.e. the period of leave at credit in column 6 of the leave account in form no. 11-B subject to a maximum of four
months) is increased, further leave on average pay may not be granted in continuation unless such leave is taken on
medical certificate or is spent elsewhere than in India, Ceylon or Nepal, but such leave on average pay which may be
taken on medical certificate or outside India. Ceylon on Nepal up to a maximum of twelve months in a government
servant's whole service, if due, does not consume the leave on average pay which may be taken without medical
certificate.
6. (a) In addition to leave on average pay for four months under Fundamental Rule 83(7)(a) which is not debitable to the
leave account, the maximum amount of leave on average pay that can be taken whether under Fundamental Rule
83(7)(b) or under Fundamental Rule 81(b) or both can be only eight months. This follows from * * * Fundamental Rule
83(7)(b), under which a government servant is allowed to draw leave salary equal to average pay for a period not
exceeding the period which would otherwise be admissible to him as leave on average pay. Under Fundamental Rule
81(b) this period is limited to * * * four months * * * which may be extended by another four months in certain
circumstances * * *. In case leave on average pay for eight months, if admissible under Fundamental Rule 81(b), is all
taken under Fundamental Rule 83(7)(b), no further leave on average pay can be taken under the provisions of the
former rule. The total leave on average pay that can be granted to a government servant, therefore, is only twelve
months, viz., four months under Fundamental Rule 83(7)(a) and eight months under Fundamental Rule 83(7)(b) or
under Fundamental Rule 81 (b) or both.
(b)
Under Fundamental Rules 83(4) special disability leave can be combined with leave of any other kind. There is no
objection to the interpolation of ordinary leave between periods of special disability leave provided that the limits laid
down in Fundamental Rule 81(b) are not exceeded in respect of leave on average pay other then special disability leave
taken under Fundamental Rule 83(7)(a). An amplification of Fundamental Rule 83(4) has not been considered to be
necessary as Fundamental Rule 81 (b) indicates clearly that for the calculation of the maximum leave on average pay
other than such leave taken under Fundamental Rule 83 (7)(a) should not be excluded.
81A.
[* * *]
81B.
With the exception of government servants of non-Asiatic domicile who may be specially recruited overseas and who
shall be subject to such leave terms as may be prescribed by Government in each case, the following leave rules shall
apply to:
(a)
all government servants who enter government service on or after April 1, 1966, and hold a lien on a permanent post or
Page 60/98
----- PAGE 61 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
would have held a lien on such post, had their lien not been suspended;
(b)
all government servants who were recruited before April l, 1966, and to whom Fundamental Rule 81-B applied on that
date:
Provided that the earned leave at their credit on April 1, 1966, shall stand and they shall earn further leave under
sub-rule (1) of this rule with effect from that date;
(c)
all government servants, recruited before January 1, 1936, to whom Fundamental Rule 81 applies and who elect in
writing to come under these rules by making specific declaration to Government to this effect. The option once exercised
shall be final:
Provided that:
(i)
the balance of leave on average pay at the credit of such a government servant on the date of exercising the option
referred to above shall not lapse, He will first exhaust all such leave in excess of one hundred and eighty days and when
the balance of such leave falls below this period, he shall begin to earn leave under these rules;
(ii)
the amount of leave on average pay on medical certificate already taken under the proviso to clause (b) of Fundamental
Rule 81 shall be deducted from the maximum limit of twelve months' leave on medical certificate on average pay
admissible under sub-rule (2) of this rule;
(iii)
the number of days of leave on average pay in excess of four months spent elsewhere than in India, Pakistan, Ceylon,
Nepal, Burma or Aden under the proviso to clause (b) of Fundamental Rule 81 shall be deducted from the maximum
limit of 365 days' leave on private affairs on half average pay admissible, under sub-rule (3) of this rule; but in case the
total exceeds 365 days no further leave on private affairs shall be earned.
(1)
[ Earned leave - The following procedure shall be deemed to have come into force with effect from January 1, 1978 in
regard to calculation of earned leave in respect of Government servants serving in the State :
(i)
Earned Leave of thirty one days shall be credited in advance, in the leave account of every Government servant, in two
half yearly instalments, in each calendar year. Sixteen days earned leave shall be credited on the first day of January
and fifteen days earned leave on the first day of July of every calendar year;
(ii)
Earned leave at the credit of a Government servant at the close of the previous half year shall be carried forward to the
next half year, subject to the condition that the leave so carried forward plus the credit for the half year, does not exceed
a maximum limit of one hundred and eighty days, raised to two hundred and forty days with effect from January 1, 1987.
In the case of a Government servant appointed on or after first January 1978, earned leave shall be credited at the rate
of two and half days for each completed calendar month of service which he is likely to render in a half year of the
calendar year in which he is appointed;
(iii)
when the total earned leave amounts to two hundred and forty days, a Government servant shall cease to earn such
leave,
Note. - The limit of one hundred and eighty days was raised to two hundred and forth days with effect from January 1,
1987.
(iv)
the credit of earned leave under clauses (i) and (ii) above shall be reduced by one-tenth of the period of extraordinary
leave availed of during the previous half year, subject to a maximum of fifteen days;
(v)
in the case of Government servant who ceases to be a Government servant due to retirement, resignation, death or any
other reason in a particular half year, earned leave shall be credited to his leave account at the rate of 2½ (two and half)
days for each completed calendar month upto the date he ceases to be a Government servant. In such cases a
deduction on account of extraordinary leave availed of from the beginning of that particular half year up to the date he
Page 61/98
----- PAGE 62 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
ceases to be a Government servant shall be made from earned leave credited to his leave account for, that particular
half year. If the earned leave already availed of is more than the credit so due to him necessary adjustment shall be
made in respect of leave salary, if any, overdrawn. Therefore, before any payment of leave salary and/or pay is made to
the Government servant concerned in respect of that month in which he ceases to be a Government servant, it shall be
duly ensured by the competent authority that the earned leave in excess of the credit so due to him has not been
sanctioned and overpayment of leave salary has not been made :
(vi)
while affording credit of earned leave, fractions of a day shall be rounded off to the nearest day.
(vii)
A Government servant on leave on the last day of a half year shall be entitled to avail of the earned leave to be credited
in his leave account on the first day of the following half year of the calendar year, subject to the condition that the
authority competent to sanction leave has reason to believe that the Government servant shall return to duty on its
expiry.
(viii)
the leave accounts of Government servants in respect of earned leave as they existed before commencement of these
rules, shall be closed and earned leave at their credit on December 31, 1977 shall be carried forward in their new leave
account is to be maintained in Form 11-D, enclosed to these rules.
(ix)
every order sanctioning earned leave issued by the competent authority in respect of Government servant subordinate
to him shall indicate the balance of earned leave at the credit of the Government servant concerned at the time.
(x)
subject to the provisions of Fundamental Rules 67 and and 86-A :-
(a)
the maximum period of earned leave that may be granted to a Government servant at a time shall be one hundred and
twenty days if spent in India;
(b)
earned leave may be granted to him exceeding a period of 120 days but not exceeding 180 days if the entire leave so
granted or any portion thereof is spent in a foreign country but the period of such leave spent in India shall not in the
aggregate exceed the limit of 120 days.
(xi)
in the case of a Government servant serving in a vacation department :
(a)
the period of earned leave admissible to him shall be reduced by thirty days for each year of duty in which he avails
himself of the full vacation.
(b)
if he is prevented by reason of Government work from availing himself of the full vacation in any year as provided in the
Subsidiary Rules 145 and 146, the earned leave admissible to him shall be reduced by a fraction of thirty days equal to
the proportion which the part of the vacation availed of bears to the full period of the vacation.
(c)
if in any year he does not avail himself of the vacation in terms of Subsidiary Rules 145 and 146, the earned leave
admissible to him shall not be subject to any reduction.
(d)
vacation may be taken in combination with or in continuation of any kind of leave under these rules, provided that the
total duration of vacation and earned leave is taken in combination with, or in continuation of other leave or not, shall not
exceed the amount of earned leave admissible to him at a time under clause (ii) of this rule except when it is taken for
obtaining higher technical qualifications in which case the limit shall be two hundred and seventy days.
(xii)
a Government servant may be permitted to surrender a portion of earned leave at his credit and allowed cash payment
in lieu thereof in accordance with the orders issued by Government, in this regard, from time to time.]
(2)
Leave on medical certificate. - (i) A Government servant to whom these rules apply may be granted leave on medical
Page 62/98
----- PAGE 63 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
certificate not exceeding twelve months in all during his entire service. Such leave shall be given only on production of a
certificate from such medical authority as the Governor may, by general or special order, specify in this behalf and for a
period not exceeding that recommended by such medical authority :
Provided that when the maximum period of twelve months is exhausted, further leave on medical certificate not
exceeding six months in all during entire service may be granted, in exceptional cases on the recommendations of a
medical board :
Provided further that in all cases in which Government servants may have before the date of application of these rules to
them availed of leave on medical certificate under Fundamental Rule 81-B and Subsidiary Rules 157 or 157-A, as the
case may be, the period of such leave availed of, under Fundamental Rule 81-B and Subsidiary Rule 157-A, as the case
may be, and half the period of such leave availed of under Subsidiary Rule 157, shall be-taken into account in
calculating the leave due to them under this rule.
(ii)
[ Under this rule, leave upto sixty days may be granted by the competent authority on recommendation of the authorised
medical authority. Leave exceeding this period may not be granted unless the competent authority is satisfied that there
is a reasonable probability that the Government servant will be fit to return to duty on the expiry of the leave applied for :
[Substituted by Notification No. G-4-525/X-96-201/1996, dated 19th August, 1996 (w.e.f. 26th October, 1996).]
Provided that when a Government servant dies during the treatment of his illness and the medical leave is otherwise
due to such Government servant, the authority competent to grant leave shall sanction the medical leave.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G-4-1071/X-92-201/76, dated 21st December, 1992.]
(3)
[ Leave on Private Affairs. - A Government servant to whom these rules apply may also be granted leave on private
affairs not exceeding three hundred and sixty five days in all during this entire service.
(i)
He shall be entitled to thirty-one days leave on private affairs in every calendar year.
The following procedure shall be deemed to have come into force with effect from 1st July, 1979; in regard to calculation
of leave on Private affairs in respect of Government servants serving in the State :
(ii)
Leave on private affairs shall be credited in advance, in the leave account of every Government servant in two
half-yearly instalments in each calendar year.
Sixteen days' leave on private affairs shall be credited on the first day of January and fifteen days leave on private affairs
on the first day of July of every calendar year.
(iii)
When the total of leave on private affairs amounts to three hundred and sixty five days, a Government servant shall
cease to earn such leave.
(iv)
The leave on private affairs at the credit of a Government servant at the close of the previous half year shall be carried
forward to the next half year, subject to the condition that the leave so carried forward plus the credit for the half year do
not exceed a maximum limit of three hundred and sixty five days.
(v)
In the case of a Government servant appointed on or after 1st July, 1979, the leave on private affairs shall be credited at
the rate of 2½ (two and half) days for such completed calendar month of service which he is likely to render in a half
year of the calendar year in which he is appointed.
(vi)
The credit of leave on private affairs under clauses (i) and (ii) above shall be reduced by one-tenth of the period of
extraordinary leave availed of during the previous half year subject to a maximum of fifteen days.
(vii)
In the case of a Government servant who ceases to be a Government servant due to retirement, resignation, death or
any other reason in a particular half year, the leave on private affairs shall be credited to his leave account at the rate of
2½ (two and half) days for each completed calendar month upto the date he ceases to be a Government servant. In
such cases the deduction on account of extraordinary leave availed of from the beginning of that particular half year upto
the date he ceases to be a Government servant shall be made from leave on private affairs credited to his leave account
Page 63/98
----- PAGE 64 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
for that particular half year. If the leave on private affairs already availed of is more than the credit so due to him
necessary adjustment shall be made in respect of leave salary, if any, overdrawn. Therefore, before any payment of
leave salary and/or pay is made to the Government servant concerned in respect of that month in which he ceases to be
a Government servant, it shall be duly ensured by the competent authority that the leave on private affairs in excess of
the credit so due to him has not been sanctioned and overpayment of leave salary has not been made;
(viii)
while affording credit of leave on private affairs fractions of a day shall be rounded off to the nearest day;
(ix)
A Government servant on leave on the last day of a half year shall be entitled to avail of the leave on private affairs to be
credited to his leave account on the first day of the following half year of the calendar year, subject to the condition that
the competent authority has reason to believe that the Government servant shall return to duty on its expiry.
(x)
The leave accounts of Government servants in respect of leave on private affairs as they existed before the
commencement of these rules shall be closed and leave on private affairs at their credit on 30th June, 1979 shall be
carried forward to their new leave accounts, to be maintained in Form 11-E enclosed to these rules;
(xi)
Every order sanctioning leave on private affairs issued by the competent authority in respect of Government servants
subordinate to him shall indicate the balance of leave on private affairs at the credit of the Government servant
concerned at that time;
(xii)
The maximum period of leave on private affairs that may be granted to a Government servant at a time shall be ninety
days if spent in India. Leave on private affairs may be granted to him exceeding a period of ninety days but not
exceeding one hundred and eighty days if the entire leave so granted or any portion thereof is spent outside India but
the period of such leave spent in India shall not in the aggregate exceed the limit of ninety days;
(xiii)
No leave may be granted under this sub-rule unless the authority competent to sanction leave has reason to believe that
the Government servant will return to duty on its expiry or unless it is included in leave preparatory to retirement;
(xiv)
In all cases in which Government servants may have, before the commencement of these rules, availed of leave on
private affairs under Fundamental Rule 81-B and Subsidiary Rule 157-A, the period of leave so availed of shall be taken
into account in arriving at the amount of leave on private affairs admissible under this sub-rule. For this purpose, the
Government servant shall be deemed to have earned the leave on private affairs, not exceeding three hundred and sixty
five days, under the provisions of these rules, from the date of their continuous service, whether in a temporary or a
permanent capacity. If leave in excess of three hundred and sixty five days has been taken by a Government servant
before the application of this sub-rule in his case, the minus balance shall be waived and no further leave shall be
earned by him. In other cases where a Government servant has availed of leave in excess of the leave admissible on
the date but not exceeding the limit of three hundred and sixty five days, it shall be adjusted against the leave on private
affairs that will be earned by him subsequently.]
(4)
Commuted leave - Commuted leave, that is half the amount of leave on private affairs admissible under sub-rule (3) of
this rule, may be allowed at the option of the government servant proceeding on study leave under Fundamental Rule
84, subject to the following conditions:
(i)
The authority competent to sanction leave is satisfied that the government servant requires the leave for purposes of
obtaining higher technical qualifications;
(ii)
The grant of the leave shall be restricted on any one occasion to forty-five days if spent wholly in Asia and to ninety days
if spent wholly outside Asia. If the leave is spent partly in and partly outside Asia, the period shall be restricted to
forty-five days plus such time as is actually spent outside Asia subject to a maximum total period of ninety days;
(iii)
When commuted leave is granted, twice the amount of such leave shall be debited in the leave account against the
Page 64/98
----- PAGE 65 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
leave on private affairs due;
(iv)
No leave may be granted under this rule unless the authority competent to sanction leave has reason to believe that the
government servant will return to duty on its expiry.
(5)
Extraordinary leave - A government servant to whom these rules apply may be granted extraordinary leave in
accordance with the provisions of Fundamental Rule 85, read with Fundamental Rule 18.
(6)
Any kind of leave under these rules may be granted in combination with or in continuation of any other kind of leave.
Orders of the Governor regarding Rule 81-B
1. In calculating "earned leave" under this rule, the actual number of days of duty performed should first be counted and
then multiplied by one-eleventh, the product expressed in days (and fractions of a day) and limited to 120 days being the
"earned leave" admissible under this rule.
2. The term "year" occurring in the second proviso to rule (I) of this rule, should as in the case of the expression "each
year of duty" in clause (b) of rule 82 be interpreted to mean not a calendar year in which duty is performed, but twelve
months of actual duty; and the earned leave admissible to a government servant on a particular date should be
calculated in the manner indicated in paragraph 1 of the audit instructions regarding rule 82(b) and in the order of the
Governor regarding that rule.
3. It is not desirable that a government servant should exhaust in the early part of his service all the medical leave that
may be admissible to him under the rules, and therefore long stretches of such leave should not be sanctioned without
careful scrutiny. In particular the sanctioning authority should be satisfied in each case that after the expiry of the leave
the government servant will be fit for duty. Medical authorities are precluded from recommending the grant of leave in
cases in which there appears no reasonable prospect of a government servant being ever fit to resume his duties. In
doubtful cases, the sanctioning authority can further satisfy itself by asking for the medical authority's opinion specifically
on this point, or where the leave has been recommended by an authority other than a medical committee, by referring
the case to such a committee. The subsidiary rules in Part III clearly lay down that the possession of a medical
certificate as prescribed therein does not by itself confer upon the government servant concerned any right to leave, and
in extreme cases it may be necessary to refuse the leave altogether in order that the government servant may be
invalidated from service.
81C.
[* * *]
82.
The following provisions apply to vacation departments only:
(a)
The departments or parts of departments which shall be treated as vacation departments and the conditions in which a
government servant shall be considered to have availed himself of a vacation, shall be determined according to the rules
which the Governor may prescribe.
(For rules made by the Governor under rule 82, see Part III of this Volume, Chapter XI).
(b)
Vacation counts as duty, but in the case of a government servant recruited before January 1, 1936, other than an inferior
government servant, the periods of total leave in rules 77, 81 (a) and 81 (b) should ordinarily be reduced by one month
for each year of duty in which government servant has availed himself of the vacation. If a part only of the vacation has
been taken in any year, the period to be deducted will be a fraction of a month equal to the proportion which the part of
the vacation taken bears to the full period of the vacation.
Orders of the Governor regarding Rule 82(b)
In the case of a government servant who, at the time of going on leave, has not completed a full year of duty and has
not for that reason enjoyed any portion of a vacation but who enjoys the next vacation in continuation of the leave, it has
been decided that, for the purpose of clause (b) of this rule as explained in paragraph 1 of the audit instructions, a
deduction of one-twelfth may be made for the period for which one-eleventh is credited. If subsequently it is found that
the vacation has not been enjoyed, the deduction already made can be suitably corrected.
Audit instructions regarding Rule 82(b)
Page 65/98
----- PAGE 66 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
1. The term "each year of duty" should be interpreted to mean, not a calendar year in which duty is performed, but
twelve months of actual duty in a vacation department. If the government servant has enjoyed such vacation as falls
within a period of twelve months beginning on the date following the date on which he completed the previous year of
duty, then one month should be deducted from his leave account. It does not matter whether the day on which this year
ends, falls in a vacation in the succeeding calendar year. The only question is whether the government servant has
enjoyed such vacation as fell within the period of one year as interpreted above. If, to take an example, a government
servant before going on leave has not completed a full year of duty (including vacation) during the course of the second
calendar year, then the fraction of one month which should be deducted from the leave account is the fraction which the
period of duty, including vacation, bears to the whole year. If to take a further complication, he has not enjoyed the
whole of the vacation which fell during that period of less than a year, then the amount which should be deducted in the
proportion of the period, which the proportion of vacation actually enjoyed plus the vacations that will fall within the
remaining period of twelve months bears to the whole period of vacation which fall within the period, of twelve months.
In the case of government servants who are allowed two vacations in the year instead of one, the periods of the two
vacations should be regarded as combined into one.
2. For the purposes of Government of India, Finance Department, resolution no. 1260-C. S. R. dated December 21,
1921, a government servant of a vacation departments who combines vacation with leave on average pay can count as
service for pension only a total period of four months on each occasion; except in cases where the total amount of
vacation taken is four months or more, in which case the full amount of vacation, and no leave, will count for service.
(c)
In cases of urgent necessity, when a government servant other than an inferior government servant recruited before
January 1, 1936, requires leave and no leave is due to him, the periods in rules 77 and 81(a), as reduced by clause (b)
of this rule, may be increased by one month for every two years of duty in a vacation department.
Orders of the Governor regarding Rule 82 (c)
A government servant of a vacation department may be granted the additional leave which is credited under this rule
even though he may have a debit balance in his leave account. The credit of one month allowed by this rule is, however,
for every completed two years of duty and no fractional credit for a period of less than two years is permissible.
(d)
When a government servant other than an inferior government servant recruited before January 1, 1936, combines
vacation with leave, the period of vacation shall be reckoned as leave in calculating the maximum amount of leave on
average pay which may be included in the particular period of leave.
Audit instructions regarding rule 82
1. (i) The reduction by one month for each year of duty in which the government servant has availed himself of the
vacation as required to be made under this rule is intended to be made in respect of leave earned and vacation taken
from January 1, 1922.
(ii)
Thus, in the case of government servants of vacation department, the leave credited to their leave account under rule 77
will be-
(1)
privilege leave at their credit on January 1, 1922, i.e. privilege leave earned under articles 272 to 275, Civil Service
Regulation, plus
(2)
* * * one-twelfth of the period spent on duty or vacation (or privilege leave) up to December 31, 1921, plus
(3)
* * * two-elevenths of the period spent on duty or vacation from January 1, 1922.
From this a reduction will be made of one month for each year of duty in which the government servant avails himself of
the vacation after January 1, 1922. Similarly, the total leave admissible under rules 81(a) and 81 (b) will be reduced by
one month for each year of duty in which the vacation is taken after January 1, 1922.
2. The amount credited to the leave account under this rule as well as that added to the maximum under rule 81(a)
should be the actual amount of additional leave taken under this rule and not the total amount theoretically permissible,
viz., one month for every two years of duty.
3. It is not the intention to retain in the Fundamental Rules the restrictions on the combination of leave and vacation
Page 66/98
----- PAGE 67 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
which were imposed by article 278, Civil Service Regulations. Such combination is, however, subject to the condition
mentioned in rule 82(d) and it is thus permissible to allow a vacation to intervene between two periods of leave.
Similarly, vacations may be prefixed or affixed to leave or both prefixed and affixed.
83.
(1)
The Governor may grant special disability leave to a government servant, whether permanent or temporary, who is
disabled by injury intentionally inflicted or caused in, or in consequence of, the due performance of his official duties or in
consequence of his official position.
(2)
Such leave shall not be granted unless the disability manifested itself within three months of the occurrence to which it is
attributed, and the person disabled acted with due promptitude in bringing it to notice. But the Governor, if he is satisfied
as to the cause of the disability, may permit leave to be granted in cases where the disability manifested itself more than
three months after the occurrence of its cause.
(3)
The period of leave granted shall be such as is certified by a medical board to be necessary. It shall not be extended
except on the certificate of a medical board and shall in no case exceed 24 months.
(4)
Such leave may be combined with leave of any other kind.
(5)
Such leave may be granted more than once if the disability is aggravated or reproduced in similar circumstances at a
later date, but not more than 24 months of such leave Shall be granted in consequence of any one disability.
(6)
Such leave shall be counted as duty in calculating service for pension, and shall not, except as provided in rule 78(b), be
debited against the leave account.
(7)
Except as mentioned below, leave-salary during such leave shall be equal-
(a)
for the first four months of any period of such leave, including a period of such leave granted under clause (5) of this
rule, to average pay, and
(b)
for the remaining period of any such leave to half average pay, or at the government servant's option, for a period not
exceeding the period of average pay which would otherwise be admissible to him, to average pay:
Provided that the maxima specified in the table in sub-rule (2) of rule 89 shall, not withstanding anything contained in
that rule apply to the whole period of such leave and the minima specified in the table in rule 90 shall apply when leave
salary during such leave is equal to half average pay subject to the conditions stated in that rule.
Exception - In the case of government servants governed by Fundamental Rule 81-B or Subsidiary Rule 157-A-
(1)
the limit of four months laid down in sub-clause (a) shall be taken to mean 120 days;
(2)
the term "period of average pay" occurring in sub-clause (b) shall be taken to mean "earned leave" admissible under
sub-rule (1) of Fundamental Rule 81-B or sub-rule (1) of Subsidiary Rule 157-A as the case may be;
(3)
one-half of the amount of leave on average pay taken under sub-clause (b) shall be counted as earned leave taken; and
(4)
leave salary during leave taken under this rule shall be regulated in accordance with the provisions of Fundamental Rule
87-A or sub-rule (6) of Subsidiary Rule 157-A as the case may be.
(8)
(i)
In the case of a person to whom the Workmen's Compensation Act, 1923, applies, the amount of leave salary payable
under this rule shall be reduced by the amount of compensation payable under section 4 (1) (d) of the said Act.
(ii)
Page 67/98
----- PAGE 68 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
In the case of a person to whom the Employees' State Insurance Act, 1948, applies, the amount of leave salary payable
under this rule shall be reduced by the amount of benefit admissible under the said Act for the corresponding period.
(9)
The provisions of this rule apply to a civil servant disabled in consequence of service with a military force, if he is
discharged as unfit for further military service, but is not completely and permanently incapacitated for further civil
service, and to a civil servant not so discharged who suffers a disability which is certified by a medical board to be
directly attributable to his service with a military force; but in either case, any period of leave granted to such a person
under military rules in respect of that disability shall be reckoned as leave granted under this rule for the purpose of
calculating the period admissible.
Note - In the case of temporary government servants any disability leave sanctioned under this rule shall not extend
beyond the date the appointment is likely to last.
[For the maximum amount of leave on average pay admissible under rule 81(b) in cases where (i) special disability
leave on average pay is taken under rule 83 (7) (b) and (ii) ordinary leave is combined with, or interpolated between,
periods of special disability leave under rule 83(4), see paragraph 6 of the Audit Instruction regarding rule 81].
83A.
The Governor may extend the application of the provisions of Fundamental Rule 83 to a government servant, whether
permanent or temporary, who is disabled by injury accidentally incurred in or in consequence of the due performance of
his official duties or in consequence of his official position, or by illness incurred in the performance of any particular duty
which has the effect of increasing his liability to illness or injury beyond the ordinary risk attaching to the civil post which
he holds. The grant of this concession is subject to the further conditions:
(i)
that the disability, if due to disease, must be certified by a medical board to be directly due to the performance of the
particular duty; and
(ii)
that if the government servant has contracted such disability during service otherwise than with a military force, it must
be, in the opinion of the Governor, so exceptional in character or in the circumstances of its occurrence as to justify such
unusual treatment as the grant of this form of leave; and
(iii)
that the period of absence recommended by medical board may be covered in part by leave under this rule and in part
by other leave, and that the amount of special disability leave granted on average pay may be less than-
(a)
four months, in the case of government servants governed by Fundamental Rule 81 or Subsidiary Rule 157 as the case
may be, and
(b)
one hundred and twenty days, in the case of government servants governed by Fundamental Rule 81-B or Subsidiary
Rule 157-A as the case may be.
Note - In the case of temporary government servants any disability leave sanctioned under this rule shall not extend
beyond the date the appointment is likely to last.
83B.
(1)
A government servant recruited before January 1, 1936, who has been granted special disability leave under rule 83,
and whose domicile is elsewhere than in Asia, may be granted by the Governor, free passage by sea for himself, his
wife and children to the United Kingdom, or to any port in Europe or in a British colony, dominion, or possession, and on
the conclusion of such leave return passage to India, unless he takes leave other than leave on medical certificate in
continuation of special disability leave, in which case return passage shall not be granted save with the special sanction
of the Governor: provided that the cost of any passages granted under this rule shall not exceed the cost of passages
between India and the United Kingdom.
(2)
Passages granted under this rule may include travel by land between port of embarkation and port of debarkation, and
shall be of such class as the Governor in each case may determine.
(3)
Page 68/98
----- PAGE 69 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
The Governor may extend the application of the provisions of clauses (1) and (2) to a government servant recruited
before January 1, 1936, who has been granted Special disability leave under rule 83-A and whose domicile is elsewhere
than in Asia; provided that he may, at his discretion, grant free passages to the government servant only, or to the
government servant and his wife only.
(4)
For the purpose of this rule-
(i)
the domicile of a government servant is his domicile at the time of his appointment to Government service, as
determined in accordance with the provisions set out in the [schedule]
[See Pages 503-504 of this part.]
to these rules and no government servant who after his appointment to a service or post under the Government,
acquires a new domicile, shall thereby lose his eligibility to, or become entitled to admission to, the benefits under this
rule;
(ii)
"child" means a legitimate child (including a step-child) residing with and wholly dependent on the government servant,
who, if a female, is unmarried, or, if a male, is under the age of 16.
84.
Leave may be granted to government servants, on such terms as the Governor may by rule or order prescribe, to enable
them to study scientific, technical or similar problems or to undergo special courses of instruction. Such leave is not
debited against the leave account.
(For rules made by the Governor under rule 84, see Chapter XI-A, Part III of this Volume.)
85.
(a)
Extraordinary leave may be granted in Special circumstances (1) when no other leave is by rule admissible, or (2) when,
other leave being admissible, the government servant concerned applies in writing for the grant of extraordinary leave.
Such leave is not debited against the leave account. No leave salary is admissible during such leave.
(b)
The authority which has the power to sanction leave may grant extraordinary leave as in clause (a) in combination with,
or in continuation of, any leave that is admissible and may commute retrospectively periods of absence without leave
into extraordinary leave.
Orders of the Governor regarding Rule 85 (b)
The power of commuting retrospectively periods of absence without leave into extraordinary leave is absolute and not
subject to the conditions mentioned in clause (a) of the rule; in other words such commutation is permissible even when
other leave was admissible to the government servant concerned at the time his absence without leave commenced.
Audit instructions regarding Rule 85
1. Extraordinary leave without pay granted under the rules of the Civil Service Regulations will not also be debited
against the leave account under note 2 to rule 78.
2. "Leave not due" applied for by a government servant with or without medical certificate is "leave admissible under
rule" and in cases where "leave not due" can be granted, the grant of extraordinary leave under Fundamental Rule 85
will be irregular unless the latter kind of leave is specifically applied for in writing.
86.
(a)
In the case of a government servant recruited before January 1, 1936, leave at his credit in his leave account shall lapse
on the date of compulsory retirement provided that if in sufficient time before that date he has-
(1)
formally applied for leave and been refused it, or
(2)
ascertained in writing from the sanctioning authority that leave if applied for would not be granted-
in either case the ground of refusal being the requirements of the public service, then the government servant may be
granted, after the date of retirement, the amount of leave so refused subject to a maximum of six months.
(b)
Page 69/98
----- PAGE 70 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
A government servant retained in service after the date of compulsory retirement shall earn leave on average pay at the
rate of 1/11th of duty performed after that date and shall be allowed to add thereto any amount of leave which could
have been granted to him under clause (a) had he retired on that date. The total period which he may take on any one
occasion shall not exceed six months. When his duties finally cease, the government servant may be granted leave
preparatory to retirement, up to a maximum of six months, as follows:
(i)
the balance after deducting the amounts of leave, if any, taken during the period of extension, from the amount of leave
which could have been granted to him under clause (a) had he retired on the date of compulsory retirement, plus
(ii)
the amount of leave earned under this clause which is due to the government servant and which he has, in sufficient
time during the period of extension-
(1)
formally applied for and been refused, or
(2)
ascertained in writing from the sanctioning authority, would not be granted if applied for, in either case the ground of
refusal being the requirements of the public service.
Orders of the Governor regarding Rule 86
Leave extending beyond the date of compulsory retirement can only be granted with the sanction of the State
Government. Such sanction will be accorded only in very exceptional circumstances as it is not the intention that a
government servant should have the option of availing himself of leave after, instead of before, the date on which he is
required to retire. In no case will such leave be granted in which the requirements of the rule are not fulfilled. The
Government will not entertain an application for the grant of leave under this rule unless it is accompanied by the
following documents:
(1)
the application in which leave was applied for but which was refused, or,
(2)
the written reply from the sanctioning authority to the effect that the leave, if applied for, would be refused.
All cases in which the sanctioning authority proposes to refuse leave preparatory to retirement on public grounds should
be submitted to Government for orders. The sanctioning authority should bear in mind that refusal of leave within the
meaning of this rule must be on account of the requirements of the public service and should, therefore, clearly state
those requirements while submitting cases to Government recommending refusal of leave in case mentioned in (1)
above or proposing refusal of leave in the written reply mentioned in (2) above.
It follows from the above that the sanctioning authority should ordinarily grant the leave applied for preparatory to
retirement and should recommend to Government the refusal of leave only where it is essential in the interest of the
public service to do so, as for example-
(i)
when the particular government servant is doing an important class of work for which he is specially qualified and the
performance of which by another servant would cause undue dislocation at the time, or
(ii)
when the cadre of the service to which the servant belongs is so depleted that further depletion due to leave is likely to
cause Government serious embarrassment.
2. Even in those cases in which the requirements of the rule, as explained above, are fulfilled, there is no vested right to
leave under this rule and the Government will consider each case on its merits, having regard to the following points:
(a)
whether the government servant has taken leave at frequent intervals, so as to exhaust most of the leave admissible;
(b)
the date on which he last returned from leave;
(c)
the total amount of leave enjoyed during his service;
(d)
whether leave has, on any previous occasion, been refused to him on public grounds in circumstances involving material
Page 70/98
----- PAGE 71 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
hardship; and
(e)
the quality of the service rendered by him.
A recommendation for the grant of leave under this rule should be accompanied by a report on all these points to
facilitate the disposal of the application for leave by the Government.
3. When a government servant has been retained in service beyond the ordinary age of superannuation, the grant to
him when his duties finally cease of leave earned during the period of extension of service is subject to all the conditions
set forth in this order.
4. While the amount of the leave refused under Fundamental Rule 86(a) or (b) is fixed, the quality of the leave (i.e. on
average or half average pay), whether it is taken before or after the date of compulsory retirement or, as the case may
be the date of final cessation of duties, may be varied to the advantage of the government servant concerned within the
normal leave rule by the leave earned and standing to his credit on the date he proceeds on leave; and no second
application for leave in sufficient time and its refusal are necessary merely to ensure this variation.
5. The above orders apply mutatis mutandis to cases of grant of leave under rule 86-A.
Audit instructions regarding Rule 86
1. In the case of government servants belonging to vacation departments the period of six months referred to in this rule
should include any vacation with which leave may be combined.
2. A government servant retained in service after the age of compulsory retirement is entitled to earn leave under clause
(b) of Fundamental Rule 86 and a debit balance, if any, on the date he attained that age should be considered as wiped
off.
3. Compulsory recall from leave preparatory to retirement should be deemed to be a constructive refusal of the balance
of leave unenjoyed for the purpose of Fundamental Rule 86.
4. While the amount of the leave refused under Fundamental Rule 86 (a) is fixed, the quality of that leave (i.e. on
average or half average pay), whether it is taken before or after the date of compulsory retirement or after the date of
final cessation of duties, may be varied within the normal leave rules to the advantage of the government servant
concerned in accordance with the leave earned and standing to his credit on the date on which he proceeds on leave
prior to the date of compulsory retirement whenever he takes a portion of his refused leave before that date and
ultimately on the date of his compulsory retirement, and no second application for leave in sufficient time and its refusal
are necessary merely to ensure this variation. Similarly, the character of any period of leave on average pay admissible
under Fundamental Rule 86(a), original or so modified, may, if the government servant so desires, be converted within
the quantum admissible into a portion on average and the balance on half-average pay. No such conversion, however,
is admissible in respect of the leave on average pay (not in terms of average pay) earned under clause (b) of this rule.
86A.
A government servant recruited on or after January 1, 1936, shall not be granted any leave beyond the date on which he
must compulsorily retire:
Provided that the authority empowered to grant leave may allow any government servant, who has been denied in whole
or in part on account of the exigencies of the public service the earned leave which was due to him pending retirement
under rule 81-B, the whole or any portion of the earned leave so denied even though it extends to a date beyond the
date on which such government servant must compulsorily retire:
Provided further that a government servant whose service has been extended in the interests of the public service
beyond the date of his compulsory retirement may similarly be granted either within the period of extension of, if the
conditions of the preceding proviso are satisfied, after its expiry, any earned leave which could have been granted to him
under the preceding proviso had he retired on that date and in addition any earned leave due in respect of such
extension. In determining the amount of earned leave due, in respect of the extension, with reference to rule 81-B, the
earned leave, if any, admissible on the date of compulsory retirement shall be taken into account.
Section V - Leave Salary
87.
Subject to the conditions in rules 81, 88, 89, 90 and 91, a government servant other than an inferior government servant,
recruited before January 1, 1936, who is on leave shall, during leave, draw leave-salary as follows:
(a)
if the leave is due, leave-salary equal to average pay, or to half average pay, or to average pay during a portion of the
Page 71/98
----- PAGE 72 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
leave and half average pay during the remainder, as he may elect; and
(b)
if the leave is not due, leave-salary equal to half average pay:
Provided that when a non-gazetted government servant who was in service on the 24th day of August, 1927, takes
leave, and-
(i)
his pay is less than Rs. 300, or
(ii)
the leave taken does not exceed one month, his average pay for the purpose of this rule may be taken to be the pay
which he would draw in the permanent post held substantively by him at the time of taking leave if this pay be more than
the average pay.
87A.
[
[This amended rule shall be deemed to have come into force with effect from April 1, 1978 vide Notification No.
G-4-1395/X-38-200-76, dated October 13, 1988.]
A government servant subject to the leave rules in Fundamental Rule 81-B, when on leave, shall be entitled-
(1)
If on earned leave, or on leave on medical certificate against the limit of twelve months laid down in that rule, to leave
salary equal to the pay down immediately before proceeding on leave:
(2)
If on leave on private affairs under sub-rule (3) or on leave on medical certificate under the first proviso to sub-rule (2) (i)
of Fundamental Rule 81-B, to leave salary equal to half the amount specified in sub-rule (1) or sub-rule (2) above, as the
case may be, subject to a maximum of Rs. 750;
Provided that the limit of Rs. 750 shall not apply if the leave is for pursuing an approved course of study otherwise than
on study leave terms;
(3)
If on commuted leave, to leave salary equal to the amount admissible under sub-rule (1) or sub-rule (2) above, as the
case may be;
(4)
It on extraordinary leave, to no leave salary.
Note - In the case of a person to whom the provisions of Employees State Insurance Act, 1948, apply, the leave salary
payable under this rule in respect of leave on medical certificate shall be reduced by the amount of benefit admissible
under the said Act for the corresponding period.
Orders of the Governor regarding Rule 87-A
1. In the cases of government servants to whom rule 87-A applies, the authority competent to grant leave has no power
to alter the nature of leave applied for.
2. The authority which granted leave to a government servant governed by rule 87-A can commute it retrospectively into
leave of a different kind which was admissible at the time the leave was originally granted but the government servant
concerned cannot claim it as a matter of right. (See also orders of the Governor under Subsidiary Rule 158).
3. The commutation of one kind of leave into another automatically carries with it the drawal of arrears of leave-salary or
recovery of amounts overdrawn.]
[Substituted by Notification No. G-4-1071/X-92-201/76, dated 21st December, 1992.]
88.
After continuous absence from duty on leave for a period of 28 months, a government servant for whom a leave account
is maintained will draw leave-salary equal to quarter average pay, subject to the maxima and minima prescribed in rules
89 and 90.
Audit instructions regarding Rule 88
1. The expression "continuous absence from duty on leave" occurring in this rule does not include absence on
extra-ordinary leave; but includes absence on special leave granted in connexion with the award of Commonwealth
Fund Service Fellowships, if owing to a combination of ordinary leave with such special leave, the aggregate period of
absence exceeds 28 months.
Page 72/98
----- PAGE 73 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
2. The period of 28 months mentioned in this rule includes the period of vacation, if any, with which leave is combined.
89.
(1)
Except in the case of a government servant recruited on or after January 1, 1936, to whom the maximum rates of
leave-salary prescribed in this rule shall not apply, leave-salary during the first four months of any period of leave on
average pay, is subject to an absolute maximum of Rs. 4,000 per mensem.
(2)
Except during the first four months of any period of leave on average pay, leave salary is subject to the monthly maxima
shown in the following table:
Average
Half average
Quarter average
Outside Asia
In Asia
Outside Asia
In Asia
Outside Asia
In Asia
£
Rs.
£
Rs.
£
Rs.
150
1,500
75
750
60
600
Note - The maximum of average pay does not apply to a government servant serving in a vacation department during a
period of leave on average pay equivalent to a month for each year since his last leave during which he has not availed
himself of the vacation, and to a proportionate fraction of a month during which he has taken a part only of the vacation:
provided that, in the case of a government servant who is transferred with leave to his credit from a non-vacation to a
vacation department, the Government shall decide, on the first occasion on which he takes leave after such transfer, the
period not exceeding four months for which the maximum limit of leave salary shall not be applied to him.
Order of the Governor regarding Rule 89(2)
The note below this rule is not meant to give any additional advantage but is intended to be a restrictive exception to the
rule. A government servant is not entitled to the concession mentioned in that note in addition to the concession granted
by the rule itself but only to the drawing of full pay for a period equivalent to one month for each year since the last leave
taken during which vacation has not been enjoyed.
Order of the Governor regarding Rules 89 and 90
For the purpose of applying the rupee limits of leave salary in rules 89 and 90 when a portion of the leave salary is paid
in sterling, the latter should be converted into rupees at the rate of 1s. 6d. to the rupee.
Audit instructions regarding Rule 89
1. Vacation should be treated as the equivalent of the leave on average pay for the purposes of this rule.
2. For the purpose of the note below rule 89(2), when vacation is combined with leave, the first four months of leave on
average pay which is exempt from the application of the maximum of average pay [apart from the limit of Rs. 4,000
imposed by clause (1) of rule 89] should be calculated after taking into account the full period of the vacation so
combined, even when the vacation does not fall within the first four months of any period of combined leave and
vacation. In other words, the concession of drawing full average pay during leave combined with vacation should be
Page 73/98
----- PAGE 74 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
restricted to such period of leave on average pay earned by detention on duty during vacation since last return from
leave as is equal to the residual period, if any, which remains after deducting the period of vacation from the period of
four months. If, however, the officer so elects, he may in the alternative be allowed to have the full amount of leave on
average pay at his credit earned by detention on duty during vacation since his last return from leave subject to the limit
of four months and to combine with it as much of vacation (on full pay) as would make up the total of four months, the
rest of the vacation being sanctioned as leave on average pay, as the case may be.
90.
Subject to the condition that the leave-salary of a government servant shall in no case exceed his average pay,
leave-salary, except as otherwise provided in this rule, is subject to the monthly minima shown in the following table
when leave is taken or extended out of India elsewhere than in Pakistan, Ceylon, Nepal or Burma.
Half average
Quarter average
Outside Asia
In Asia
Outside Asia
In Asia
£
Rs.
£
Rs.
25
250
12 ½
125
Exception - The minimum rates of leave-salary prescribed in this rule shall not apply to a government servant recruited
on or after January 1, 1936.
Audit instruction regarding Rule 90
The words "average pay" occurring in Fundamental Rule 90 should be interpreted in terms of Fundamental Rule 9 (2)
and not taken as the pay which the non-gazetted government servant would draw in the permanent post held
substantively by him at the time of taking leave, if this pay be more than the average pay.
91.
(1)
That portion of leave-salary which represents overseas pay drawn in sterling shall be paid in all cases in sterling and
unless the government servant exercises his option under sub-rule (4) of drawing it in a Dominion or Colony along with
the balance of his leave-salary, the payment shall be made by the High Commissioner for India in London.
(2)
Subject to the provisions of sub-rule (1) leave-salary shall be drawn in rupees, but leave-salary in respect of leave spent
out of Asia may, at the option of the government servant, be drawn in sterling:
Provided that-
(a)
In the case of leave on average pay not exceeding four months, or of the first four months of such leave if it exceeds
four months, leave-salary due in respect of an initial period of such leave spent in Asia may, if the government servant
proceeds out of Asia during the currency of such leave, or within one month of its termination, be drawn in sterling.
(b)
In the case of leave of any other description, or of periods of leave on average pay after the first four months of such
leave, if the amount of such leave spent in Asia prior to embarkation does not in all exceed one month, leave-salary in
respect of the whole of such leave may be drawn in sterling.
(c)
In the case of an attachment order having been issued by a court in India in accordance with rule 48, Order XXI, First
Schedule, Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Act V of 1908), that part of leave-salary which is attached shall be remitted to
the court in rupees by the accounts authority in India. The balance of leave salary if payable in sterling, may then be
Page 74/98
----- PAGE 75 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
drawn after reducing the maximum and minimum rates of leave-salary prescribed in rules 89 and 90 by the amount
specified in the attachment order converted into sterling at the rate of exchange mentioned in the note under rule 51.
Note - For the purposes of this rule Cyprus shall be regarded as outside Asia.
(3)
Leave-salary drawn in rupees shall be drawn in India, or, in the case of a government servant who spends his leave in
Ceylon, or Burma, as the case may be.
(4)
Leave-salary drawn in sterling shall be drawn in London, or, at the government servant's option, in any British dominion
or colony which the Governor may by order prescribe for the purpose, provided that the government servant spends his
leave in the dominion or colony in which he has elected to draw his leave-salary; but if leave-salary due in respect of any
portion of leave out of Asia, and payable to the government servant in sterling remains undrawn for no fault on his part,
the Governor may authorize the undrawn amount to be paid in India at the exchange rate mentioned in the note under
rule 51.
Note - Payment of leave-salary in a colony shall be subject to such restrictions in the matters of Foreign Exchange as
the Government of India may from time to time impose.
(5)
Leave-salary shall be converted into sterling at the rate of exchange mentioned in the note under rule 51.
(6)
Any leave-salary drawn outside India shall be subject to deduction of Indian income-tax and super-tax at the rate which
would have been applicable if that leave-salary had been drawn in India.
Orders of the Governor regarding Rule 91
1. Leave-salary may be drawn in sterling in the following British Dominion and Colonies:
Dominion or colony
Designation of paying officers
Europe
Gibraltar
...
Command Paymaster, Army Pay Office, Gibraltar.
Malta
...
Command Paymaster, Army Pay Office, Malta.
America and West Indies
Canada
...
An officer residing in Canada or New Foundland takes payment
from the Home Treasury, remittance being effected under
arrangements made by the India Office through the Bank of
Montreal.
Bahamas
...
Receiver General, Nassa.
Barbados
...
Colonial Treasurer, Barbados.
Bermuda
...
Command Paymaster, Army Pay Office, Bermuda.
British Guiana
...
Colonial Secretary, Georgetown.
British Honduras
Page 75/98
----- PAGE 76 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
...
Treasurer, Pelize.
Jamaica
...
Command Paymaster, Army Pay Office, Jamaica.
Falkland Islands
...
Treasurer, Stanley.
North Africa
Gambia
...
Treasurer, Bathurst.
Gold Coast
...
Treasurer, Accra.
Nigeria
...
Treasurer, Logas.
Sierra Leone
...
Command Paymaster, Army Pay Office, Sierra Leone.
Egypt
...
Command Paymaster, Army Pay Office Cairo.
Somaliland
...
Treasurer, Somaliland Protectorate, Berbera.
Northern Rhodesia
...
Treasurer, Livingstone.
Africa other than North Africa
Union of South Africa
...
Secretary for Finance, The Treasury, Pretoria.
Kenya
...
Treasurer, Nairobi.
St. Helena
...
Colonial Treasurer, St. Helena.
Uganda
...
Treasurer, Entebbe.
Mauritius
...
Colonial Secretary, Port Louis.
Nyasaland
...
Treasurer, Nyasaland Protectorate, Zomba.
South Rhodesia
...
Page 76/98
----- PAGE 77 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
Treasurer, Salisbury.
Tanganyika
...
Treasurer, Dares-Salaam.
The Seyohelles Island
...
Treasurer, Seychelles Island.
Australasia
New South Wales
...
Accountant, Commonwealth Sub-treasury, Sydney.
Dominion or colony
...
Designation of paying officers
Queensland
...
Accountant, Commonwealth Sub-treasury, Brisbane.
South Australia
...
Accountant, Commonwealth Sub-treasury, Adelaide.
Tasmania
...
Accountant, Commonwealth Sub-treasury, Hobart.
Victoria
...
Secretary, Commonwealth Treasury, Melbourne.
Western Australia
...
Accountant, Commonwealth Sub-treasury, Perth.
Note - Leave-salary may also be drawn in sterling in Egypt while a British Army Pay Office is retained there.
2. Government servants spending their leave in Ceylon will draw their leave salaries from the Colonial Treasurer.
3. In the case of a government servant who is placed on deputation in interruption of leave out of India, the leave is
treated as one spell of leave and consequently the leave before and after the deputation should both be treated as
"initial period" for the purposes of proviso (a) to this rule and he should be allowed to draw, if he desires, leave-salary in
India for the portion of leave immediately following the deputation. In such cases the period of deputation should not be
taken into account in calculating the maximum period of four months prescribed in the above rule since deputation is
duty for all purposes.
92.
The rupee and sterling maxima and minima prescribed in rules 89 and 90 shall be applied to leave salaries paid
respectively in rupees and in sterling.
Audit instructions regarding rules 91 and 92
Under Fundamental Rule 91(2)(b) read with Fundamental Rule 92, a government servant who spend not more than one
month of his leave in Asia prior to embarkation to spend the balance elsewhere, is entitled to draw leave-salary in
respect of the entire period of his leave at the privileged rates and subject to the sterling minimum prescribed in
Fundamental Rule 90.
93.
A compensatory allowance should ordinarily be drawn only by a government servant actually on duty, but subject to
such conditions as the Governor may by rule prescribe, a government servant on leave may continue to draw a
compensatory allowance, or a portion thereof, in addition to leave-salary. One-of these conditions should be that the
whole or a considerable part of the expense to meet which the allowance was given continues during leave.
(For rules made by the Governor under rule 93, see Part III of this Volume, Chapter XII).
Page 77/98
----- PAGE 78 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
Audit instruction regarding Rule 93
When vacation is combined with leave, the entire period of vacation and the leave should be taken as one spell of leave
for the purpose of this rule.
Section VI - Exceptions and Special Concessions
94.
to 100.
[* * *]
100A.
[Deleted.]
101.
Subject to such conditions and in accordance with such principles as the Governor may by rule or order prescribe,
maternity leave may be granted to female government servants and leave on account of ill-health to members of such
subordinate services, as may be specified, whose duties expose them to special risk of accident or illness.
Maternity leave and leave on account of ill-health shall be not debited to the government servant's leave account.
(For rules made by the Governor under rule 101, see Part III of this Volume, Chapters XIII and XIV).
102.
[* * *]
103.
The leave which may be earned by-
(a)
temporary and officiating service;
(b)
service which is not continuous; and
(c)
part-time service, or service which is remunerated wholly or partly by the payment of honoraria or daily wages,
shall be such as the Governor may by rule or order prescribe.
Orders of the Governor regarding Rule 103
The service of a pensioner re-employed after having retired on superannuation or retiring pension should be regarded
as temporary for the purpose of rule 103, and leave may be granted to him in accordance with the rules framed under
rule 103(a).
(For rules made by the Governor under rule 103, see Part III of this Volume, Chapters XV and XVI).
Orders of the Governor prescribing the leave terms for government servants engaged on contract
1. These leave terms shall apply to-
(a)
government servants of Asiatic domicile engaged on contract on or after January 1, 1936, whether in India or abroad,
and
(b)
government servants of non-Asiatic domicile engaged on contract on or after the date mentioned above, but not
specially recruited overseas for service under the Government.
Notes - (1) Government servants of non-Asiatic domicile engaged on contract who may be specially recruited overseas
on or after January 1, 1936 shall be subject to such leave terms as may be prescribed by the Governor in each case.
(2)
Government servants of Asiatic domicile engaged on contract before January 1, 1936, shall be entitled to leave under
Subsidiary Rule 157.
2. Where the contract is for one year or less, earned leave admissible will be at one-twenty-second of the period spent
on duty. Though ranking as earned leave, this may be granted only on medical certificate and if subsequently it
becomes necessary to grant the government servant further leave, after the earned leave has been exhausted, leave on
medical certificate may be granted to him subject to the condition that the total period of the two kinds of leave does not
exceed 1/11th of the period spent on duty.
If the government servant serves in a vacation department, earned leave will not be admissible but he may be granted,
absolutely necessary leave on medical certificate to the extent of 1/22nd of the period spent on duty.
Page 78/98
----- PAGE 79 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
3. Where the contract is for more than one year but not more than five years, leave on medical certificate may be
allowed in addition to earned leave in accordance with the provisions of Subsidiary Rule 157-A subject to a maximum of
four months in all during the period of contract. In addition, extraordinary leave may be granted in special circumstances
when no other leave is admissible subject to a total maximum limit of three months in respect of such leave.
If the government servant serves in a vacation department, earned leave will not be admissible.
4. Where the contract is for a longer term than five years or an original contract for five years or less is extended so as to
make the total period of contract longer than five years, leave admissible to a permanent government servant under rule
81-B may be allowed subject to the restrictions that no leave on private affairs will be granted and that the leave on
medical certificate will be limited to six months in all. In the case of extension of contract to a period longer than five
years the government servants will be credited with the earned leave that would have been admissible had the contract
been initially one of more than five years diminished by any earned leave already taken and leave on medical certificate
if any already taken will count against the six months' limit prescribed above.
5. Where the contract is for an indefinite period, or an original contract for a definite period, is extended for an indefinite
period, the leave terms for permanent government servants laid down in rule 81-B will be made applicable but the
provisions of rule 87-A will not apply to them. In the latter case, i.e. when an original contract for a definite period is
extended for an indefinite period, the government servant will be credited with the earned leave that would have been
admissible had the contract been initially one for an indefinite period diminished by any earned leave already taken and
leave on medical certificate, if any already taken, will count against the limit prescribed, in a clause 2(b) of rule 81-B.
6. In the case of government servants falling under paragraph 3 above, earned leave may be granted after the expiry of
the contract only when it has been applied for during the period of the contract and refused owing to the exigencies of
the public service. A government servant whose services are dispensed with on grounds of ill-health may be permitted
to take all earned leave due to him before his service is terminated.
7. The leave salary during leave taken under the above paragraphs will be regulated as follows:
(i)
A government servant on earned leave will be entitled to leave-salary equal to his average pay.
(ii)
A government servant on leave on private affairs or on medical certificate will be entitled to leave-salary equal to half his
average pay subject in either case to a maximum of Rs. 750.
Note - Average pay means the average monthly pay earned during the twelve complete months preceding the month in
which the event occurs which necessitates the calculation of average pay.
(iii)
A government servant on extraordinary leave will not be entitled to any leave-salary.
8. A government servant initially engaged on contract will become subject to the leave terms prescribed in this chapter
for government servants recruited to service; or posts under the Government on or after January 1, 1936, in their
entirety on his being taken into permanent employment after the expiry of his contract. In such a case the government
servant will be credited with the earned leave that would have been admissible had his previous duty been duty as
government servant in permanent employ diminished by any earned leave already taken, and leave on medical
certificate, if any already taken will count against the limit prescribed in clause 2(b) of rule 81-B.
104.
During their period of probation or apprenticeship, probationers and apprentices are entitled to leave as follows:
(a)
if appointed under contract in the United Kingdom with a view to permanent service in India, or if appointed in the United
Kingdom to posts created temporarily with the prospect, more or less definite, of becoming permanent:
(i)
to such leave as is prescribed in their contracts, or, when no such prescription is made;
(ii)
(1) when the period of probation is not less than three years, to the same leave which would be admissible if they held
permanent posts; or
(2)
when the period of probation is less than three years, to leave on average pay up to one-eleventh of the period spent on
duty, to which may be added, on medical certificate, leave on half average pay; provided that the total leave granted
Page 79/98
----- PAGE 80 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
under this clause shall not exceed three months reckoned in terms of leave on average pay; and
(b)
If appointed otherwise, to such leave as is admissible under rules framed by the Governor on this behalf.
(For rules made by the Governor under rule 104, see Part III of this Volume, Chapter XVII).
Chapter XI
Joining Time
105.
Joining time may be granted to a government servant to enable him-
(a)
to join a new post to which he is appointed while on duty in his old post, or directly on relinquishing charge of that post;
or
(b)
to join a new post-
(i)
on return from leave on average pay of not more than four months' duration, or
(ii)
when he has not had sufficient notice of his appointment to the new post, on return from leave other than that specified
in sub-clause (i); or
(c)
to travel from the port of debarkation or, in the case of arrival by aircraft, from its first regular port in India, and organize
his domestic establishment when he returns from leave out of India of more than four months' duration; or
(d)
(i)
to proceed from a specified station to join a post in a place in a remote locality which is not easy of access;
(ii)
to proceed on relinquishing charge of a post in a place in a remote locality which is not easy of access to a specified
station.
Exception - In the case of government servants recruited on or after January 1, 1936, the term "leave on average pay of
not more than four months duration" in clause (b)(i) of this rule shall be taken to mean "earned leave not exceeding one
hundred and twenty days" and the term "four months" in clause (c) shall be taken to mean "90 or 60 days as the case
may be."
Audit instructions regarding Rule 105
1. If a government servant is authorised to make over charge of an office elsewhere than at its headquarters, any joining
time to which he may be entitled shall be reckoned from the place at which he actually makes over charge.
2. The intention of sub-clause (i) clause (b) of this rule is that joining time should be allowed to those government
servants who are granted privilege leave or leave on average pay for not more than four months, or those who are
granted privilege leave up to a maximum of six months under the special war concession, and who are transferred to a
new station on the termination of such leave.
3. If vacation is combined with leave, joining time should be regulated under clause (b)(i) of this rule if the total period of
vacation and leave on average pay with which vacation may be combined is of not more than four months' duration and
under clause (c) if otherwise.
4. In the case of a government servant who is appointed while on leave (whether spent in India or out of India) on
average pay of not more than four month's duration to a post other than that from which he took leave, the full joining
time calculated under Subsidiary Rule 174 in Part III is admissible, irrespective of the date on which the orders of
transfer were received by the government servant concerned. Should the government servant join his new appointment
before the expiry of such leave plus the joining time admissible, the period short taken should be considered as leave
not enjoyed and a corresponding portion of the leave sanctioned should be cancelled.
If, in any case, the government servant desires not to avail himself of the full joining time admissible, the periods of leave
and joining time should be adjusted with reference to such option.
5. Joining time under clause (c) of this rule is reckoned from the date of debarkation at an Indian port. Colombo is not
regarded as an Indian port for this purpose.
Page 80/98
----- PAGE 81 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
6. Joining time under Fundamental Rule 105(c) is admissible to government servant for organizing his domestic
establishment even if he does not make any journey from the port of debarkation.
7. The time reasonably required for the journeys between the place of training and the station to which a government
servant is posted immediately before and after the period of training should be treated as part of that period. This ruling
is not intended to apply to probationers holding 'training posts' which they may be considered as taking with them on
transfer. Such probationers are in entitled to joining time when transferred.
Orders of the Governor under Rule 105
1. A government servant of the Central or another State Government who is appointed to a post under the Uttar Pradesh
Government while on duty in his old post but who joins his new post after termination of his employment under the
Central or another State Government, as the case may be, by resignation or otherwise should be allowed no joining
time, or joining time pay, except when the employment of a particular servant is in the wider public interest.
2. In the ease of Government servants appointed under the Uttar Pradesh Government on the results of a competitive
examination which is open both to government servants and others or as a result of selection after interview-
(a)
joining time should ordinarily be permitted for all government servants serving under the Uttar Pradesh Government and
for government servants of the Central and other State Governments who hold permanent posts in a substantive
capacity, and
(b)
no joining time pay should be granted except when the government servant holds a permanent post under Government
(including the Central and other State Governments) in a substantive capacity.
Orders of the Governor regarding Rules 105(a)
1. Provincial Medical officers who attend a post-graduate course at the King George's Medical College, Lucknow, or any
other course of training are not entitled to full joining time for journeys either to join the post-graduate course or at its
end, but can, according to audit instruction no. 7 regarding this rule, be allowed only the period actually required for
journeys (without days for preparation) and that period should be treated as part of their training period. The Governor
has, however, decided that if an officer is posted at the end of his training to a station other than the one from which he
came to attend the training, he will be entitled to full joining time for joining that station.
2. Nurses who join the higher courses in nursing at the School of Nursing Administration, Delhi, are not entitled to full
joining time both when joining the course and at its end, but can, according to instruction no. 7 regarding this rule, be
allowed only the period actually required for journeys (without days for preparation) and that period should be treated as
part of their training period. If, however, a nurse, at the end of the training has to join duties at a station other than the
one from which she came to attend the training, she will be entitled to full joining time for joining that station.
106.
The joining time admissible in each of the cases mentioned in rule 105 shall be regulated by such rules as may be
prescribed by the Governor with due regard to the time required for actual transit and for the organization of domestic
establishment.
(For rules made by the Governor under rule 106, see Part III of this Volume, Chapter XVIII).
107.
A government servant on joining time shall be regarded as on duty and shall be entitled to be paid as follows:
(a)
If on joining time under clause (a) of rule 105, he is entitled to the pay which he would have drawn if he had not been
transferred or the pay Which he will draw on taking charge of his new post, whichever is less.
(b)
If on joining time under clause (b) or (c) of rule 105, he is entitled-
(i)
when returning from extraordinary leave, other than extraordinary leave not exceeding fourteen days granted in
continuation of other leave, to no payments at all;
(ii)
when returning from leave of any other kind, to the leave-salary which he last drew on leave at the rate prescribed for
the payment of leave-salary in India.
(c)
Page 81/98
----- PAGE 82 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
If on joining time under clause (d) of rule 105, he is entitled to pay as though he were on duty in his post.
Exception - A ministerial servant on transfer is not entitled to be paid while on joining time unless his transfer is made in
the public interests.
Orders of the Governor regarding Rule 107
(1)
Under a mutual arrangement between the Central Government and the various State Governments, the transit pay and
allowances, while he is joining and leaving the new service, of a government servant whose services are lent by one
Government to another are charged to the borrowing Government. In the case of a government servant in a joint cadre
serving two Governments his transit pay and allowances on transfer from one office to another are debited to the office
to which he is proceeding. (See rule 1, Appendix 3-B, Account Code-1940 edition).
(2)
In the case of government servants appointed under the Uttar Pradesh Government on the result of a competitive
examination which is open both to government servants and others or as a result of selection after interview no joining
time pay should be granted except when the government servant holds a permanent post under Government (including
the Central and other State Governments) in a substantive capacity.
(3)
No extra pay (where the transfer involves the grant of extra pay) can be drawn in any case by a relieving government
servant until the transfer is complete but as far as ordinary pay and allowances are concerned, an exception may be
made to the general rule in all cases in which the charge to be transferred whether a division, a sub-division or
other-charge consists of several scattered works which the relieving and the relieved government servants are required
by the orders of a superior officer to inspect together before the transfer can be completed. The relieving government
servant will be considered on duty if the period taken in carrying out these inspections is not considered by the
Superintending Engineer to be excessive.
(A)
While so taking over charge, the relieving government servant will draw-
(a)
if he is transferred from a post which he held substantively, his presumptive pay in that post, or,
(b)
if he is transferred from a post which he held in an officiating capacity, the officiating pay admissible in that post or the
pay he would draw after the transfer is complete, whichever is less.
(B)
The pay of a government servant, transferred to a post on return from leave, should during the period of taking over
charge be regulated as follows:
(a)
if he went on leave, while working in the post held by him substantively, the presumptive pay of that post; and,
(b)
if he went on leave while working in a post in an officiating capacity, the officiating pay of that post or the pay which will
be admissible to him in the new post, after taking over charge, whichever is less.
Note - The power vested in the Superintending Engineer has been delegated to all officers whether permanent or
officiating incharge of canal divisions in respect of lower subordinates and members of the subordinate engineering
service in the Irrigation Branch. In consequence of this delegation, charge certificate will in future be transmitted by the
divisional officer direct to the Accountant General.
(4)
In each case where the Head of the Department or the officer to whom the power is delegated, as the case may be,
decides to treat the period of taking over charge of a relieving officer as 'duty', a declaration as in the proforma given
below should be issued.
Declaration
I ................................, (name) .................................. (designation) declare that Sri ................................... (name and
designation of the officer to be relieved) and Sri ................................... (name of the relieving officer) .............................
(designation) were engaged in joint inspection of several scattered works and/ or stores during the period from ...............
to ................ in connection with handing over and taking over charge and I do not consider the above period as
Page 82/98
----- PAGE 83 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
excessive during which Sri. .................................. (name of the relieving officer) shall be treated as on duty.
Station.........................
Name.................................
Date...........................
Designation.........................
(5)
In the case of government servants of the Jail Department who have to take over charge of jail stores and stocks, the
relieving government servant will be allowed a period not exceeding three days in taking over the charge, provided the
period taken in taking over charge is not regarded by the Inspector General of Prisons to be excessive. The period so
spent shall be treated as spent on duty and the pay of the relieving government servant while, so taking over charge will
be regulated in accordance with para (3) above.
(6)
In the case of Store-keepers and Assistant Store keepers in the Hydro-Electric Grid, who have to take over charge of
stores and stocks, the relieving government servant will be treated as on duty until the transfer is completed, provided
that the period spent in taking over charge is not regarded by the Head of the Department concerned to be excessive,
and their pay will be regulated in accordance with para (3) above.
(7)
In the case of Reserve Inspectors and Public Prosecutors of the Police Department and Quartermasters of the
Provincial Armed Constabulary Battalions who have to take over the charge of stores and stocks, the relieving
government servant will be allowed, at the discretion of the Superintendent of Police or the Head of Office, as the case
may be, a period not exceeding three days for taking over the charge. This period will be treated as spent on duty and
the pay of the relieving government servant while so taking over charge will be regulated by para (3) above.
(8)
In the case of Treasury Officer who have to take over charge of cash, stamps, opium, etc., in a non-banking treasury the
relieving officer may be allowed, at the discretion of the District Officers, a period not exceeding seven days for taking
over charge. In the case of the Treasury Officers who have to take over charge of cash, stamps, opium, etc. in a
Banking Treasury, the relieving officer may be allowed, at the discretion of the District Officers, a period not exceeding
three days for taking over charge. In either case, the period taken in taking over charge shall be treated as spent on duty
and the pay of the relieving officer shall be regulated in accordance with para (3) above.
(9)
In the case of the Radio Maintenance Officers of the Uttar Pradesh Police Radio Section who have to take over charge
of stores the relieving officer may be allowed, at the discretion of the head of office, a period not exceeding three days
for taking over charge. The period so spent will be treated as on duty and the pay of the relieving officer will be regulated
in accordance with para (3) above.
Orders of the Governor regarding clause (a) of Rule 107
The words "if he had not been transferred" in this clause should be interpreted as if they read "if he had continued in the
old post".
Orders of the Governor regarding clause (c) of Rule 107
The words "in his post" occurring in this clause should be interpreted to mean "in his post in the remote locality" even in
the case of a government servant on straight transfer.
108.
A government servant who does not join his post within his joining time is entitled to no pay or leave-salary after the end
of the joining time. Wilful absence from duty after the expiry of joining time may be treated as misbehaviour for the
purpose of rule 15.
108A.
A person in employment other than Government service or on leave granted from such employment, if in the interests of
the Government he is appointed to a post under the Government may, at the discretion of the Government, be treated
as on joining time while he prepares for and makes the journey to join the post under the Government, and while he
prepares for and makes the journey on reversion from the post under the Government to return to his original
employment. During such joining time he shall receive pay equal to the pay, or in the case of joining time immediately
following leave granted from the private employment, to the leave-salary paid to him by his private employer, prior to his
Page 83/98
----- PAGE 84 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
appointment to government service, or pay equal to the pay of the post in government service, whichever is less.
Chapter XII
Foreign Service
109.
[* * *]
110.
(a)
No government servant may be transferred to foreign service against his will:
Provided that the provisions of this sub-rule shall not apply to the transfer of a government servant to the service of a
body, incorporated or not, which is wholly or substantially owned or controlled by the Government.
(b)
No government servant shall be transferred to foreign service out of India without the sanction of the Government.
(c)
Except to the extent the power of sanctioning transfer to foreign service in India may be delegated to authorities
subordinate to the Government, the transfer of a government servant to foreign service in India also requires the
sanction of the Government.
111.
A transfer to foreign service is not admissible unless-
(a)
the duties to be performed after the transfer are Such as should, for public reasons be rendered by a government
servant, and,
(b)
the government servant transferred holds at the time of transfer, a post paid from the revenues of the State, or holds a
lien on a permanent post, or would hold a lien on such a post had his lien not been suspended.
Orders of the Governor regarding Rule 111
1. The transfer of a temporary government servant to foreign service is permissible under this rule.
2. The principles of this rule should be applied most rigorously to a proposal to lend the services of a government
servant to a private undertaking. In general such a loan should be regarded as a very exceptional case requiring special
justification.
3. The condition in this rule that a transfer to a foreign service is not admissible unless the duties to be performed after
the transfer are such as should for public reasons be rendered by a government servant, means (a) that the duties must
be such that their proper discharge is in the public interest, and (b) that such discharge requires or can be best secured
by the deputation of a government servant. If the second condition is not fulfilled, there can be no public reasons which
require that the duties must be rendered by a government servant, since, if these duties can be performed equally well
by a person other than a government servant, public interests will not suffer if a transfer is not made. Where, for
example, the duties to be performed under a foreign employer, are of a clerical nature, the second of the above
conditions cannot possibly be fulfilled as competent clerks can easily be obtained in the open market. Nor is the second
condition fulfilled by the mere fact that a public body or institution has asked for the services of a government servant.
The public body or institution must also show that it cannot find a suitable employee except by obtaining the loan of a
government servant.
112.
If a government servant is transferred to foreign service while on leave, he ceases, from the date of such transfer, to be
on leave and to draw leave-salary.
Orders of the Governor regarding Rule 112
1. This rule does not apply to cases in which a government servant is permitted by the Government to accept foreign
service while on leave preparatory to retirement and it is decided by the Government that the employment should be
treated as private employment and that the government servant should not be placed on the usual foreign service terms.
2. (i) The concession of drawing leave-salary during leave preparatory to retirement in addition to pay from an Indian
State should not be granted to government servants retiring before reaching the age of superannuation, if they take such
leave after being offered, or having made arrangements for, employment in a State. In such cases they should be
required either to retire or go on foreign service terms.
Page 84/98
----- PAGE 85 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
(ii)
The concession of drawing leave-salary as well as pay from the Indian State is permissible when the leave is the leave
last taken before or after reaching the age of superannuation, except when the government servant is already in foreign
service when he applies for such leave.
(iii)
These orders, however, do not apply to a government servant who is already in foreign service when he applies for
leave preparatory to retirement. The concession of treating foreign service as private employment should not be allowed
to such a government servant. He should be treated as in foreign service so long as he continues on duty in the service
of the same employer.
(iv)
A government servant compelled under rule 56 (c) (3), to retire from active service after five year's tenure of his post
(unless re-appointed) and who takes leave preparatory to retirement after having been offered or having made
arrangements for employment in an Indian State may, even though he has not reached the age of superannuation,
draw, leave-salary in addition to pay from the State provided the leave is the last leave taken before the date of such
compulsory retirement.
113.
(i)
A government servant transferred to foreign service shall remain in the cadre or cadres in which he was included in a
substantive or officiating capacity immediately before his transfer, and may be given such substantive or officiating
promotion in those cadres as the authority competent to order promotion may decide. In giving promotion, such authority
shall take into account-
(a)
the nature of the work performed in foreign service, and
(b)
the promotion given to juniors in the cadre in which the question of promotion arises.
(ii)
Nothing in this rule shall prevent a member of a subordinate service from receiving such other promotion in government
service as the authority who would have been competent to grant the promotion had he remained in government service
may decide.
114.
A government servant in foreign service will draw pay from the foreign employer from the date on which he relinquishes
charge of his post in government service. Subject to any restrictions which the Governor may by general order impose,
the amount of his pay, the amount of joining time admissible to him and his pay during such joining time will be fixed by
the authority sanctioning the transfer in consultation with the foreign employer.
Orders of the Governor regarding Rule 114
The amount of remuneration to be granted to a government servant transferred to foreign service in India, including an
Indian State, will be regulated by the following orders:
1. When the transfer of a government servant to foreign service in India is sanctioned, the pay which he shall receive in
such service must be precisely specified in the order sanctioning the transfer. If it is intended that he shall receive any
remuneration, or enjoy any concession of pecuniary value in addition to his pay proper, the exact nature of such
remuneration or concession must be similarly specified. No government servant will be permitted to receive any
remuneration or enjoy any concession which is not so specified; and, if the order is silent as to any particular
remuneration or concession, it must be assumed that the intention is that it shall not be enjoyed.
2. No order of transfer to foreign service shall be issued by a department of the Government without previous
consultation with the Finance Department. It shall be open to that department to prescribe, by general or special order,
cases in which its consent may be presumed to have been given.
3. The following two general principles must be observed in sanctioning the conditions of transfers:
(a)
The terms granted to the government servant must not be such as to impose an unnecessarily heavy burden on the
foreign employer.
(b)
Page 85/98
----- PAGE 86 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
The terms granted must not be so greatly in excess of the remuneration which the government servant would receive in
government service as to render foreign service appreciably more attractive than government service.
4. Provided that the two principles laid down in paragraph 3 above are observed, the following concessions may be
granted by the foreign employer with the sanction of the Government. Such concessions must not be sanctioned as a
matter of course, but in those cases only in which their grant is in accordance with local custom and the wishes of the
foreign employer and is, in the opinion of the Government justified by the circumstances. The value of the concessions
must be taken into account in determining an appropriate rate of pay for the government servant in foreign service:
(a)
The payment of contributions towards leave-salary and pension under the ordinary rules regulating such contributions.
(b)
The grant of travelling allowance under the ordinary travelling allowance rules of the Government or under rules of the
foreign employer and of permanent travelling allowance, conveyance allowance and horse allowance.
(c)
The use of tents, boats and transport on tour, provided that this is accompanied by a corresponding reduction in the
amount of travelling allowances admissible.
(d)
The grant of free residential accommodation, which may be furnished, in cases in which the Government consider this to
be desirable, on such scale as may seem proper to the Government.
(c)
The use of motors, carriages and animals.
5. The grant of any concession not specified in paragraph 4 above requires the special sanction of the Government.
5A.
A government servant transferred to foreign service is eligible for sterling overseas pay under the rules or terms
applicable to him, and the grant of such pay should be settled in each case in consultation with the foreign employer. As
it is impossible to express any part of the pay in foreign service in sterling, any increase given on account of sterling
overseas pay with the consent of the foreign employer should be converted into rupees at the rate of exchange current
on the date the government servant is transferred to foreign service. In certain cases the pay of a government servant in
foreign service may be fixed as the pay he would receive from time to time in government service or the pay of a post in
government service with or without an addition thereto in the form of a percentage of such pay and/or of a fixed sum. In
such cases the foreign employer should be called on to pay the equivalent of sterling overseas pay according to the
terms of the arrangement, though even in such cases, his concurrence should be obtained. The sterling pay will then be
converted monthly to rupees at the current rate. There is, however, no objection to a foreign employer making his own
arrangements, if he so desires, to disburse the overseas pay in sterling and the employee agrees to it, but for purposes
of calculating contribution, the amount paid in sterling shall be converted to rupees at the "current rate of exchange."
Note - The expression "current rate of exchange" used above means the current rate as mentioned in the note below
rule 51.
6. When a government servant of non-Asiatic domicile who is entitled to passage concessions is transferred to foreign
service, the foreign employer is liable to pay a contribution to the Government at the rate of Rs. 30 per mensem on his
behalf. The contribution will be payable throughout the government servant's service under the foreign employer, i.e.
whether he is on duty or on leave.
6A. The pay and allowances of a government servant transferred to foreign service shall ordinarily be regulated as
follows by the authority competent to sanction the transfer who shall specify precisely the amount of pay and other
concessions to be granted. Any departure from these orders requires the previous sanction of the Government. When a
government servant in receipt of overseas pay is granted, on transfer to foreign service in India or on the occasion of
extension of the period thereof, an increase over his substantive pay in the regular line and the increase is expressed as
a percentage of substantive pay, the percentage should be applied only to the basic pay drawn by the government
servant in the regular line and not to his overseas pay, this decision applies equally to sterling and rupee overseas pay
and to government servants of Asiatic and non-Asiatic domicile.
7. The pay of a government servant transferred to a post the duties of which are similar to those of the post which he
held when transferred, should be fixed at a sum which does not exceed by more then 25 per cent, of his last substantive
pay in the service of the Government, or if he is officiating in a grade or post from which he is unlikely to revert, 25
Page 86/98
----- PAGE 87 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
percent of his last pay. The special pay, personal pay or other emoluments classed as 'pay' under Fundamental Rule
9(21) (iii) should not be taken into account in regulating foreign service pay without the sanction of the Governor.
8. A government servant transferred to an unusually responsible or difficult post or to one the duties of which differ from
those of his post under the Government, should receive pay specially fixed with reference to his status and pay in the
service of the Government and the nature of the work for which he is transferred. The special pay, personal pay or other
emoluments classed as 'pay' under Fundamental Rule 9(21)(iii) should not be taken into account in regulating foreign
service pay without the sanction of the Governor.
9. Increases of pay will be regulated as follows:
(a)
A government servant whose pay is fixed under paragraph 7 above and who belongs to a graded service or to a service
in which pay is regulated by a time-scale, may, on the occasion of each substantive promotion on his departmental list
or accrual of periodical increment, be granted an increase to that which such promotion or increment would have given
in government service plus a sum not exceeding 20 per cent thereon. If such a government servant would have
obtained, had he remained in the service of the Government, officiating promotion from which he would not have been
likely to revert, his foreign service pay may be raised, with the consent of the foreign employer, to the amount of
enhanced pay which he would have received in the service of the Government plus a sum not exceeding 20 per cent of
such pay.
(b)
In all other cases in which pay is fixed under paragraph 7 and in all cases in which it is fixed under paragraph 8, a
revision of pay involving an increase will be allowed only in the following circumstances:
(1)
If the pay is not on a time-scale basis, a revision of pay involving an increase shall not be allowed until a government
servant has been in foreign service for three years. After that period and subsequently at intervals of not less than three
years, an increase of not more than 20 percent of the pay existing at the time may be allowed, if the foreign employer
proposes it and if the authority who sanctioned the transfer, having regard to the nature of the government servant's
duties, considers that such an increase is justified.
(2)
If the pay is on an incremental or time-scale basis, no revision of the time-scale shall be allowed unless-
(i)
there is a change in the nature of the duties or responsibilities of the post in foreign service, or
(ii)
the maximum pay of the time-scale has been drawn for not less than three years.
10. The pay of deputy collectors, tahsildars, naib-tahsildars and kanungos who are transferred to foreign service for
employment under the Court of Wards shall be regulated as follows:
(a) Deputy collectors inclusive of probationary
deputy collectors and tahsildars, also naib-tahsildars, who are
not selected candidates and have not passed the departmental
examination.
{
Pay in the time-scale or grade pay which they
would draw from time to timeplusan addition of a fixed
percentage not exceeding 25 per cent, on that pay to be decided
in each case by the authority sanctioning the transfer.
Note - A Deputy Collector deputed to the Court of Wards Department for appointment as special manager of the
Balrampur Estate should be given an addition of 50 per cent on his pay as Deputy Collector.
(b) Naib-tahsildars who are both selected candidates and have
passed the departmental examination.
Pay on a special scale of Rs. 175-10-205.
(c) Kanungos
Grade payplusan additional pay of Rs. 30.
The above government servants may also be granted free residential accommodation on such scale as may seem
Page 87/98
----- PAGE 88 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
proper to the transferring authority, or a house rent allowance, not exceeding 10 per cent of their pay under the Court of
Wards in cases where the Court of Wards cannot provide for them suitable residential accommodation.
11. In the absence of specific mention to the contrary in the order sanctioning a transfer, the rate of pay to be drawn
during joining time will be the rate of pay admissible in foreign service.
12. When a police officer who is entitled to an allowance for the maintenance of a uniform, horse and saddlery is placed
on foreign service, the foreign employer is liable to pay a monthly contribution calculated, as explained in the example
given in the next sub-para on the basis of the rate of the allowance in force from time to time, for the entire period of
such service. The contribution will be payable also during periods of leave.
In case of State Police Officers on deputation to the Government of India or to another State Government, it has been
decided with the concurrence of the Government of India that the uniform, horse and saddlery allowance will be paid, on
becoming due, by the State Government in the first instance but a proportionate charge will be made from the borrowing
Government for the period the officer has served on deputation. For example, if the rate of uniform allowance for State
Police Service Officers, be Rs. 900 payable every ten years, recovery in their case will be made at the rate of Rs. 90 per
year or Rs. 7.50 paise per month in respect of uniform allowance. Such recoveries should be made from the borrowing
Government in a lump sum once in a year in the month of March. When an officer on reversion from service under the
borrowing Government proceeds on leave, recoveries should be made up to the date of his proceeding on leave and for
the period of his joining time, if admissible.
The above procedure will also be applied in respect of the officers belonging to the Indian police service whose services
are lent on deputation to the Government of India or to another State Government.
13. Specific terms in regard to travelling allowance to be allowed to government servants for journeys on transfer to
foreign service and on reversion therefrom, should invariably be prescribed by sanctioning authorities in consultation
and agreement with foreign employers.
115.
(a)
While a government servant is in foreign service contributions towards the cost of his pension must be paid to the
revenues of the State on his behalf.
(b)
If the foreign service is in India, contributions must be paid on account of the cost of leave-salary also.
(c)
Contributions due under clauses (a) and (b) above shall be paid by the government servant himself, unless the foreign
employer consents to pay them. They shall not be payable during leave taken while in foreign service.
(d)
By special arrangement made under rule 123(b) contributions on account of leave-salary may be required in the case of
foreign service out of India also, the contributions being paid by the foreign employer.
Note - Pensions, throughout this chapter, include contributions, if any, payable by the Government to a government
servant's credit in a provident fund.
Orders of the Governor regarding Rule 115
A government servant who is a subscriber to the Contributory Provident Fund (Uttar Pradesh) and who is transferred to
foreign service shall pay monthly subscriptions calculated on the rate of pay drawn in foreign service. The foreign
employer, or the government servant himself, according to the arrangement made under clause (c) of rule 115, shall
pay, in addition, for the period of active foreign service, at such times as the Government may prescribe in each case, a
contribution determined by the formula x + xy, where x equals the amount which would have been credited monthly to
the subscriber's account in the Provident Fund had he not proceeded on foreign service, the rate of pay drawn by him, in
foreign service being regarded as his "emoluments" for this purpose, and y equals for fraction which the amount
recoverable as leave-salary contribution bears to pay drawn in foreign service. This procedure takes effect from April 1,
1941, and the contribution shall, unless otherwise settled in any particular case, be recovered monthly alongwith the
subscription calculated on the rate of pay drawn in foreign service which the government servant has to pay as his own
share.
116.
The rate of contributions payable on account of pension and leave-salary shall be such as the Governor may by general
order prescribe.
Page 88/98
----- PAGE 89 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
Orders of the Governor regarding Rule 116
1. The following rates of contributions are leviable:
[Rates of monthly contribution for pensionary benefits payable during active foreign service in respect of -]
[These rates are effective from 1-11-1982 vide O.M. No. 2 G-1-2700/X-534 (10), dated 15-12-1982.]
Year of Service
Group 'A' Employees
Group 'B' Employees
Group 'C' Employees
Group 'D' Employees
1
2
3
4
5
0-1 Year
7% of the maximum monthly pay of the post in the
officiating/substantive grade, as the case may be.
6 % of the maximum monthly pay of the post in
the officiating/substantive grade, as the case may be.
5 % of the maximum monthly pay of the post in
the officiating/substantive grade, as the case may be.
4 % of the maximum monthly pay of the post in
the officiating/substantive grade, as the case may be.
1-2 year
7 % Ditto
6 % Ditto
6 % Ditto
4 % Ditto
2-3 year
8 % Ditto
7 % Ditto
6 % Ditto
5 % Ditto
3-4 year
8 % Ditto
7 % Ditto
7 % Ditto
5 % Ditto
4-5 year
9% Ditto
8% Ditto
7% Ditto
5% Ditto
5-6 year
10% Ditto
8% Ditto
7% Ditto
6% Ditto
6-7 year
10% Ditto
9% Ditto
Page 89/98
----- PAGE 90 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
8% Ditto
6% Ditto
7-8 year
11% Ditto
9% Ditto
8% Ditto
6% Ditto
8-9 year
11% Ditto
10% Ditto
9% Ditto
7% Ditto
9-10 year
12% Ditto
10% Ditto
9% Ditto
7% Ditto
10-11 year
12% Ditto
11% Ditto
10% Ditto
7% Ditto
11-12 year
13% Ditto
11% Ditto
10% Ditto
8% Ditto
12-13 year
14% Ditto
12% Ditto
10% Ditto
8% Ditto
13-14 year
14% Ditto
12% Ditto
11% Ditto
8% Ditto
14-15 year
15% Ditto
13% Ditto
11% Ditto
9% Ditto
15-16 year
15% Ditto
13% Ditto
12% Ditto
9% Ditto
16-17 year
16% Ditto
14% Ditto
12% Ditto
Page 90/98
----- PAGE 91 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
9% Ditto
17-18 year
16% Ditto
14% Ditto
13% Ditto
10% Ditto
18-19 year
17% Ditto
15% Ditto
13% Ditto
10% Ditto
19-20 year
17% Ditto
15% Ditto
13% Ditto
10% Ditto
20-21 year
18% Ditto
16% Ditto
14% Ditto
11% Ditto
21-22 year
19% Ditto
16% Ditto
14% Ditto
11% Ditto
22-23 year
19% Ditto
17% Ditto
15% Ditto
11% Ditto
23-24 year
20% Ditto
17% Ditto
15% Ditto
12% Ditto
24-25 year
20% Ditto
17% Ditto
16% Ditto
12% Ditto
25-26 year
21% Ditto
18% Ditto
16% Ditto
12% Ditto
26-27 year
21% Ditto
18% Ditto
16% Ditto
13% Ditto
Page 91/98
----- PAGE 92 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
27-28 year
22% Ditto
19% Ditto
17% Ditto
13% Ditto
28-29 year
23% Ditto
19% Ditto
17% Ditto
13% Ditto
29-30 year
23% Ditto
20% Ditto
18% Ditto
13% Ditto
Over 30 years
23% Ditto
20% Ditto
18% Ditto
14% Ditto
Rates of monthly contribution for leave-salary payable during active foreign service in respect of-
percentage of pay drawn in foreign service.
Members of Class I Provincial Services
...
15
Members of Class II Provincial and subordinate Services
...
12 ½
Note - (1) In the case of government servants recruited on or after January 1, 1936, the monthly contribution for
leave-salary payable during active foreign service shall be at the rate of 11 per cent of pay drawn in foreign service with
effect from June 1, 1939. This rate will be also be applicable to inferior government servants, whether recruited before or
after January 1, 1936.
Note - (2) The leave-salary contribution in the case of a Member of the Provincial Civil Service drawing pay in the senior
scale of the Indian Civil Service otherwise than as a permanent Magistrate and Collector shall be the same as for
members of Class 1 Provincial Services, viz., 15 per cent.
2. The term "length of service" mentioned in order no. (1) above, means the total period running from the date from
which service for pension commences or is likely to commence, including service counting for pension under Articles
370 and 371, Civil Service Regulations. In the case of government servants mentioned in Articles 403 and 404-A, Civil
Service Regulations, the period which they may be entitled to add under those Articles to their service qualifying for
superannuation pension, should be taken into account in reckoning "length of service" for determining the rates of
foreign service contribution on account of pension.
Note - In the case of temporary service, the term "length of service" mentioned in order no. 1 above, means the entire
continuous service of the government servant concerned, including temporary service in a pensionable post or in a
purely temporary establishment.
3. The term "active foreign service" used in the orders under this rule is intended to include the period of joining time
which may be allowed to a government servant both on the occasion of his proceeding to and reverting from foreign
service and accordingly contributions are leviable in respect of such periods.
Audit instructions regarding Rule 116
General principles regarding recovery of contributions for leave-salary and pensions
1. When a government servant is transferred to foreign service, or when the period of foreign service of a government
servant is extended, it should be stipulated that the contributions for pension and leave-salary or for pension alone, as
Page 92/98
----- PAGE 93 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
the case may be will be recoverable at the rates in force from time to time in accordance with orders issued by the
Governor under Fundamental Rule 116. Similarly, if the government servant is on a non-pensionable footing and
subscribing to a contributory provident fund, and if he is allowed to retain this privilege while in foreign service, the order
should specify the arrangement made with reference to the orders under rule 115 and state that it will be subject to
amendment consequent upon any revision of these orders.
2. The leave-salary contribution for the period of joining time taken by a government servant in continuation of leave
under clause (b) of Fundamental Rule 105, before reversion from foreign service should be calculated on the pay he
was getting immediately before he proceeded on leave.
117.
(a)
The rates of pension contribution prescribed under rule 116 will be designed to secure to the government servant the
pension that he would have earned by service under the Government if he had not been transferred to foreign service.
(b)
The rates of contribution for leave-salary will be designed to secure to the government servant leave-salary on the scale
and under the conditions applicable to him. In calculating the rate of leave-salary admissible, the pay drawn in foreign
service, less, in the case of government servants paying their own contributions, such part of pay as may be paid as
contribution, will count as pay for the purpose of rule 9(2.
Audit instructions regarding Rule 117
Non-superior government servants transferred to foreign service before September 5, 1928, who retire, either directly at
the end of their sanctioned term of foreign service or within three years of its conclusion are entitled, irrespective of the
rate of pension contribution prescribed for them to a pension calculated wholly or partly, as the case may be, on the pay
drawn by them in foreign service.
118.
[* * *]
119.
The Governor may-
(a)
remit the contributions due in any specified case or class of cases, and
(b)
prescribe, by general rule or order, the rate of interest, if any, to be levied on overdue contributions.
(For rules made by the Governor under rule 119, see Part III of this Volume, Chapter XIX).
Orders of the Governor regarding Rule 119(a)
In the following cases contributions on account of leave and pension have been remitted:-
(a)
Medical officers lent to charitable dispensaries or hospitals in the State.
(b)
Vaccinators, who were before November 27, 1906, enrolled as government servants, and are employed as assistant
superintendents of vaccination under district boards.
(c)
Vaccinators, who were before November 27, 1906, enrolled as government servants, and are employed in cantonments
or under municipalities and local boards.
(d)
Forest guards of the afforestation division when they are placed on foreign service to assist zamindars in the
improvement of their waste lands.
120.
A government servant in foreign service may not elect to withhold contributions and to forfeit the right to count as duty in
government service the time spent in foreign employ. The contribution paid on his behalf maintains his claim to pension,
or to pension and leave-salary, as the case may be, in accordance with the rules of the service of which he is a member.
Neither he nor the foreign employer has any right of property in a contribution paid, and no claim for refund shall be
entertained.
121.
Page 93/98
----- PAGE 94 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
A government servant transferred to foreign, service may not, without sanction of the Government, accept a pension or
gratuity from his foreign employer in respect of such service.
122.
A government servant in foreign service in India may not be granted leave otherwise than in accordance with the rules
applicable to him in government service, and may not take leave or receive leave-salary from the Government unless he
actually quits duty and goes on leave.
123.
(a)
A government servant in foreign service out of India may be granted leave by his employer on such conditions as the
employer may determine. In any individual case the authority sanctioning the transfer may determine beforehand, in
consultation with the employer, the conditions on which leave will be granted by the employer. The leave-salary in
respect of leave granted by the employer will be paid by the employer, and the leave will not be debited against the
government servant's leave account.
(b)
In special circumstances the authority sanctioning a transfer to foreign service out of India may make an arrangement
with the foreign employer, under which leave may be granted to the government servant in accordance with the rules
applicable to him as a government servant, if the foreign employer pays to the Government leave contribution at the rate
prescribed under rule 116.
Note - In reckoning a government servant's service for purposes of pension such leave will be subject to the restrictions
contained in Articles 407 and 408 of the Civil Service Regulations.
Audit instruction regarding Rule 123
1. For the purpose of the proviso to Fundamental Rule 87, the status of a government servant while on foreign service,
i.e., gazetted or non-gazetted, should be determined with reference to the permanent post under Government on which
he holds a lien or would hold a lien had his lien not been suspended or, if during his absence on foreign service he is
given any promotion under Fundamental Rule 113, with reference to the post under Government to which he is so
promoted.
2. In the case of such a government servant, the term 'his pay' occurring in item (i) of the proviso should be construed to
mean what is prescribed under Fundamental Rule 117(b) for counting his pay for the purpose of Fundamental Rule 9(2),
i.e., the pay drawn in foreign service at the time leave is taken less, in the case of a government servant paying his own
contribution for leave-salary and pension, such part of the pay as may be paid as contribution.
3. The expression "the pay he would draw in the permanent post held substantively by him at the time of taking leave"
occurring in the proviso should, in its application to a government servant on foreign service, be taken to mean the pay
which he would draw in the permanent post under Government on which he holds a lien, or would hold a lien had his
lien not been suspended, at the time of taking leave.
124.
A government servant in foreign service, if appointed to officiate in a post under the Government, shall draw pay
calculated on the pay of the post on which he holds a lien or would hold a lien had his lien not been suspended and that
of the post in which he officiates. His pay in foreign service will not be taken into account in fixing his pay.
Audit instructions regarding Rule 124
1. For the purpose of the proviso to Fundamental Rule 87 the status of a government servant while on foreign service,
i.e., gazetted or non-gazetted, should be determined with reference to the permanent post under Government on which
he holds a lien or would hold a lien had his lien not been suspended, or, if during his absence on foreign service he is
given any promotion under Fundamental Rule 113, with reference to the post under Government to which he is so
promoted.
2. In the case of such a government servant, the term "his pay" occurring in item (i) of the proviso should be construed to
mean what is prescribed under Fundamental Rule 117 (b) for counting his pay for the purpose of Fundamental Rule 9(2)
i.e., the pay drawn in foreign service at the time leave is taken less, in the case of a government servant paying his own
contribution for leave-salary and pension, such part of the pay as may be paid as contribution.
3. The expression "the pay he would draw in the permanent post held substantively by him at the time of taking leave"
occurring in the proviso should, in its application to a government servant on foreign service, be taken to mean the pay
which he would draw in the permanent post under Government on which he holds a lien, or would hold a lien had his
Page 94/98
----- PAGE 95 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
lien not been suspended, at the time of taking leave.
125.
A government servant reverts from foreign service to government service on the date on which he takes charge of his
post under the Government, provided that if he takes leave on the conclusion of foreign service before rejoining his post,
his reversion shall take effect from such date as the Government may decide.
Orders of the Governor regarding Rule 125
The date of reversion of a government servant who takes leave at the conclusion of foreign service before rejoining his
post in government service should be fixed after taking into account the joining time which he takes at the end of his
leave before actually taking charge of his post under Government. For example, if a government servant after foreign
service up to April 30, 1939, proceeds on leave on average pay for three months from May 1, 1939, and on expiry of the
leave, rejoins Government service on August 8, 1939 (forenoon), after taking seven days' joining time, then his date of
reversion should be fixed as May 8, 1939 (forenoon).
126.
When a government servant reverts from foreign service to government service his pay shall cease to be paid by the
foreign employer and his contributions shall be discontinued with effect from the date of reversion.
127.
When an addition is made to a regular establishment on the condition that its cost, or a definite portion of its cost, shall
be recovered from the persons for whose benefit the additional establishment is created, recoveries shall be made
under the following rules:
(a)
The amount to be recovered shall be the gross sanctioned cost of the service, or of the portion of the service, as the
case may be, and shall not vary with the actual expenditure of any month.
(b)
The cost of the service shall include contributions at such rates as may be laid down under rule 116 and the
contributions shall be calculated on the sanctioned rates of pay of the members of the establishment.
(c)
The Government may reduce the amount of recoveries or may entirely forego them.
Orders of the Governor regarding Rule 127
The following procedure should be adopted in applying to eases falling under rule 127 the rates of contributions for
pension and leave salary prescribed by the Governor under rule 116:
1. In the case of the provincial and the subordinate services, a fraction of the total maximum monthly pay all the
sanctioned posts equal to the average of the percentages prescribed in columns 2, 3, 4 and 5, as the case may be, of
the table, should be levied as contribution for pension. Recoveries on account of contribution for leave-salary should be
made by levying the percentage prescribed on the total sanctioned cost, or, in the case of time-scale of pay, on the
average cost of all the posts concerned.
2. Contributions for passages should be recovered at the rate of Rs. 30 per mensem in the case of government servants
entitled to passage concessions who form additions to regular establishment under rule 127.
Contribution for passages should be levied during the whole period of service in the additional post except that it should
not be charged during leave where-
(a)
the leave taken is leave preparatory to retirement; or
(b)
the government servant concerned will, on return from leave, be given different duties and not return to the additional
post; or
(c)
the substitute in the additional post, for the government servant on leave, is entitled to passage concessions and a
contribution for passage is recovered on his behalf.
Audit instruction regarding Rule 127
Principles for the calculation of contribution for leave-salary and pension-
The words "its cost" in line 2 of Fundamental Rule 127 refer to "an additional" in line 1 of that rule. The under lying
intention of the rule is to recover the cost of the additional establishment sanctioned. Contributions for leave-salary and
Page 95/98
----- PAGE 96 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
pension leviable under clause (b) of this rule should, therefore, be based on the rates of pay, old and/or revised, as the
case may be, on which the establishment is actually sanctioned, irrespective of whether the person employed on the
work for which it is sanctioned is an old or a new entrant.
Chapter XIII
Service Under Local Funds
128.
Government servants paid from local funds which are administered by the Government are subject to the provisions of
Chapters I to XI of these rules.
Audit instruction regarding Rule 128
1. Employees of local funds administered by Government who are not paid from general revenues and are therefore not
government servants are subject to the provisions of Chapters I to IX of the Fundamental Rules.
2. The expression "local funds which are administered by the government" means funds administered by bodies which
by law or rule having the force of law come under the control of the Government in regard to proceedings generally and
not merely in regard to specific matters, such as the sanctioning of the budget or sanction to the creation or filling up of
particular posts or the enactment of leave, pension or similar rules; in other words, it means funds over whose
expenditure the Government retains complete and direct control.
129.
The transfer of government servants to service under local funds which are not administered by the Government will be
regulated by the rules in Chapter XII.
130.
Persons transferred to services or posts under the Government from a local fund which is not administered by the
Government will be treated as joining a first post under the Government, and their previous service will not count as duty
performed. The Government may, however, allow previous service in such cases to count as duty performed on such
terms as it thinks fit.
The Schedule
[See order 2 under Rule 9(20)]
Rules made by the Governor to Regulate the Determination of Domicile
The domicile of a government servant shall, unless it be otherwise expressly provided in the rules regulating the
conditions of his service, be determined in accordance with the following provisions:
1. A person can have only one domicile.
Schedule
2. The domicile of origin of every person of legitimate birth is in the country in which, at the time of his birth, his father
was domiciled, or, if he is a posthumous child, in the country in which his father was domiciled at the time of the father's
death.
3. The domicile of origin of an illegitimate child is in the country in which, at the time of his birth, his mother was
domiciled.
4. The domicile of origin prevails until a new domicile has been acquired, and a new domicile continues until the former
domicile has been resumed or another has been acquired.
5.
(1)
A person acquires a new domicile by taking up his fixed habitation in a country which is not that of his domicile of origin.
(2)
Any person may, if the law of any country so provides, and subject to any such provisions, acquire a domicile in that
country by making, in accordance with the said provisions, a declaration of his desire to acquire such domicile.
Explanation 1 - A person is not to be considered as having taken up his fixed habitation in a country merely by reason of
his residing there in His Majesty's civil or military service or in the exercise of any profession or calling.
Explanation 2 - A person does not acquire a new domicile in any country merely by reason of residing as part of the
family or as a servant of any ambassador, consul, or other representative of the Government of another country.
6. The domicile of a minor follows the domicile of the parent from whom he derives his domicile of origin:
Provided that the domicile of a minor does not change with that of his parent if the minor is married or holds any office or
employment in the service of His Majesty or has set up with the consent of the parent in any distinct business.
Page 96/98
----- PAGE 97 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
7. After marriage a woman acquires the domicile of her husband if she had not the same domicile before and her
domicile during the marriage follows the domicile of her husband:
Provided that if the husband and wife are separated by the order of a competent court or if the husband is undergoing a
sentence of transportation, the wife becomes capable of acquiring an independent domicile.
8. Save as otherwise provided above, a person cannot during minority acquire a new domicile.
9. An insane person cannot acquire a new domicile in any other way than by his domicile following the domicile of
another person.
10. Notwithstanding anything herein contained, a person who-
(a)
was born and has been educated exclusively in Asia had not at the date with reference to which his domicile is to be
determined resided out of Asia for a total period exceeding six months, or
(b)
had before that date claimed and been deemed to be of Indian domicile for the purpose of his appointment to any office
under the Government or of the conferment upon him by the Government of any scholarship, emoluments, or other
privilege,
shall be deemed to have had his domicile in Asia on that date, unless in the case of a person to whom clause (a) applies
and clause (b) does not apply it is proved to the satisfaction of the appointing authority that he did not have his domicile
in Asia on that date.
11. If any question arises as to the domicile of any officer at the time of his appointment, the decision thereon of the
Governor shall be final.
Form of questionnaire to be used in determining the domicile
Question
Answers
1.
State your birth-place date of birth and place
or places, where you were educated.
2.
State paternal grandfather's birth-place.
3.
Where was your grandfather residing when your
father attained his majority? If in Asia, state whether your
grandfather had at that time taken up a fixed habitation in Asia
or was resident there only in the exercise of a profession or
calling.
4.
Where was your father educated and where was he
residing (a) at your birth, and (b) when you attained your
majority? If in Asia, state whether he had at those times taken
up a fixed habitation in Asia or was resident there only in the
exercise of a profession or calling.
5.
Did your father during your minority spend any
periods of leave outside Asia, purchase property outside Asia, or
show in any other way an intention of making his fixed habitation
outside Asia? Give full particulars.
6.
If your father retired from Government or other
service or profession in Asia when you were a minor, did he
continue to reside in Asia afterwards? How old were you at the
date of his retirement?
7.
Page 97/98
----- PAGE 98 -----
The U.P. Fundamental Rules
Give full particulars of any periods spent by
you out of Asia prior to your appointment to a service or post
under the Government in India.
8.
In what ways did you show an intention of taking
up a fixed habitation outside Asia prior to your appointment to a
service or post under the Government in India?
9.
Have you ever claimed and been deemed to be a
native of India for the purpose of your appointment to any office
under the Government in India or for the conferment upon you by
Government of any scholarship, emoluments or other privilege?
[These amended sub-rules (a) & (b) are effective from April 1, 1975.]
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 98/98