
----- PAGE 1 -----
The U.P. Aerial Ropeways Rules, 1931
The U.P. Aerial Ropeways Rules, 1931
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/157984478/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Uttar Pradesh - Act
The U.P. Aerial Ropeways Rules, 1931
UTTAR PRADESH
India
The U.P. Aerial Ropeways Rules, 1931
Rule THE-U-P-AERIAL-ROPEWAYS-RULES-1931 of 1931
Published on 1 January 1931
Commenced on 1 January 1931
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 1931.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The U.P. Aerial Ropeways Rules, 1931
Published vide Notification No. 499-R.C. 166-1930, dated June 19, 1931. Published in U.P. Gazette, dated June 27,
1931. Pt. I, pp. 672-674
014.
In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 30 of the U.P. Aerial Ropeways Act, 1922 (1 of 1922), the Government of
the U.P. are pleased to make the following rules for the survey, construction, maintenance and working of aerial
ropeways in the U.P. :
Survey, Constructions, Maintenance and Working
1.
Intending promoters of an aerial ropeway shall submit the following maps, drawings, detailed information, specifications
and estimates when required to do so under Section 5 of the Act: -
Page 1/5
----- PAGE 2 -----
The U.P. Aerial Ropeways Rules, 1931
(a)
A map of the alignment on a scale of 1 in 1,000 showing in red the proposed alignment and details within 50 feet on
either side of the alignment, specifically showing all overhead cables, roads, dwelling houses, canals, public
embankments and other structures. The areas proposed to be acquired shall also be shown on the map.
(b)
A profile of the ground plotted to be a natural scale of 1 in 1,000 showing loading, unloading, tension, angle, section and
power stations position and height of the trestles with the sag of the loading rope and the clearance, in figures, of any
permanent object proposed to be the ropeway and the position of protection bridges.
(c)
A skeleton drawing of stations and a drawing of a typical trestle, showing buckets and rope supports to a scale of not
less than 1 in 100, dimensioned drawings of the buckets or carriers from the point of their suspension in the box head,
and their cubic capacity. When construction has been decided upon, the complete dimensioned working plans shall be
placed before Government for final approval.
(d)
A statement showing:
(1)
the type of ropeway,
(2)
whether the load will be carried one way or both ways,
(3)
length of the ropeway with the length of each section if not in one length,
(4)
difference of altitude of terminals and whether such difference is for or against the loads to be carried for each section,
(5)
vertical height between the rope and protection bridges at road and railway crossings,
(6)
average or maximum vertical height of the rope above inhabited areas,
(7)
statement showing inhabited areas crossed and method of affording protection from falling buckets or contents thereof,
(8)
material to be carried,
(9)
quantity per hours,
(10)
individual bucket loads,
(11)
weight of bucket and box head,
(12)
cubic capacity of buckets,
(13)
speed of rope,
(14)
driving pull at rope,
(15)
size of rope or ropes,
(16)
construction of rope,
(17)
actual breaking stength of rope or ropes,
(18)
greatest tension on line,
Page 2/5
----- PAGE 3 -----
The U.P. Aerial Ropeways Rules, 1931
(19)
lowest factor of safety for the rope, .
(20)
size of tension ropes,
(21)
actual breaking strength of tension rope,
(22)
tension in tension rope,
(23)
gauge of line,
(24)
diameter of turn-back sheaves,
(25)
clearance between buckets and trestles,
(26)
maximum desinged stress in structures and condition governing same,
(27)
ultimate resistance of steel employed,
(28)
maximum stress in main shafts,
(29)
unit pressure in main shaft bearings,
(30)
wind pressure on ropes and buckets and on structures,
(31)
weight of foundations for main anchorages with calculations and sketch giving the over-turning and resisting moment of
the foundations, and
(32)
diameter and maximum unit pressure on trestle sheaves, or in the case of a bi-cable ropeway, on the supporting
saddles.
(e)
An accurate estimate of the cost of construction and statements of estimated working expenses and profits and of
maximum and minimum rates which it is proposed to charge.
(f)
Dimensioned drawings in triplicate of all protection bridges, with stress diagrams and calculations taking impact of falling
buckets into accounts.
2.
The minimum clearance of a ropeway from the ground except within station limits shall be 12 feet, and the clearance
over navigable rivers, canals and railways will be determined in each case in consultation with the authorities in charge
of such rivers, canals and railways.
3.
The clearance over public roads having a width of not less than 10 feet shall not be less than 16 feet.
4.
No ropeway shall be constructed unless every part excepting the anchorages of foundations has a factor of safety of at
least 4 under the maximum conditions. For foundation anchorages it shall be sufficient if the moment of resistence of the
foundation exceeds the overturning moments by 50 per cent. The factor of safety of 4 shall be obtained in the case of
the rope by dividing the actual breaking load of the rope by the maximum direct tension to which it will be subjected.
5.
Station gear, trestle sheaves and wire ropes shall be so designed and placed that lubrication can be performed safely
whilst the ropeway is in motion.
6.
Page 3/5
----- PAGE 4 -----
The U.P. Aerial Ropeways Rules, 1931
All carriers shall be provided with appliances which will prevent them from discharging their contents, except at points
where they are intended to discharge them.
7.
The promoter shall instal a method of signalling which will enable the ropeway to be stopped from any station.
Return
8.
Returns prescribed under Section 27 of the Act shall be made up to the thirty-first day of December or the thirty-first day
of March, at the option of the promoter or to such other date as the local Government may approve, and shall be
submitted within a period of six months from each date as aforesaid of such extended period as the local Government
may authorize on being satisfied that the time allowed is insufficient owing to any cause not within the control of the
promoter.
Notice
9.
Notices under the Act shall be served by registered post.
Bye-Laws
10.
One month before any bye-law made by the promoter under Section 26 of the Acts is confirmed by the local
Government and published in the Gazette, notice of the making of the same and a copy of such bye-law shall be
published by advertisement once at least in each of two successive weeks in some one and the same newspaper
published in the district in which the ropeway operates; or if there be no such newspaper then in some one and the
same newspaper published in the province. The advertisement shall also be inserted in the Government Gazette.
Duties of Inspector
11.
The inspector appointed under Section 11 of the Act shall be the technical adviser to the local Government, and his duty
shall be to make a general inspection of the ropeways at least once a year, to make such other inspections as may from
time to time be necessary and to advise Government regarding works of public safety and convenience and the general
working of the ropeways and such other matters as may be referred to him.
Accidents .
12.
The following shall be deemed to be an accident within the meaning of Section 21 of the Act:
(1)
derailment of a carrier beyond the station limits, which include the distance between the station and the first trestle on
either side of a station;
(2)
displacement of carrier ropes from the trestle sheaves or saddle;
(3)
damage to trestle;
(4)
a carrier striking a trestle or other permanent object; and
(5)
accident tippling of buckets along the line.
13.
Notice of such accidents shall be sent by letter to the local Government and to the inspector, and shall contain the
following particulars, namely:
(a)
mileage, or station, or both, at which the accident occurred;
(b)
time and date of the accident;
(c)
nature of the accident;
(d)
Page 4/5
----- PAGE 5 -----
The U.P. Aerial Ropeways Rules, 1931
number of people killed or injured as far as is known; ,
(e)
cause of the accident, as far as is known;
(f)
probable detention to traffic.
14.
When any accident attended with loss of human life or with grievous hurt, as defined in the Indian Penal Code or with
serious injury to property, occurs on the ropeway, the promoters servants nearest to the place at which the accident
occurred shall give notice of the accident by telegram to the local Government or the Inspector, the District Magistrate,
and the Superintendent of Police of the District in which the accident occurred, to the officer in charge of the police
station within the local limits of which it has occurred, and to the nearest dispensary. It shall be the duty of the promoters'
servants to afford medical aid to the sufferer and to see that they are properly handled and carefully attended to till they
are removed to their houses or handed over to the care of their relatives or friends.
15.
Accidents of the nature described in Section 21 of the Act shall be jointly inquired into by a committee consisting of the
promoter's servants, the Inspector, a Magistrate, and police officer, and a report shall be submitted to Government by
such committee. When an inquiry is being made the promoter shall produce before the. committee all his servants
whose evidence is likely to be required. Whenever the report of the committee or of the Inspector points to the necessity
for or sugests a change in the action which has been taken, or which it is proposed to take to prevent the recurrence of
similar accidents.
Duties of Magistrates
16.
Whenever an accident of the nature described in Section 21 of the Act his occurred in the course of working of an aerial
ropeway the District Magistrate, or any other Magistrate who may be appointed in this behalf by the local Government,
may direct an investigation into the causes which led to the accident to be made by subordinate Magistrate or by the
Police. When it is decided to make an inquiry the Magistrate or Police officer so deputed shall proceed to the scene of
the accident and conduct the inquiry. The Magistrate or Police officer may summon any of the promoter's servants and
any other person whose presence he may think necessary and, after taking the evidence and completing the inquiry,
shall forward a copy of the report to the promoter and to the local Government.
Duties of Police Officer
17.
A police officer may make an investigation into the causes which led to any accident occurring in the course of the
working of an aerial ropeway as contemplated in section 21 of the Act, provided no such investigation is made when an
inquiry has been commenced or ordered by the Magistrate.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 5/5