
----- PAGE 1 -----
The U.P. Subordinate Forest (Rangers, Deputy Rangers and Foresters) Service Rules, 1951
The U.P. Subordinate Forest (Rangers, Deputy Rangers and
Foresters) Service Rules, 1951
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/14660119/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Uttar Pradesh - Act
The U.P. Subordinate Forest (Rangers, Deputy Rangers and Foresters) Service Rules, 1951
UTTAR PRADESH
India
The U.P. Subordinate Forest (Rangers, Deputy Rangers and Foresters) Service Rules, 1951
Rule THE-U-P-SUBORDINATE-FOREST-RANGERS-DEPUTY-RANGERS-AND-FORESTERS-SERVICE-RULES-1951
of 1951
Published on 17 April 1951
Commenced on 17 April 1951
[This is the version of this document from 17 April 1951.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The U.P. Subordinate Forest (Rangers, Deputy Rangers and Foresters) Service Rules, 1951
Published vide Notification No. 434/14-194-26, dated 17th April, 1951
In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution of India, and in supersession of all
existing rules and orders in this regard the Governor of Uttar Pradesh makes the following rules regulating recruitment to
and conditions of service of persons appointed to the posts of Rangers, Deputy Rangers and Foresters in the
Subordinate Forest Service.
Part I ? General
1.
Page 1/10
----- PAGE 2 -----
The U.P. Subordinate Forest (Rangers, Deputy Rangers and Foresters) Service Rules, 1951
Short title.
- These rules may be called the U.P. Subordinate Forest (Rangers, Deputy Rangers and Foresters) Service Rules,
1951, and shall take effect from the date of the notification.
2.
Status.
- Rangers, Deputy Ranger and Foresters and members of the Subordinate Forest Service.
3.
Definitions.
- In these rules unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context,-
(a)
"Constitution" means the Constitution of India;
(b)
"College" means the Indian Forest Rangers College, Dehra Dun;
(c)
"Commission" means the Uttar Pradesh Public Service Commission;
(d)
"Governor" means the Governor of Uttar Pradesh;
(e)
"Government" means the Government of Uttar Pradesh;
(f)
"Member of the Service" means a servant of the State of Uttar Pradesh appointed in a substantive capacity under the
provisions of these rules or of orders in force previous to the introduction of these rules, to a post in the cadre of the
service;
(g)
"Service" means the Subordinate Forest (Rangers, Deputy Rangers and Foresters) Service.
Part II ? Cadre
4.
Cadre.
- The sanctioned strength of the cadre of the service is as follows :
Forest Rangers
..
..
110
Deputy Rangers
..
..
107
Foresters
..
..
16
Provided that the Governor may-
(i)
leave unfilled or hold in abeyance any vacant post or posts without thereby entitling any members of the service to
compensation; and
(ii)
create additional, permanent or temporary posts from time to time as may be found necessary :
Provided further that subordinate authorities may also create temporary posts to the extent of powers delegated to them
in this behalf.
Part III ? Recruitment
5.
Page 2/10
----- PAGE 3 -----
The U.P. Subordinate Forest (Rangers, Deputy Rangers and Foresters) Service Rules, 1951
Source of Recruitment.
- Recruitment to the service shall be made from the following sources :
(a)
Forest Rangers.-
(1)
By promotion of Deputy Rangers holding High School Examination Certificate (or equivalent qualification) and
considered fit to hold charge of an important range. Not more than fifty per cent of the total number of posts of Forest
Rangers may be filled by promotion.
(2)
By direct appointment of candidates who have been selected through the Commission in the manner prescribed in
Appendix A to these rules for undergoing a course of instruction in the college and who have obtained the higher
standard certificate after two years' training therein.
(b)
Deputy Rangers.-
(1)
By promotion of Foresters holding High School Examination Certificate (or equivalent qualification) and considered fit to
hold charge of small range.
Note. - Recruitment to the post of Deputy Rangers will be made entirely by promotion except to the extent to which
candidates may be appointed under clause (2) of this rule.
(2)
By direct appointment from amongst candidates who hold a lower standard certificate of the college.
(c)
Foresters.-
(1)
By promotion of-
(i)
forest guards and other subordinates of long and meritorious service, and holding the Hindustani Middle Examination
certificates;
(ii)
younger forest guards and other subordinates holding High School Examination Certificate (or equivalent qualification).
Note. - Not more than fifty per cent of the total number of posts of Foresters may be filled by promotion.
(2)
By direct appointment of candidates who hold the High School Examination Certificate (or equivalent qualification).
Note. - Procedure regarding training of subordinates at the State Forest Training Class given in the Forest Manual.
Part IV ? Qualification
6.
Nationality, Domicile and Residence.
- The nationality, domicile and residence qualification shall be in accordance with the rules in force at the time of
recruitment (A copy of the rules in force at time of promulgation of these rules will be found in Appendix B.)
7.
Age.
(1)
No person shall be recruited to the service under the provisions of Rule 5 (a) (2) unless he has attained the age of 19
years and has not attained the age of 21 years on August 31 of the year in which selection is made for admission to the
Ranger's Course at the college.
(2)
The age of a candidate recruited to the service under Rule 5 (b) (2) shall be not less than 21 and not more than 23 years
and under Rule 5 (c) (2) not more than 23 years on January 1 of the year in which the recruitment is made :
Provided that exemption from maximum age limit may be granted by the Government in special cases where it is
considered necessary in public interest or in the interest of fair dealing.
(3)
Page 3/10
----- PAGE 4 -----
The U.P. Subordinate Forest (Rangers, Deputy Rangers and Foresters) Service Rules, 1951
No person shall be appointed to the service under the provisions of Rule 5 (b) (1) if he exceeds the age of 50 years and
under Rule 5 (c) (1) if he exceeds the age of 40 years on January 1 of the year in which recruitment is made.
8.
Academic qualifications.
- No person shall be appointed to the service under the provisions of Rules 5 (a) (2) and 5 (b) (2) unless he has passed
the Intermediate Examination held by the Board of High School and Intermediate Education, Uttar Pradesh, or an
examination recognized by Government as equivalent hereto, with one or more of the following subjects :
Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry, Botany and Zoology.
Part V ? Procedure
9.
Number to be recruited from each source.
- The number of vacancies to be filled from each source mentioned in Rule 5 shall be determined by the Chief
Conservator of Forests in the case of Rangers and by the Conservator of Forests in the case of Deputy Rangers and
Foresters.
10.
Appointments by promotion under the provisions of Rules 5 (a) (1), 5 (b) (1), 5 (c) (1) (i) and (ii) shall be by seniority
subject to the rejection of the unfit.
Part VI ? Appointment, Probation, Confirmation
11.
Appointment to the posts of Forest Rangers shall be made.
(1)
(a)
in the case of candidates recruited under Rule 5 (a) (1) in order in which such candidates are placed by the
Commission;
(b)
in the case of candidates recruited under Rule 5 (a) (2) according to the aggregate of marks obtained at the second year
examination at the college.
(2)
Appointment to the posts of Deputy Rangers and Foresters under Rules (5) (b) (1) and 5 (c) (1) (i) and ii) shall be made
in the order of preference determined at the time of selection.
12.
Appointing authority.
(1)
The Conservator of Forests of Circle in which the vacancy occurs shall be the appointing authority in the case of Deputy
Rangers and Foresters and the Chief Conservator of Forests shall be the appointing authority in the case of Rangers.
(2)
Appointment shall be made to posts in the service on the occurrence of substantive vacancies by taking candidates
alternately from the list of those who have been promoted and the list of those directly recruited so far as this may be
possible. Candidates shall be taken in the order in which they stand in the list and first candidate shall be the top-most
candidate on the list of those selected by promotion.
13.
Representation of Scheduled Castes, etc.
- Consistently with the maintenance of efficiency of administration-
(i)
the interest of the backward classes shall in general be borne in mind in making appointments; and
(ii)
there shall be a general reservation of 10 per cent of the vacancies for members of the scheduled castes in making
appointments to the service :
Provided that if in any one year candidates of the scheduled castes fail to be recruited to service to the extent of 10 per
cent the deficiency shall be made good in the recruitment to the service in the following year :
Provided further that the reservation on account of the deficiency shall not be carried forward for more than one year.
Page 4/10
----- PAGE 5 -----
The U.P. Subordinate Forest (Rangers, Deputy Rangers and Foresters) Service Rules, 1951
14.
Canvassing.
- No recommendation either written or oral than that required under the rules will be taken into consideration. Any
attempt on the part of a candidate to enlist support directly or indirectly for his candidature by other means shall
disqualify him for appointment.
15.
Character.
- The character of a candidate for direct appointment must be such as to render him suitable in all respects for
employment in the service or post to which he is to be appointed. It would be the duty of the appointing authority to
satisfy itself on this point.
Note. - (a) A conviction need not of itself involve the refusal of a certificate of good character. The circumstances of the
conviction should be taken into account and if they involve no moral turpitude or association with crimes of violence or
with a movement which has as its object the overthrow by violent means of Government as by law established in Union
of India the mere conviction need not be regarded as a disqualification.
(b)
While no person should be considered unfit for appointment solely because of his political opinions, care should be
taken not to employ persons who are likely to be disloyal and to abuse the confidence placed in them by virtue of their
appointment. Ordinarily, persons who are actively engaged in subversive activities including members of any
organization the avowed object of which is to change the existing order of society by violent means, should be
considered unfit for appointment under Government. Participation in such activities at any time after attaining the age of
21 years and within three years of the date of enquiry, should be considered as evidence that the person is still actively
engaged in such activities, unless in the interval there is positive evidence of a change of attitude.
(c)
Persons dismissed by the Government of India or by State Government will also be deemed to be unfit for appointment
to the service.
A candidate must produce certificate of good character from the principal, academic officer of the university or
college/headmaster of the school in which he was last educated and from two responsible persons of status (not
relative) who were well acquainted with him in private life and are unconnected with this university, college or school.
16.
Physical Fitness.
- No person shall be appointed as a member of the service unless he possesses a sound health and is mentally fit and
is free from any physical defect likely to interfere with the efficient discharge of his duties as a member of the service.
Before a candidate is selected for admission to the college under Rule 5 (a) (2) or is appointed to the service under Rule
5 (b) (2) or 5 (c) (2), he must produce a medical certificate of health according to the rules and in the form prescribed by
Government.
17.
Probation.
(1)
All appointments to the service in or against substantive vacancies shall be made on probation. The period of probation
in each case shall be one year :
Provided that the appointing authority may extend the period of probation in special cases up to a specified date.
(2)
If during or at the end of the period of probation it is found that a probationer has not made sufficient use of his
opportunities or has failed to satisfy the standard of work or intelligence or aptitude expected of him, he shall be reverted
to his substantive post, if he has one, or his services will be dispensed with if he has not substantive post and he will be
informed accordingly on month before reversion or discharge, as the case may be.
(3)
A probationer whose services are dispensed with during or at the end of period of probation or extended period of
probation, shall not be entitled to any compensation.
18.
Confirmation.
Page 5/10
----- PAGE 6 -----
The U.P. Subordinate Forest (Rangers, Deputy Rangers and Foresters) Service Rules, 1951
- A probationer shall be confirmed in his appointment when-
(a)
he has completed the prescribed period of probation; and
(b)
the appointing authority is satisfied that he is fit for confirmation.
19.
Pay.
- The scales of [pay]
[Scale of pay will be applicable subject to revised scale of pay issued from time to time by the Government.]
admissible to persons appointed to a post in the cadre of the service, whether in a substantive or in an officiating
capacity or as a temporary measure shall be as follows :
(i)
Forest Rangers - Rs. 120-8-200-E.B.-10-300.
(ii)
Deputy Rangers - Rs. 75-5-120.
(iii)
Foresters - Rs. 60-3-90-4-110.
20.
Pay during probation.
(1)
A person on probation, if he is not already in the service of the State, shall draw during the period of probation the
minimum of the scales of pay admissible to him under Rule 19, provided that a Deputy Ranger recruited under Rule 5
(b) (2) shall draw pay at the rate of Rs. 85 per mensem in the time-scale, during the first year and increments as they
accrue, but if the period of probation is extended for failure to give satisfaction the extended period shall not count for
increment unless the appointing authority directs otherwise.
(2)
The pay during the period of probation of a member already in Government service will be regulated by the relevant
rules referred to in Rule 21.
21.
Leave, allowances, pensions and other conditions of service.
-  Except as provided in these rules, the pay, allowances, leave, pensions and other conditions of service shall be
regulated by the rules framed under the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution of India and pending the issue of such
rules, by the rules made applicable by Government Notification No. A-5822/X-303, dated November 14, 1930, and No.
G-698/X-534 (44), dated July 16, 1937, continued in force under Article 313 of the Constitution.
Appendix A
[See Rule 5 (a) (2)]
Procedure for selection of candidates for admission to the Ranger's Course at the Indian Forest Ranger College, Dehra
Dun
1. The Government will report to the Commission the number of candidates to be recruited under Rule 5 (a) (2).
2. The Commission will announce the number of candidates to be recruited in the official Uttar Pradesh Gazette and the
leading newspapers of Uttar Pradesh and invite applications from the intending candidates to be recruited under Rule 5
(a) (2).
3. The application must be submitted direct to the Secretary to the Commission in the prescribed form (which will be
supplied by him on requisition after the announcement referred to in the preceding rule and on payment of a fee of Re. 1
which will not be refunded) and must be accompanied by the documents mentioned therein including a treasury receipt
of Rs. 4.
4. As required by Rule 6 a candidate for admission to the college must be bona fide resident of Uttar Pradesh. He must
have attained the age of 19 years and must not have attained the age of 21 years on August 31 of the year in which the
selection is made. He must also have passed the Intermediate Examination (or an examination of equivalent or higher
standard) with one or more of the subjects mentioned in Rule 8.
5. The Commission will hold a competitive examination for the selection of a candidate and will duly notify the date, time
Page 6/10
----- PAGE 7 -----
The U.P. Subordinate Forest (Rangers, Deputy Rangers and Foresters) Service Rules, 1951
and place of the examination. A candidate, who would have been entitled in respect of his age to appear at such an
examination in any year in which no such examination is held, shall be deemed to be entitled in respect of his age to
appear at the next following examination.
6. Candidates selected for admission to the examination will be required to pay a fee of Rs. 25 immediately after the
receipt of the certificate of admission :
Provided that for a candidate of the scheduled castes the examination fee shall be Rs. 15 only.
Note. - Only treasury receipt for the fee will be accepted by the Commission and no claim for a refund of the fee will be
entertained.
7. The subjects for examination with the examination marks allotted for each shall be as follows :
Section A-Compulsory
Full marks
(1)
English Essay
...
...
100
(2)
General Knowledge
...
...
100
(3)
Elementary Mathematics
...
...
100
(4)
Hindi
...
...
100
Section B-Optional
(5)
Any one of the following subjects
...
...
100
(a) Physics
(b) Chemistry.
(c) Zoology.
(d) Botany
(e) Indian History.
(f) Economics.
Section C
(6)
Viva Voce
...
...
250
Total
750
Page 7/10
----- PAGE 8 -----
The U.P. Subordinate Forest (Rangers, Deputy Rangers and Foresters) Service Rules, 1951
Note. - The viva voce test will be held by the Commission after the written examination on dates to be communicated
later and will be confined to such number of candidates only as have obtained a specified percentage of marks having
regard to the general standard of marks obtained by them.
N.B. - (i) From the marks of candidates in each subject, the Commission may make such deductions as they consider
necessary in order to secure that no credit is allowed for merely superficial knowledge.
(ii)
If a candidate's handwriting is not easily legible, a deduction may be made on this account from the total marks
otherwise secured by him.
8. The syllabus for the examination shall be as follows :
(1)
English Essay. - An essay to be written in English on one of several specified subjects.
(2)
General Knowledge. - Questions relating to current events and problems of every day life and present personalities with
a liberal choice of questions on contemporary subjects mainly, if not exclusively connected with India, will be set. The
object of the paper is to test the range of interest and the power of observation of the candidate.
(3)
Elementary Mathematics. - Ordinary questions of average efficiency in Arithmetic, Algebra and Geometry, such as set
for the High School or equivalent examinations of this State, will be set.
(4)
Hindi. - Questions will be of such a type e.g., writing an article or a letter, explanation of passages, meaning of words
and expressions and translation from and into English as well test whether a candidate has working knowledge of this
language.
(5)
Optional Subjects.-No syllabus is prescribed but question will be such as are set at the Intermediate Examination of this
State.
(6)
Viva Voce.-The test will be in matters of general interest. In awarding marks consideration will be paid to the personality,
address, physique, character and general suitability of the candidate.
Note. - The standard of the examination for Elementary Mathematics and Hindi will be that of the High School, and for
the optional subjects and English Essay and General Knowledge that of the Intermediate Examination.
9. The Commission will draw up a list of the candidates obtaining the highest aggregate of marks and forward it to
Government and candidates shall be selected for admission to the college in that order subject to the provisions of Rule
16 of the rules and paragraph 11 of this Appendix.
10. No candidate shall be allowed to appear more than twice for the examination.
11. (a) Selected candidates will be attached to a Divisional Forest Officer, for at least three months, usually between 1st
December and 15th March. During this period the Divisional Forest Officer concerned will supervise the candidate's
work and on its conclusion will report to the Conservator on the candidates' aptitude for forest duty.
(b)
Those candidates who obtain satisfactory reports on the. conclusion of their practical training under a Divisional Forest
Officer will be ordered to join the college on or about the 1st of April following. Others will be liable to be rejected.
12. During the three months' practical training each candidate will receive travelling allowance at the rates prescribed in
Appendix VII to the Financial Handbook, Volume III.
13. While undergoing the course of training at the college, the selected candidates will receive their tuition fee and will
be granted stipends to enable them to meet part of the cost of living at the college. They will also receive a
non-recoverable equipment allowance of Rs. 400 each in addition to the actual expenses incurred on journeys during
the course of training as passed by the President of the college.
14. Before joining the college each candidate will be required to sign an agreement in the prescribed form for binding
himself to serve the Government for five years after obtaining the rangership certificate.
Note. - Any agreement bond or security bond required to be executed by or on behalf of the holder of a scholarship or
stipend awarded by Government is exempt from payment of stamp duty in Uttar Pradesh.
15. On obtaining a higher standard certificate at the end of the two years' course at the college, the student will be
Page 8/10
----- PAGE 9 -----
The U.P. Subordinate Forest (Rangers, Deputy Rangers and Foresters) Service Rules, 1951
appointed as a forest ranger on the lowest pay in the time scale of pay of forest ranger, with effect from the day following
the date of his rangership certificate. The period intervening between the date of certificate and the date of taking over
charge will be treated as duty provided that it does not exceed 10 days.
Appendix B
General rules regarding nationality, domicile and residence of candidates for recruitment to services and posts under the
rule-making control of the Governor, Uttar Pradesh
[Vide Rule 6]
A candidate must be-
(a)
a citizen of India whose original domicile is in Uttar Pradesh, provided he has not acquired a domicile elsewhere; or
(b)
a citizen of India whose original domicile is in Uttar Pradesh, but who has acquired a domicile in Uttar Pradesh, and has
resided there for not less than five years at the date on which he applies for recruitment to the service or post; or
(c)
(i)
a citizen of India, and
(ii)
a person who has migrated or may hereafter migrate from Pakistan to reside permanently in this State, in whose favour
a declaration of eligibility has, except as hereinafter provided, been issued by the Governor.
Exceptions. - Notwithstanding anything contained in this rule, the following shall be eligible for recruitment-
(1)
a citizen of India whose father is (or, if dead, was at the time of his death) employed in any department of the Union
Government and (or was) liable to inter-State transfers provided that he has himself resided in Uttar Pradesh for three
continuous years immediately preceding the date of application for appointment; or
(2)
a person who migrated to the territory of Uttar Pradesh from the territory now included in Pakistan if he or either of his
parents or any of his grandparents, was born in India as defined in the Government of India Act, 1935 (as originally
enacted); and in the case where such person so migrated before July 19, 1948, he has been ordinarily residing in the
territory of Uttar Pradesh since the date of his migration; or
(3)
in the case where such person so migrated on or after July 19, 1948, he was registered as a citizen of India before
January 26, 1950 as required under sub-clause (11) of Clause (b) of Article 6 of the Constitution; or
(4)
a person who after having migrated to the territory now included in Pakistan, returned to Uttar Pradesh under a permit
for resettlement or permanent return issued by or under the authority of any law and every such person shall for the
purposes of Clause (b) of Article 6 of the Constitution be deemed to have migrated to the territory of Uttar Pradesh after
July 19, 1948.
Note. - (1) A declaration of eligibility as required by Clause (c) above will be given by the Governor after considering
each case on merit :
Provided that no declaration of eligibility will be required in the case of persons who migrated from Pakistan to reside
permanently in this State on or after July 19, 1948 but before September 30, 1948 if such persons have already entered
service on the strength of instructions issued in Appointment (B) Department Memo No. O-2213/II-B-282-41, dated
October 22, 1948.
(2)
The appointment of persons who are not covered by the provisions in Clauses (a) to (c) will be made only in every
exceptional circumstances and only on a temporary or contract basis, the specific orders of the Governor being obtained
in each case.
(3)
The original domicile prevails until a new domicile has been acquired, and a new domicile continues until the former
domicile has been resumes of another has been acquired. But a person can have only one domicile at one time for the
purpose of this rule.
Page 9/10
----- PAGE 10 -----
The U.P. Subordinate Forest (Rangers, Deputy Rangers and Foresters) Service Rules, 1951
(4)
A person acquires a new domicile by taking up his fixed habitation in a State which is not that of his original domicile.
Such a person may make a declaration of his having acquired a new domicile before the District Magistrate of the district
in which he takes up his fixed habitation but such declaration shall not by itself be regarded as sufficient proof of change
of domicile.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 10/10