
----- PAGE 1 -----
The U.P. Agricultural Tenants (Acquisition of Privileges) (Amendment) and Miscellaneous Pr...
The U.P. Agricultural Tenants (Acquisition of Privileges)
(Amendment) and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1951
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/7067556/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Uttar Pradesh - Act
The U.P. Agricultural Tenants (Acquisition of Privileges) (Amendment) and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1951
UTTAR PRADESH
India
The U.P. Agricultural Tenants (Acquisition of Privileges) (Amendment) and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1951
Rule
THE-U-P-AGRICULTURAL-TENANTS-ACQUISITION-OF-PRIVILEGES-AMENDMENT-AND-MISCELLANEOUS-PROV
ISIONS-ACT-1951 of 1951
Published on 1 January 1951
Commenced on 1 January 1951
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 1951.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The U.P. Agricultural Tenants (Acquisition of Privileges) (Amendment) and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1951
U.P. Act No. XXIII of 1951
023.
Authoritative English text[2]
[ Published in Gazette, Extraordinary, dated October 15, 1958]
of Uttar Pradesh Kashtkar (Visheshadhikar Uparjan) (Sanshodhan) aur Prakiran Nidesh Adhiniyam 1951.
An Act to amend the Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Tenants (Acquisition of Privileges) (Amendment) and Miscellaneous
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The U.P. Agricultural Tenants (Acquisition of Privileges) (Amendment) and Miscellaneous Pr...
Provisions Act, 1950 for certain purposes.
Whereas it is expedient to amend the Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Tenants (Acquisition of Privileges) (Amendment) and
Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1950;
It is hereby enacted as follows:
For SRO and other particulars, sec Gazette, Extraordinary, dated August 27,1915, passed in Hindi by the Uttar Pradesh
Legislative Assembly on September 17, 1951, and by the Uttar Pradesh Legislative Council on September 24, 1951.
Received the assent of the Governor on October 6, 1951 and was published in Gazette, Extraordinary, dated October
15,1951.
1.
Short title, extent and commencement.--
(1)
This Act may be called the Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Tenants (Acquisition of Privileges) (Amendment) and
Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1950.
(2)
It shall be deemed to have come into force from the ninth day of August, 1951 (hereinafter called the date of
commencement of the Act) except section 4 which shall be deemed to have come into force on the sixteenth day of
March, 1950.
2.
Definition.
- In this Act unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context, "occupier" shall have the meaning assigned to it
in the U.P. Agricultural Tenants (Acquisition of Privileges) Act, 1949.
3.
(Incorporated in section 12 of U.P. Act X of 1949).
4.
(Incorproated in section 10 of U.P. Act VII of 1050).
5.
Proceedings against an occupier under section 12 (1) (c) of U.P. Act X of 1949 to be stayed.--
(1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in the principal Act all proceedings pending on the date of commencement of this
Act or which are or may thereafter commenced against an occupier on any ground mentoined in clause(c) of sub-section
(1) of section 12 of the said Act shall be and are hereby stayed.
(2)
If in any proceedings under sub-section (1), the question is raised whether the person concerned is or is not an
occupier, the Assistant Collector shall, unless the question has already been decided by a competent court, after such
enquiry as he deems fit first decide this question.
6.
Revival of the declaration.
-- (1) An occupier whose declaration. under section 6 of the principal Act has been cancelled before the date of
commencement of this Act under clause (c) of sub-section (1) of section 12 of the principal Act, may within four months
of the said date apply to the Assistant Collector for revival of the declaration.
(2)
On receipt of application under sub-section (1) the Assistant Collector shall give notice of the same to the person at
whose instance the declaration was cancelled.
(3)
If the Assistant Collector, is after hearing the applicant and the person at whose instance the declaration was cancelled
is satisfied that the applicant is an occupier and the cancellation was not ordered for any of the reasons mentioned in
clasues (a) and (b) of sub-section (1) of section 12 of the principal Act and that the amount deposited by him has not
been refunded under sub-section (2) of section 12 of the said Act, he shall order that the declaration be revived with
effect from the date from which it was originally granted or from some subsequent date if the Assistant Collector for
reasons to be recorded in writing so considers necessary.
(4)
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The U.P. Agricultural Tenants (Acquisition of Privileges) (Amendment) and Miscellaneous Pr...
If the Assistant Collector finds that the applicant is otherwise entitled to the revival of the declaration but the amount
deposited has been refunded under sub-section (2) of section 12, he shall inform the applicant that he may deposit the
amount within the time to be specifed by the Assistant Collector.
(5)
Where the amount is deposited within the time allowed, the Assistant Collector shall order that the declaration be
revived.
7.
Restoration of possession.
(1)
Where an occupier who has applied for revival of declaration under section 6 was dispossessed of his holding
consequent upon the cancellation of the declaration, he may along with his application apply for his reinstament in such
holding.
(2)
If the Assistant Collector, after giving notice to the landlord and to the person, if any, in possession of the whole or part
of the holding, and after making such enquiry as may be necessary, is satisfied that the applicant should be reinstated,
he shall order accordingly.
(3)
The order directing the applicant to be reinstated shall be executable as a decree for ejectment passed in a suit under
section 180 of the U.P. Tenancy Act, 1939.
8.
Appeals.
-- An appeal against an order passed by the Assistant Collector under sub-section (2) of section 5 or under sub-section
(3) of section 6 or under sub-section (2) of section 7 shall lie to the Commissioner within 60 days of the order appealed
against and the order passed in appeal by the Commissioner shall be final.
9.
Repeal of U.P. Ordinance 111 of 1951.
- The Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Tenants (Acquisition of Privileges) (Amendment) Ordinance, 1951 is hereby repealed
and the provisions of Sections 6 and 24 of the U.P. General Clauses Act, 1904, shall apply to it as if it had been an
enactment repealed by an U.P. Act.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3