
----- PAGE 1 -----
The U.P. Ancient and Historical Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Preservatio...
The U.P. Ancient and Historical Monuments and Archaeological Sites
and Remains Preservation Act, 1956
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/45956099/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
3
]
State of Uttar Pradesh - Act
The U.P. Ancient and Historical Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Preservation Act, 1956
UTTAR PRADESH
India
The U.P. Ancient and Historical Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Preservation Act, 1956
Rule
THE-U-P-ANCIENT-AND-HISTORICAL-MONUMENTS-AND-ARCHAEOLOGICAL-SITES-AND-REMAINS-PRESERVA
TION-ACT-1956 of 1956
Published on 12 January 1957
Commenced on 12 January 1957
[This is the version of this document from 12 January 1957.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The U.P. Ancient and Historical Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Preservation Act, 1956
U.P. Act No. VII of 1957
039.
[12th January, 1957]
An Act to provide for the preservation of ancient and historical monuments and archaeological sites and remains in Uttar
Pradesh other than those declared by Parliament by law to be of national importance.
Whereas it is expedient to provide for the preservation and protection of ancient and historical monuments and
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The U.P. Ancient and Historical Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Preservatio...
archaeological sites and remains in U.P. other than those declared to be of national importance by the Ancient and
Historical Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains (Declaration of National Importance) Act, 1951, and for
certain other matters concerned therewith;
For Statement of Objects and Reasons, see U.P. Gazette, Extraordinary, dated May, 7, 1956. It received the assent of
the President on January 12, 1957 and published in the U.P. Gazette, Extraordinary, dated January 17, 1957.
It is hereby enacted in the Seventh Year of the Republic of India as follows:
1.
Short title, extent and commencement.
(1)
This Act may be called the U.P. Ancient and Historical Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Preservation
Act, 1956.
(2)
It extends to the whole of Uttar Pradesh.
(3)
It shall come into force at once.
2.
Definition.
- In this Act unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context, any referenc to ancient or historical monument
or archaeological site or remains, shall mean ancient or historical monument or archaeological site or remains other than
those declared by the Ancient and Historical Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains (Delcaration National
Importance) Act, 1951, to be of national importance.
3.
Re-enactment and application to Act VII of 1904 to ancient and historical monuments and archaeological sites and
remains.
- The provisions of the Ancient Monuments Preservation Act, 1904, as set out in Schedule I with the modifications
mentioned in Schedule II are hereby re-enacted and shall apply and be always deemed to have applied to ancient and
historical monuments and archaeological sites and remains in U.P.
4.
Continuation of notifications and orders, etc., issued under Act VII of 1904.
- Any action taken or purported to be taken including any declaration, appointment, notification, order, instruction,
direction, scheme, rule, regulation, form or certificate, made or issued or purported to be made or issued under the
Ancient Monuments Preservation Act, 1904, shall, so far as it is not inconsistent with the provisions of the said Act as
re-enacted and modified by this Act, continue in force and shall be deemed to have been taken, made or issued under
the provisions so re-enacted, unless and until directed otherwise or superseded by anything done or any action taken
under the provisions so re-enacted.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2