
----- PAGE 1 -----
U.P. Kshettra Panchayats (Payment of Compensation) Rules, 1965
U.P. Kshettra Panchayats (Payment of Compensation) Rules, 1965
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/26134035/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Uttar Pradesh - Act
U.P. Kshettra Panchayats (Payment of Compensation) Rules, 1965
UTTAR PRADESH
India
U.P. Kshettra Panchayats (Payment of Compensation) Rules, 1965
Rule U-P-KSHETTRA-PANCHAYATS-PAYMENT-OF-COMPENSATION-RULES-1965 of 1965
Published on 16 January 1965
Commenced on 16 January 1965
[This is the version of this document from 16 January 1965.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
U.P. Kshettra Panchayats (Payment of Compensation) Rules, 1965
Published vide Notification No. 10872-B/33-8-R-62, dated 16th January, 1965
In exercise of the powers under Section 237 of the U.P. [Kshettra Panchayats]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994]
and [Zila Panchayats]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994]
Adhiniyam, 1961 (U. P. Act No. 33 of 1961), read with Section 172 of the said Adhiniyam, the Governor of Uttar Pradesh
is pleased to make the following rules regarding payment of compensation by [Kshettra Panchayats]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994]
after previous publication with Notification No. 8984-B/33-8-R-62, dated November 2, 1964, as required under
sub-section (2) of Section 237 of the said Adhiniyam :
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
U.P. Kshettra Panchayats (Payment of Compensation) Rules, 1965
Chapter I
1.
These rules may be called the Uttar Pradesh [Kshettra Panchayats]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994]
(Payment of Compensation) Rules, 1965.
2.
They shall come into force from the date of their publication in the Uttar Pradesh Gazette.
3.
In these rules unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context-
(i)
"Adhiniyam" means the Uttar Pradesh [Kshettra Panchayats]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994]
and [Zila Panchayats]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994]
Adhiniyam, 1961 (U. P. Act No. 33 of 1961).
(ii)
"Affected person" means the owner or occupier of any building or land into, through or under which a drain is carried by
the [Kshettra Panchayats]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994]
under Section 172 of the Adhiniyam.
(iii)
"Appellate Authority" means the Sub-Divisional Officer exercising jurisdiction within the Khand.
(iv)
"Assessing Authority" means the [Kshettra Panchayat]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994]
or the Khand Vikas Adhikari if authorised by the [Kshettra Panchayat]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994]
to determine the amount of compensation payable under these rules.
Chapter II
4.
The compensation payable to the affected person shall be determined by the assessing authority.
5.
The assessing authority while determining the amount, of compensation shall take into consideration :
firstly the damage sustained by the effected person; secondly, the inconvenience caused to the affected person; thirdly,
deterioration or danger caused to such building or land; and fourthly, the cost of replacement or restoration of such
building or land to its original condition.
6.
The assessing authority shall first tentatively determine the amount of compensation proposed to be paid to the affected
person. Thereafter the assessing authority shall cause a notice to be served upon the effected person intimating to him
the amount of compensation proposed to be paid'.
7.
The effected person may, within thirty days from the receipt of the notice under Rule 6, file an objection in writing against
the amount of compensation intimated to him in the notice before the assessing authority stating therein clearly the
grounds of objections.
8.
Where no objection is filed, the amount of compensation determined by the assessing authority under Rule 6, shall be
taken as final and be payable to the affected person.
9.
(1)
Where an objection is filed under Rule 7, the assessing authority shall, after giving the affected person reasonable
opportunity of being heard, and after making further enquiry, if necessary, finally determine the amount of compensation.
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
U.P. Kshettra Panchayats (Payment of Compensation) Rules, 1965
(2)
The assessing authority shall furnish a certified copy of the orders determining the amount of compensation under
sub-rule (1) to the affected person free of charge and without delay.
Chapter III
10.
(1)
The affected person (hereinafter in this chapter referred to as the appellant) may, within thirty days from the receipt of
the copy of order mentioned in sub-rule (2) of Rule 9, prefer an appeal to the Appellate Authority against the final
determination of compensation by the assessing authority under sub-rule (1) of Rule 9.
(2)
An appeal under sub-rule (1) shall be in writing and signed by the appellant and may be presented by him or an agent
authorised by him in writing in this behalf.
(3)
The appeal shall be accompanied by a certified copy of the order mentioned in sub-rule (2) of Rule 9.
11.
(1)
On receiving the appeal in the Appellate Authority shall endorse thereon the date of its presentation and the name of the
appellate or his duly authorised agent, as the case may be, presenting it.
(2)
Appellate Authority shall, as soon as may be after the appeal is filed, fix a date for the hearing of the appeal and give
intimation of the same to the appellant or his duly authorised agent and the assessing authority in such manner as it
deems fit. A copy of the appeal shall also be sent to the assessing authority.
(3)
The Appellate Authority shall call for the record of the case from the assessing authority, if necessary.
(4)
Where the material on record is insufficient to enable the Appellate Authority to come to a definite conclusion, it may
take additional evidence or call for such further material from the appellant or Assessing Authority as it thinks fit. Such
material shall form part of the record.
12.
(1)
Whore on the date fixed for the hearing or on any date to which the hearing of the appeal may be adjourned, the
appellant or his duly authorised agent does not appear when the appeal is called for hearing, the appeal shall be
dismissed. Where the appellant or his authorised agent appears and the Assessing Authority or an agent authorised by
it in writing in this behalf does not appear, the appeal shall be heard ex parte.
(2)
Where an appeal is dismissed under sub-rule (1) the appellant may. within thirty days from the date of the dismissal of
the appeal apply to the Appellate Authority for the restoration of the appeal, and if it is shown to the satisfaction of the
Appellate Authority that the appellant or his duly authorised agent had not received intimation of the date of the hearing
of the appeal, or was prevented by any sufficient cause from appearing when the appeal was called for hearing, the
Appellate Authority may restore the appeal on such terms as to costs or otherwise as it thinks fit.
(3)
Where an appeal is heard ex parte and allowed wholly or partly, the assessing authority may, within thirty days from the
date of the order, or where no intimation of the appeal is received by the Assessing Authority within thirty days from the
date of the knowledge of the order, apply to the Appellate Authority to re-hear the appeal and if it is shown to the
satisfaction of the Appellate Authority that, an intimation of the date of hearing was received by the Assessing Authority,
or the Assessing Authority or his duly authorised agent was prevented by any sufficient cause from appearing when the
appeal was called for hearing, the Appellate Authority may set aside the order passed ex parte and re-hear the appeal
on such terms as to costs or otherwise as it thinks fit.
13.
The order of the Appellate Authority shall be final. It shall be in writing and state the points for determination, the
decision thereon and the reasons for the decision. A copy of the order shall be forwarded to the [Kshettra Panchayat]
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
U.P. Kshettra Panchayats (Payment of Compensation) Rules, 1965
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994]
concerned.
14.
The amount of compensation determined under these rules shall be paid to the affected person without unnecessary
delay.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4