
----- PAGE 1 -----
U.P. Zila Panchayats (Central Transferable Cadre) Rules, 1966
U.P. Zila Panchayats (Central Transferable Cadre) Rules, 1966
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/88335542/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Uttar Pradesh - Act
U.P. Zila Panchayats (Central Transferable Cadre) Rules, 1966
UTTAR PRADESH
India
U.P. Zila Panchayats (Central Transferable Cadre) Rules, 1966
Rule U-P-ZILA-PANCHAYATS-CENTRAL-TRANSFERABLE-CADRE-RULES-1966 of 1966
Published on 20 December 1966
Commenced on 20 December 1966
[This is the version of this document from 20 December 1966.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
U.P. Zila Panchayats (Central Transferable Cadre) Rules, 1966
Published vide Notification No. 5378-B/33-5-R-62, dated 20th December, 1966
In exercise of the powers under Section 237 of the Uttar Pradesh [Kshettra Panchayats]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994.]
and [Zila Panchayats]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994.]
Adhiniyam, 1961 (U. P. Act No. 33 of 1961), read with Sections 40 and 44 and sub-section (2) of Section 46 of the said
Adhiniyam and all other powers in this behalf, the Governor of Uttar Pradesh is pleased to make the Uttar Pradesh [Zila
Panchayats]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994.]
(Central Transferable Cadre) Rules, 1966 after their previous publication under Notification No. 4292-B/33-5-R-66, dated
Page 1/14
----- PAGE 2 -----
U.P. Zila Panchayats (Central Transferable Cadre) Rules, 1966
April 27, 1966, as required under sub-section (2) of Section 237 of the said Adhiniyam :
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These Rules may be called the Uttar Pradesh [Zila Panchayats]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994.]
(Central Transferable Cadre) Rules, 1966.
(2)
They shall come into force with effect from the date of their publication in the Gazette.
2.
[ Definitions.
[Amended by the U. P. Zila Panchayat (Central Transferable Cadre) (Sixth Amendment) Rules, 1995, vide Notification
No. 2069 - B/33-2-95, dated 17th April, 1995.]
- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Act" means the Uttar Pradesh [Kshettra Panchayats] and [Zila Panchayats]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994.]
Adhiniyam, 1961;
(b)
"Appointing Authority" means the Governor;
(c)
"Adhyaksha" means the Adhyaksha of a [Zila Panchayat]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994.]
;
(d)
"State Government" means the Government of Uttar Pradesh;
(e)
"Cadre" means a Central Transferable Cadre, created under Section 44 of the Act;
(f)
"Commission" means the Public Service Commission, Uttar Pradesh;
(g)
"Citizen of India" means a person who is or is deemed to be a citizen of India under Part II of the Constitution;
(h)
"Member of the Cadre" means a person substantively appointed under these rules or the rules or orders in force prior to
the commencement of these rules to a post in the Cadre;
(i)
"Substantive appointment" means an appointment not being an ad hoc appointment, on a post in the cadre, made after
selection in accordance with the rules and if there are no rules, in accordance with the procedure prescribed for the time
being by executive instruction, issued by the State Government;
(j)
"Year of recruitment" means the period of twelve months commencing from the first day of July of a calendar year;
(k)
"Chikitsa Adhikari" means a Chikitsa Adhikari of a dispensary of Zila Panchayat.]
3.
[ Creation of Central Transferable Cadres.
[Amended' by the U. P. Zila Panchayat (Central Transferable Cadre) (Fifth Amendment) Rules. 1987, vide Notification
No. 1147-B/33-2-700 (85)-85 U.P.A.-33-1961, Rule-1966-AM (51-1987, dated 1st May, 1987.]
- The State Government shall create transferable cadres of,-
(a)
Karya Adhikaris, Abhiyantas, Kar Adhikaris and Junior Engineers of [Zila Panchayats] separately consisting of as many
officers as the State Government may from time to time decide; and
Page 2/14
----- PAGE 3 -----
U.P. Zila Panchayats (Central Transferable Cadre) Rules, 1966
(b)
Chikitsa Adhikaris, Chikitsa Adhikaris (Incharge Homoeopathic Dispensary), Vaidas and Hakims separately consisting of
as many officers as the State Government may from time to time decide :
Provided that the State Government may, from time to time, increase any of the cadres by creation of additional or
temporary posts as may be found necessary or keep all or any of the posts in the cadres in abeyance.]
4.
Nationality.
- A candidate for recruitment to any post in the cadres must be-
(a)
a citizen of India, or
(b)
a subject of Sikkim, or
(c)
a Tibetan who came over to India before the first day of January, 1962 with the intention of permanently settling in India,
or
(d)
a person of Indian origin who has migrated from Pakistan with the intention of permanently settling in India :
Provided that a candidate belonging to category (c) or (d) above must be a person in whose favour a certificate of
eligibility has been issued by the Government of India :
Provided further that a candidate belonging to category (c) will also be required to obtain a certificate of eligibility granted
by the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Intelligence Branch, Uttar Pradesh :
Provided also that if a candidate belongs to category (d) above, the certificate of eligibility will be valid only for a period
of one year from the date of his appointment beyond which he can be retained in service only if he has become a citizen
of India.
Note.-Before a Tibetan in category (c) is finally approved for appointment to specific approval of the State Government
shall be obtained by the appointing authority.
5.
[ Pay scale and qualifications.
[Amended' by the U. P. Zila Panchayat (Central Transferable Cadre) (Fifth Amendment) Rules. 1987, vide Notification
No. 1147-B/33-2-700 (85)-85 U.P.A.-33-1961, Rule-1966-AM (51-1987, dated 1st May, 1987.]
(1)
The Scales of pay for the posts of a Karya Adhikari, Kar Adhikari, and Abhiyanta, a Junior Engineer, a Chikitsa Adhikari,
a Chikitsa Adhikari (Incharge Homoeopathic Dispensary), a Vaidya or a Hakim shall be as mentioned against, each in
the schedule.
(2)
The qualification and age-limits for direct recruitment to the posts in the cadres shall be as given in the Schedule :
Provided that the maximum age-limit for fighters of freedom and Scheduled Castes candidates shall be greater by four
years and five years, respectively :
Provided further that the State Government may in consultation with the Commission, relax the age-limit in favour of any
suitable or highly qualified candidate :
Provided also that the State Government may, in consultation with the Commission, relax the qualification prescribed for
the posts of
Abhiyanta and Chikitsa Adhikari in the case of candidate of otherwise suitable.]
6.
Character.
- The character of a candidate for recruitment to the cadre must be such as to render him suitable in all respects for
employment under the [Zila Panchayats]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994.]
. The character of candidate shall be verified by the State Government in such manner as they may deem fit.
7.
Physical fitness.
Page 3/14
----- PAGE 4 -----
U.P. Zila Panchayats (Central Transferable Cadre) Rules, 1966
- No person shall be appointed by direct recruitment unless he is in good mental and bodily health and free from any
physical defect likely to interfere with the efficient performance of his duties. Before a candidate is finally selected for
recruitment to the cadre, he shall be required to produce a medical certificate of fitness from the Civil Surgeon of the
district in which he ordinarily resides.
8.
Method of first appointment to the cadres.
(1)
Appointment for the first time to the cadres shall be made from amongst the officers who on 25th April, 1969 were
holding the posts of:-
(i)
Secretary or temporary or officiating Karya Adhikari in the case of Karya Adhikari;
(ii)
Engineer or temporary or officiating Abhiyanta, in the case of Abhiyanta;
(iii)
Tax Officer or temporary or officiating Kar Adhikari in the case of Kar Adhikari;
(iv)
Medical Officer or temporary or officiating Chikitsa Adhikari in the case of Chikitsa Adhikari.
(2)
Where any of the vacancies in any cadre remain unfilled after appointments from amongst the officers mentioned in
sub-rule (1), such vacancies may be filled by promotion or by direct recruitment as the State Government may decide, in
the manner provided therefor in these rules :
Provided that where the total number of vacancies in any cadre exceeds the number of officers eligible for consideration
therefor, such number as is in excess and is to be filled up by direct recruitment may be filled up without waiting of
appointment under sub-rule (1).
9.
Procedure for appointment under sub-rule (1) of Rule 8.
(1)
In case of appointments under sub-rule (1) of Rule 8 to the posts in any of the cadres, the State Government shall call
for the character rolls, service books and personal files, if any, of all the officers holding the posts of Secretary or Karya
Adhikari, Engineer or Abhiyanta, Tax Officer or Kar Adhikari and Medical Officer or Chikitsa Adhikari referred to in the
said sub-rule and arrange them in three lists separately for each category of posts.
(2)
The first list to be known as list 'A' shall contain the names of officer holding the posts of Secretary, Engineer, Tax
Officer or Medical Officer, as the case may be, in a permanent capacity and shall be arranged in order of seniority to be
determined on the basis of the date of substantive appointment to the respective posts.
(3)
The second list to be known as list 'B' shall contain the names of officers who were appointed to the posts of Secretary,
Engineer, Tax Officer or Medical Officer, as the case may be, in a substantively vacant post but were on probation
immediately before the appointed date referred to in clause (23) of Section 2 of the Act. The names shall be arranged in
order of seniority to be determined on the basis of dates on which such officers were appointed on probation to the
respective posts.
(4)
The third list to be known as list 'C' shall contain the names of officers who, on 26th April, 1966, were holding the posts
of Secretary or Karya Adhikari, Engineer or Abhiyanta, Tax Officer, Kar Adhikari and Medical Officer or Chikitsa
Adhikari, as the case may be, in a temporary or officiating capacity and it shall be arranged in order of seniority to be
determined on the basis of the date of continuous temporary or officiating appointment to the respective posts :
Provided that if the date of appointment referred to in sub-rules (2), (3) and (4) in respect of two or more officers is the
same, the seniority inter se of such officers in the lists concerned shall be determined on the basis of their age.
10.
The State Government shall then examine the character rolls, sendee books and personal files, if any, of all officers
whose names have been included in any of the lists referred to in Rule 9 and prepare two further lists separately for
Page 4/14
----- PAGE 5 -----
U.P. Zila Panchayats (Central Transferable Cadre) Rules, 1966
each cadre, one containing the names in order of merit with due regard to seniority of the officers considered suitable
absorption on the posts of Karya Adhikari, Abhiyanta, Kar Adhikari and Chikitsa Adhikari, as the case may be, and
another containing the names of officers not considered so suitable.
11.
List to be sent to the Commission.
- The list prepared under Rule 10, together with a brief note indicating the reasons for passing over the seniors, if any,
and the character rolls and service books of all the officers shall then be forwarded to the Commission.
12.
Recommendation of the Commission.
- The Commission shall, after examining the character rolls and service books of the officers named in the two lists
referred to in Rule 10, and if considered necessary by it, after interviewing all or any of such officers, send its
recommendations to the State Government.
13.
Appointments.
- Unless the State Government disagree with the recommendations of the Commission made under Rule 12, they shall
after re-arranging the names in order of seniority, make appointments from amongst the officer recommended by the
Commission :
Provided that where the State Government disagree with any recommendation of the Commission, they shall write to the
Commission and in case the Commission still disagrees, it shall be open to them either to accept or reject the
recommendation of the Commission and make appointments.
14.
Procedure for appointment by direct recruitment.
- Where any posts in a cadre have to be filled up by direct recruitment, the State Government shall report the number of
such posts to the Commission who shall be requested to make a selection therefor by direct recruitment. In doing so, the
Commission shall also be informed if any posts are reserved for Scheduled Caste candidates.
15.
Vacancies to be advertised.
- The Commission shall advertise the vacancies reported to it under Rule 14 and invite applications in such manner as it
deems fit.
16.
Competitive examination for Karya Adhikaris and Kar Adhikaris.
(1)
In the case of vacancies in the posts of Karya Adhikari and Kar Adhikari, the Commission shall make recruitment by
holding a competitive examination, followed by interview of those of the candidates whom the Commission decide to call
on the basis of marks obtained by them in written papers :
Provided that it shall be open to the Commission to combine the examination for the posts of Karya Adhikari, with that
held by it in any year for recruitment to the Uttar Pradesh Civil (Executive) Service and other State services, and the
examination for the posts of Kar Adhikari with that held by it in any year for recruitment to the posts of Assistant Sales
Tax Officer or other subordinate posts under the State Government.
(2)
The syllabus of examination for the posts of Karya Adhikari and Kar Adhikari shall be the same as is from time to time
prescribed for recruitment to the Uttar Pradesh Civil (Executive) Service and the posts of Assistant Sales Tax Officer
under the State Government, respectively.
17.
Commission to arrange names in order of merit.
- The Commission shall, as soon as the results of the competitive examination followed by interview referred to in Rule
16 are ready, announce in newspapers having circulation, the names of candidates considered suitable for appointment
to the posts of Karya Adhikari and Kar Adhikari, as the case may be, arranged in order of merit, and then send a list of
such candidates to the State Government along with their applications and connected papers. The Commission shall
also send a copy of the table of marks to the candidates who appeared at the examination.
18.
Page 5/14
----- PAGE 6 -----
U.P. Zila Panchayats (Central Transferable Cadre) Rules, 1966
Recruitment for Abhiyantas and Chikitsa Adhikaris.
- In the case of Abhiyantas and Chikitsa Adhikaris, the recruitment shall be made by interview, for which the following
procedure shall be followed :
(a)
The Commission shall scrutinize the application received and call for interview only such candidates as appear to it to be
best qualified for appointment :
Provided that the Commission may consider in absentia the case of any candidate who is unable to appear for interview
on grounds acceptable to the Commission.
(b)
The Commission may secure the assistance of one or more Technical Advisers at the time of interview of the
candidates.
(c)
After the interview, the Commission shall prepare a list of candidates whom they consider most suitable for appointment
and arrange the names in order of preference, the number of candidates in the list being a little larger than the number
of vacancies. The Commission shall then forward this list to the State Government along with the application and
connected papers of the candidates concerned.
19.
Appointments to be made by the State Government.
- The State Government shall on receipt of the list referred to in Rule 17 or in Clause (c) of Rule 18 make appointments
on the basis of the recommendations made by the Commission for the posts of Karya Adhikaris, Abhiyantas, Kar
Adhikaris or Chikitsa Adhikaris, as the case may be.
20.
Appointments to be notified.
- All appointments made under these rules shall be notified in the Gazette.
21.
[ Seniority.
[Amended by the U. P. (Central Transferable Cadre) (Sixth Amendment) Rules, 1995, vide Notification No.
2069-B/33-2-95, dated 17th April, 1995.]
- The seniority of persons substantively appointed in the cadre shall be determined in accordance with Uttar Pradesh
Government Servant's Seniority Rule, 1991, as amended from time to time.]
22.
Probation and extension of the period of probation etc.
- All candidates on appointment to posts in any of the cadres shall be placed on probation for a period of one year :
Provided that permanent or continuous temporary or officiating service rendered in a post included in any cadre or in an
equivalent or higher post may be counted by the State Government, in whole or in part, towards the period of probation :
Provided further that on the recommendations of the Mukhya Adhikari, which shall be sent to the State Government
through the Adhyaksha of the [Zila Panchayats]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994.]
in which he is serving, the State Government may in the case of any candidate extend the period of probation. The
orders sanctioning any such extension of the period of probation shall specify the exact date up to which extension has
been made and whether or not the extended period will count for purposes of increment of pay in the time-scale.
23.
Power of the State Government to dispense with the services of an officer.
(1)
If it is reported by the Mukhya Adhikari at any time during or at the end of the period of probation or extended period of
probation, and the report is endorsed by the Adhyaksha, that an officer has not made sufficient use of his opportunities
or if he has otherwise failed to give satisfaction, the State Government may dispense with his services.
(2)
Any officer whose services are dispensed with under sub-rule (1) shall not be entitled to any compensation.
24.
Confirmation.
Page 6/14
----- PAGE 7 -----
U.P. Zila Panchayats (Central Transferable Cadre) Rules, 1966
- At the end of the period of probation or the extended period of probation, as the case may be, the State Government,
on being satisfied that the officer concerned is fit. for confirmation, shall confirm him in his appointment.
25.
Criterion for crossing the efficiency bars.
- No officer of any of the cadres shall be allowed to cross an efficiency bar unless in the opinion of the Mukhya Adhikari
and the Adhyaksha he is found to have worked satisfactorily and unless his integrity is certified :
Provided that when there is a difference of opinion between the Mukhya Adhikari and Adhyaksha, the decision of the
State Government in the matter shall be final.
26.
Filling up of regular vacancies.
- Where any post under a cadre is rendered vacant by resignation, death, retirement or otherwise of a Karya Adhikari,
Abhiyanta, Kar Adhikari or Chikitsa Adhikari, the vacancy shall, subject to the entries contained in the last column of the
Schedule, be filled by the State Government-
(i)
by promotion or direct recruitment, as the State Government may decide, in the case of Karya Adhikari, Abhiyanta or
Kar Adhikari; and
(ii)
by direct recruitment, in the case of Chikitsa Adhikari :
Provided that the number of posts filled by promotion shall in no case exceed fifty per cent of the total number of posts in
any cadre.
27.
Procedure for filling up regular vacancies by promotion.
(1)
As soon as a vacancy occurs in a post in any of the cadres and the State Government decide to fill it by promotion under
Rule 26, they shall call for from all [Zila Panchayats]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994.]
the full particulars and the character rolls, service books and personal files, if any, of all candidates eligible for promotion
to the post according to the relevant entries in the Schedule and draw up a combined gradation list separately for each
category of candidates in such manner that the position inter se of the Kar Adhikaris or office Superintendents,
Overseers, Sahayak Kar Adhikaris or Accountants, as the case may be, is determined according to the date of their
substantive appointment as such :
Provided that, where two or more Office Superintendents or Overseers or Sahayak Kar Adhikaris or Accountants belong
to the same [Zila Panchayats]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994.]
, their position inter se shall be the same as it stands in that [Zila Panchayats]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994.]
:
Provided further, that the position inter se of temporary Kar Adhikaris and Office Superintendents, or Sahayak Kar
Adhikaris and Accountants for purposes of their promotion to the post of Karya Adhikari, or Kar Adhikari, as the case
may be, shall be determined by the length of their continuous service rendered in the District Board, Antarim Zila
Parishad and [Zila Panchayats]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994.]
:
Provided also that where in the case of two or more candidates of the same category, the date of substantive
appointment referred to in this sub-rule or the length of continuous service referred to in the preceding proviso is the
same, the position inter se of such candidates shall be determined on the basis of their age.
(2)
The State Government shall then examine the character rolls, service books and personal files, if any, of the candidates
named in the gradation list referred to in sub-rule (1) and draw up two more lists one containing the names in order of
merit of the candidates considered suitable for appointment and the other containing the names of the candidates not
considered suitable.
Page 7/14
----- PAGE 8 -----
U.P. Zila Panchayats (Central Transferable Cadre) Rules, 1966
(3)
The State Government shall thereafter refer to the Commission the two lists along with the gradation list, character rolls
and service books of all eligible candidates as also a brief note indicating the reasons for the proposed passing over of
seniors, if any.
(4)
The Commission shall, after receiving the gradation lists, send its recommendation to the State Government in the
manner provided in Rule 12, and the State Government shall thereafter, make appointments in the manner provided in
Rule 13.
(5)
In case of appointment by direct recruitment under Rule 26, the procedure to be followed shall be the same as is
provided in Rules 14 to 19.
28.
Postings and transfers by the State Government.
- The State Government shall have the power to make postings of the officers appointed in the cadres of Karya
Adhikaris, Abhiyantas, Kar Adhikaris and Chikitsa Adhikaris, to any [Zila Panchayat]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994.]
, and to transfer them from one [Zila Panchayat]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994.]
to another :
Provided that no temporary officer appointed to any post in a cadre shall, during the period of probation, be posted in the
[Zila Panchayat]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994.]
to which he was originally appointed.
29.
Transfer from one [Zila Panchayat]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994.]
to another.
(1)
In the event of transfer from one [Zila Panchayat]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994.]
to another under order of the State Government, the officers concerned shall be entitled to-
(a)
one week's joining time, pay for which will be given by the [Zila Panchayat]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994.]
to which he has been transferred; and
(b)
draw travelling allowance for the journey undertaken,, at the rates admissible to a Government servant drawing same
pay, from out of the funds of the [Zila Panchayat]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994.]
to which he has been transferred :
Provided that an officer under orders of transfer may be allowed advance travelling allowance by the [Zila Panchayat]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994.]
from which he is transferred and such advance shall be recorded on the officer's last pay certificate and recovered from
the [Zila Panchayat]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994.]
to which he is transferred.
(2)
The service book and character roll containing entries up to the date of relief of the officer transferred, alongwith the last
pay certificate as also the Provident Fund, Pass Book, if any, shall be forwarded by the Mukhya Adhikari of the relieving
[Zila Panchayat]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994.]
Page 8/14
----- PAGE 9 -----
U.P. Zila Panchayats (Central Transferable Cadre) Rules, 1966
to the Mukhya Adhikari of the [Zila Panchayat]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994.]
to which the officer has been transferred.
30.
Authority competent to sanction leave.
(1)
Except for casual leave which shall be sanctioned by the Mukhya Adhikari, the power to sanction all other kinds of leave,
excluding leave extending beyond the date of compulsory retirement, to any officer belonging to the said cadres shall
vest in the following :
(a)
the Adhyaksha of the [Zila Panchayat]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994.]
in respect of leave up to six weeks which period shall exclude any Sundays or holidays allowed to be prefixed or suffixed
to such leave; and
(b)
the Commissioner of the division in which the officer is posted for the time being in respect of leave for a period
exceeding six weeks.
(2)
The pay for the period leave shall be payable by the [Zila Panchayat]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994.]
from where the officer concerned proceeds on leave.
(3)
In respect of matters not covered by sub-rules (1) and (2) the provision of the U. P. Fundamental Rules (contained in
Financial Handbook. Volume II, Parts II to IV), as amended from time to time shall, in so far as they are not inconsistent
with the Act or these rules, apply to the Officers belonging to any cadre.
31.
Maintenance of service books and leave accounts.
- The service books and leave accounts of the officers of these cadres shall be maintained by the Mukhya Adhikari of
the [Zila Panchayat]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994.]
concerned.
32.
Annual entries in the character rolls of the officer.
(1)
On April 1, or immediately thereafter, each year, the Mukhya Adhikari shall send his assessment of the work, conduct
and integrity of the officers belonging to any of the cadres as observed during the preceding year to the Adhyaksha of
the [Zila Panchayat]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994.]
. The Adhyaksha shall in addition to recording his own assessment about the work conduct and integrity in the character
rolls of the officers record the assessment sent by the Mukhya Adhikari :
Provided that if the officer concerned is transferred to any other [Zila Panchayat]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994.]
after working for more than three months between April 1 and March 31, in any financial year, the Adhyaksha of the first
[Zila Panchayat]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994.]
shall, before the character roll of such officer is sent to the [Zila Panchayat]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994.]
to which he is transferred record in his character roll his assessment of the officer's work, conduct and integrity during
such period and also the assessment of the Mukhya Adhikari :
Provided further that it shall be open to the State Government to call for the character roll of any officer belonging to any
of the cadres and to make an entry therein at any time.
Page 9/14
----- PAGE 10 -----
U.P. Zila Panchayats (Central Transferable Cadre) Rules, 1966
(2)
Where an adverse entry in the character roll of an officer is made by the Mukhya Adhikari or Adhyaksha, it shall be
communicated to him and such officer shall be entitled to make a representation against it to the State Government
whose decision thereon shall be final and binding.
(b)
On the post of Chikitsa Adhikari, the senior-most compounder attached to the dispensary shall hold charge of the
dispensary in addition to his own duties for which an allowance equal to one-fifth of his pay shall be payable to him.
If the vacancy is for a period exceeding four months but not exceeding one year, the State Government may lend to the
[Zila Panchayat]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994.]
the service of some suitable Government servant to officiate on the post of Kar Adhikari, Abhiyanta, Kar Adhikari or
Chikitsa Adhikari, as the case may be:
Provided that if this is not possible, the State Government may allow the [Zila Panchayat]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994.]
to make arrangement in a manner laid down in sub-rule (1).
33.
[ Ad hoc and temporary officiating appointments.
[Inserted by the U.P. Zila Panchayats (Central Transferable Cadre) (Second Amendment) Rule, 1978, vide Notification
No. 1361 - B/33-2-44-78-UPA-33-1961-Rule-1966-AM (2)-1978, dated 24th June, 1978.]
- Notwithstanding anything contained in the rule, the State Government may make ad hoc appointments or temporary or
officiating arrangements for the posts falling vacant substantively are temporarily.
34.
Fees for recruitment.
- Candidates for direct recruitment to any of the posts under these rules shall pay to the Commission such fee as may
from time to time be specified by the State Government.]
35.
[
[Inserted by the U.P. Zila Panchayats (Central Transferable Cadre) (Fourth Amendment) Rules, 1984, vide Notification
No. 5261-B/33-2-213-G/84-UPA-33-1961-Rule-1966, AM (4)-1984, dated 27th March, 1985.]
Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules, reservation and other benefits for Scheduled Caste, Scheduled
Tribes and members of other special communities in recruitment to post by direct appointment or promotion under a
[Zila Panchayat] shall be in accordance with such orders as may from time to time be issued to the [Zila Panchayat]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994.]
by the State Government.]
Schedule
[See Rules 5 and 26]
Containing the Posts, Scale of pay, minimum qualification, age and method of recruitment
Sl. No.
Designation of Post
Scale
Qualification for candidate
Age limit
Method of Recruitment
Appointment
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
Page 10/14
----- PAGE 11 -----
U.P. Zila Panchayats (Central Transferable Cadre) Rules, 1966
1.
Karya Adhikari
Rs. 850-40-1,050-E.B-50-1,300-60-1,420-E.B.-60-1,720
A degree of a University established by law in
India or a qualification recognised as equivalent to such degree
by the State Government
21-30 years
By direct
recruitment or by promotion from amongst Kar Adhikaries with at
least 5 years substantive service as such and Office
Superintendents or Accountants with at least ten years
substantive service as such and eligible for the post of Kar
Adhikaries:
Provided that for Temporary arrangements not
exceeding one year promotions can be made from amongst permanent
Kar Adhikaries, Office Superintendents Accountants, if persons
with requisite experience are not available.
State Govt.
2.
Kar Adhikari
Rs. 570-25-770-E.B.-30-980-E.B.-30-1,100
A degree of a University established by law in
India or a qualification recognised as equivalent to such degree
by the State Government.
21-30 years
By direct
recruitment or by promotion from amongst Office Superintendents
and Accountants with at least five years substantive service as
such and Revenue Superintendents with at least seven years
substantive services as such and Revenue inspectors and Tax
inspectors with atleast ten years substantive service as such :
Provided that for Temporary arrangements not
exceeding one year promotions can be made from amongst permanent
Kar Adhikaries, Office Superintendents or Accountants, if
persons with requisite experience are not available.
3.
Abhiyanta including Atirikt Abhiyanta
Rs. 850-40-1,050-E.B.-50-1,300-60-1,420-E.B.-60-1,720
1. Diploma of Civil
Engineering from the erstwhile Thompson College of Civil
Engineering Roorkee; or
2. A degree in Civil
Engineering of a recognised University or Institute of India or
abroad or of such other institutions or Universities as may be
recognised by the Government from time to time; or
3. Passed Section A,
B and C of the Associate Membership examination of either the
Institute of Engineers (India) or the Institute of Civil
Engineers (England); or
4. Passed the
Associate Membership examination of the city and gilds institute
Page 11/14
----- PAGE 12 -----
U.P. Zila Panchayats (Central Transferable Cadre) Rules, 1966
(Imperial College of Science and Technology) South Kenington in
Civil Engineering; or
5. Any qualification
in Civil or Mechanical Engineering which is by the Institute of
Engineers (India) (as exempting the candidates from section A, B
and C of the associate membership examination of the institute;
or
6. Overseers Junior Engineers Diploma of a
recognised college of Institute or an examination body with
atleast 10 year's service as Overseers Junior Engineers or
Computer in[Zila
Panchayat]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994.]
or any other Local Authority or a Government or
semi-Govt. organisation.
21-45 years
By direct
recruitment or by promotion from amongst qualified Junior
Engineers possessing any of the qualification prescribed for
direct recruitment to the post of Junior Engineers with atleast
10 year's service as such:
Provided that a Junior Engineer possessing any
of the qualification equivalent to a degree standard as
specified for direct recruitment would be given 10 year's
seniority over Junior Engineers who possess only a diploma
qualification.
5.
Chikitsa Adhikari
Rs. 850-40-1,050-E.B.-50-1,300-60-1,420-E.B.-60-1,720
A degree of M.B.B.S. of a University
established by law in India or a qualification recognised as
equivalent thereto by the Medical Council of India.
21-45 years
By direct recruitment
State Govt.
6.
Junior Engineer
Rs. 485-15-590-18-626-E.B.-18-680-20-780-E.B.-20-860
Should possess a
Diploma of Civil Engineering from
1. Roorkee
University; or
2. The Hewett
Engineering School Lucknow; or
3. The Civil
Engineering College, Lucknow; or
4. The Aligarh
Engineering College; or
5. The Poona
Engineering College; or
6. The Orissa
Page 12/14
----- PAGE 13 -----
U.P. Zila Panchayats (Central Transferable Cadre) Rules, 1966
Engineering College; or
7. The Diploma issued by the M.G. Technical
Institute; or any other institutions recognised by Government or
the State Board of Technical Education
18-30 years
By direct recruitment
State Govt.
6.
Junior Engineer (Unqualified)
Rs. 340-10-400-E.B.-10-430-12-454-E.B.-12-550
Admissible only to the existing employees of
the Zila Panchayats exempted from the prescribed qualification
...
By interview from amongst the existing
employees exempted from the prescribed qualifications
State Govt.
7.
Chikitsa Adhikari Grade-II of Allopathic Dispensary
Rs. 570-25-770-E.B.-30-980-E.B.-30-1,100
Licentiate of the State Medical Faculty or
College of Physicians and Surgeon, Bombay or Diploma of L.M.P.
...
By interview from existing hand only
State Govt.
8.
Chikitsa Adhikari Grade-I incharge of Homeopathic Dispensary
Rs. 570-25-770-E.B.-30-980-E.B.-30-1,100
1. Degree in
Homoeopathic of a University established by law in India
2. Five year's
Degree or Four year's diploma in Homoeopathy (C.H.M.S. or
B.M.S.) of the Board of Homoeopathic Medicine U.P., or
3. Four year's diploma course in Homoeopathy
from any of the recognised institutions by the State Govt.
21-45 years
50 percent by direct recruitment and 50 percent
by promotion from amongst Chikitsa Adhikari (Homeopathic
Grade-II).
9.
Chikitsa Adhikari?s (Indigenous Hospital dispensary)
Rs. 570-25-770-E.B.-30-980-E.B.-30-1,100
Professional:
1. Degree in Ayurved
or Unani Tibbi of a University established by Law in India) or
2. Five year's
degree or Diploma in Ayurveda of Unani Tibbi (BIMS or DIMS) of
the Board of Indian Medicine; or
3. Diploma of
Ayurvedas Alankar of the Ayurvedic College-Kangri University,
Saharanpur District.
Experience-A minimum experience of 10
Page 13/14
----- PAGE 14 -----
U.P. Zila Panchayats (Central Transferable Cadre) Rules, 1966
years.
21-35 years
75 percent of the posts by direct  recruitment
and the rest by promotion from qualifiedvaidsandhakims.
State Govt.
10.
VaidsandHakims(Qualified)
Rs. 570-25-770-E.B.-30-980-E.B.-30-1,100
Any of the professional qualifications mentioned
against serial No. 9 with a minimum experience of one year.
21-35 years
75 percent by direct recruitment and 25 percent
by promotion from unqualifiedvaidsandhakims.
State Govt.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 14/14