
----- PAGE 1 -----
U.P. Zila Panchayats (Voting on Motions of Non-Confidence) Rules, 1966
U.P. Zila Panchayats (Voting on Motions of Non-Confidence) Rules,
1966
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/61682192/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Uttar Pradesh - Act
U.P. Zila Panchayats (Voting on Motions of Non-Confidence) Rules, 1966
UTTAR PRADESH
India
U.P. Zila Panchayats (Voting on Motions of Non-Confidence) Rules, 1966
Rule U-P-ZILA-PANCHAYATS-VOTING-ON-MOTIONS-OF-NON-CONFIDENCE-RULES-1966 of 1966
Published on 12 October 1966
Commenced on 12 October 1966
[This is the version of this document from 12 October 1966.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
U.P. Zila Panchayats (Voting on Motions of Non-Confidence) Rules, 1966
Published vide Notification No. 5439-B/33-157-65, dated 12th October, 1966
In exercise of the powers under Section 237 of the Uttar Pradesh [Kshettra Panchayals]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994.]
and [Zila Panchayats]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994.]
Adhiniyam, 1961 (U. P. Act No. 33 of 1961), read with sub-section (8) of Section 28 of the said Adhiniyam, the Governor
of Uttar Pradesh is pleased to make the following U. P. [Zila Panchayats]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994.]
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
U.P. Zila Panchayats (Voting on Motions of Non-Confidence) Rules, 1966
(Voting on Motions of Non-Confidence) Rules, 1966 after previous publication with Notification No. 2488-B/33-157-65,
dated July 27, 1966, as required under sub-section (2) of Section 237 of the said Adhiniyam :
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These Rules may be called the Uttar Pradesh [Zila Panchayats]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994.]
(Voting on Motions of Non-Confidence) Rules, 1966.
(2)
They shall come into force from the date of their publication in the Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
- In these Rules, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context,-
(1)
"Act" means the Uttar Pradesh [Kshettra Panchayats]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994.]
and [Zila Panchayats]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994.]
Adhiniyam, 1961.
(2)
"Member" means a member of a [Zila Panchayat]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994.]
.
(3)
"Presiding Officer" means the officer presiding under sub-section (4) of Section 28 of the Act at the meeting convened
for consideration of the motion of no-confidence.
3.
Procedure of meeting.
- As soon as the debate on a motion of no-confidence has concluded or the period of two hours for a debate thereon
under sub-section (8) of Section 28 of the Act has expired, the Presiding Officer shall announce that the motion shall be
put to vote which shall be held by secret ballot.
4.
Secrecy of ballot.
- The Presiding Officer shall cause such arrangements to be made as will ensure the secrecy of the ballot.
5.
Ballot paper.
- Every member wishing to vote shall be supplied with a ballot paper which shall bear a serial number and the official
seal and signature of the Presiding Officer on one side and the other being left blank.
6.
Issue of ballot papers.
(1)
The Presiding Officer shall have before him a list of members of the [Zila Panchayat]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994.]
and shall thoroughly satisfy himself about the identity of the member before issuing a ballot paper to him.
(2)
The member shall sign on the said list against his name in token of the receipt, of the ballot paper.
(3)
If the Presiding Officer is not satisfied about the identity of any person, he may refuse to deliver a ballot paper to him
after recording a brief note about the circumstances in which the refusal was made.
7.
Voting.
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
U.P. Zila Panchayats (Voting on Motions of Non-Confidence) Rules, 1966
(1)
Every member wishing to record his vote shall do so in person and not by proxy :
Provided that nothing in this sub-rule shall be deemed to prohibit the rendering of any assistance to any member who,
on account of any physical infirmity or illiteracy, is unable to record his vote on the ballot paper and requests for such
assistance.
(2)
The member shall put a (tick), '?' or (cross) '×' mark on the ballot paper against the word 'Yes' or 'No', according as he is
in favour or against the motion of no-confidence, respectively, and shall not put his signature or write his name on the
ballot paper or make any such mark by which the secrecy of the ballot paper may be infringed.
(3)
The member shall then fold up ballot paper so as to conceal the mark put by him and insert the same in the ballot box
placed in view of the Presiding Officer.
8.
Disposal of 'Returned and cancelled' ballot paper.
(1)
A member who has inadvertently dealt with his ballot paper in such a manner that it cannot be conveniently used as a
ballot paper may, on returning it to the Presiding Officer and on satisfying him of the inadvertence, obtain another ballot
paper in place of the ballot paper so returned and the letter shall together with its counterfoil be marked as 'Returned
and cancelled' by the Presiding Officer and kept a separate envelop set apart for the purpose.
(2)
If a member after obtaining a ballot paper decides not to use it, he shall return such ballot paper to the Presiding Officer
who shall deal with the said ballot paper in the same manner as prescribed in sub-rule (1).
9.
Ballot box.
- The ballot box shall be any of the types approved by the Director of Elections (Local Bodies) under sub-para (2) of para
37 of the U. P. Municipalities (Conduct of Members) Order, 1953.
10.
Inspection of ballot box.
- Before the commencement of the voting, the ballot box shall be shown open to such members as may be present at
the meeting and shall thereafter be secured and sealed in such manner that the slit for the insertion of the ballot papers
remains open.
11.
Counting of votes and declaration of results.
- The Presiding Officer shall immediately after the voting is over-
(a)
count the votes before such members as may be present and declare the number of votes cast in favour of the motion
and those cast against it:
Provided that in the event of these being an equality of votes cast in favour of or against the motion, the result shall be
determined by the drawing of lots;
(b)
declare the result.
12.
Validity of ballot papers.
- Any ballot paper which contains marks against both the words 'Yes' and 'No' or which bears any mark or any signature
of any voter by which he can be identified or which does not bear a serial or the official seal or signature as required
under Rule 5 shall be invalid.
13.
Custody of records and its inspection.
(1)
The Presiding Officer shall make into packets the ballot papers and other papers relating to the voting on the motion of
no-confidence, seal the packets and note thereon a description of the contents, the name of the [Zila Panchayat]
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
U.P. Zila Panchayats (Voting on Motions of Non-Confidence) Rules, 1966
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 9 of 1994.]
and its Adhyaksha against whom the motion of no-confidence was considered and the date of the meeting.
(2)
The packets shall be retained in safe custody in the office of the Collector for a period of six months and shall then
unless otherwise directed by a competent Court be destroyed.
(3)
While in the custody of the Collector the packets of ballot papers whether unused, cancelled, valid or rejected and the
list of members used while issuing the ballot, papers shall not be opened and their contents shall not be inspected by or
produced before any person or authority except under the orders of competent Court. Inspection of other papers shall be
allowed by the Collector to any person within such hours as he may fix for the purpose.
(4)
Inspection of the aforesaid records whether allowed by the competent Court or the Collector under sub-rule (3) shall be
subject to the condition of payment, of a fee of Rs. 2 (rupees two only) per day on which the inspection is made and
copies of the result declared prepared under sub-rule (b) of Rule 11 shall be furnished by the Collector to any person
who may ask for the same on payment of a fee of Rs. 2 (rupees two only) for each copy.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4