
----- PAGE 1 -----
Rules Relating to Non-recurring Grant-in-aid out of the Lump Provisions to their Publicati...
Rules Relating to Non-recurring Grant-in-aid out of the Lump
Provisions to their Publication not Specified in the Budget
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/135847598/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Uttar Pradesh - Act
Rules Relating to Non-recurring Grant-in-aid out of the Lump Provisions to their Publication not Specified in the Budget
UTTAR PRADESH
India
Rules Relating to Non-recurring Grant-in-aid out of the Lump Provisions to their Publication not Specified in the Budget
Rule
RULES-RELATING-TO-NON-RECURRING-GRANT-IN-AID-OUT-OF-THE-LUMP-PROVISIONS-TO-THEIR-PUBLICATI
ON-NOT-SPECIFIED-IN-THE-BUDGET of 1966
Published on 18 November 1966
Commenced on 18 November 1966
[This is the version of this document from 18 November 1966.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Rules Relating to Non-recurring Grant-in-aid out of the Lump Provisions to their Publication not Specified in the Budget
Published vide Notification U.P. Gazette, Extraordinary, dated November 21, 1966 Vide Shiksha (Gall Vibhag
Notification No.- 1/791/15-60 19-65 dated 18th November, 1966
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Rules Relating to Non-recurring Grant-in-aid out of the Lump Provisions to their
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Rules Relating to Non-recurring Grant-in-aid out of the Lump Provisions to their Publicati...
Publication not Specified in the Budget.
(2)
It shall come into force with effect from the date of the institution in the U.P. Gazette.
2.
The aforesaid lump provision shall not be supplemented by re-appropriation of funds from other heads in the education
budget.
3.
Conditions for sanction of grants.
- Expenditure from the aforesaid provision shall be governed by the following conditions;
(i)
Grants from these provisions shall be limited to educational institutions recognised by the Education Department and
imparting general education or to other institutions of an allied character.
(ii)
The grant shall be given to institutions for the purpose for which there is no specific provisions in the budget and which
has not separately received grant from Government for the same purpose during the year.
(iii)
The criteria for consideration of a request for a grant will be the deserving nature of the request after taking into
consideration the totality of the circumstances of the institution.
(iv)
The quantum of grant from this provision shall not normally exceed Rs. 5,000.
(v)
The grant shall be of a non-recurring nature and no institution shall be given grant from this provision continuously for
more than three years.
(vi)
Application for grant under this provision shall be made to the State Government in Education Department by the
institution in the form annexed to these rules.
(vii)
The grantee shall not utilize the grant or any portion thereof as 'Managers Contribution' towards any recurring or
nonrecurring grant sanctioned by the State Government.
(viii)
The grant shall be utilized by the grantee within twelve months from the date of its drawal failing which the grant or the
unspent portion thereof, as the case may be, shall be refunded to the State Government in one lump sum.
(ix)
The expenditure from the grant shall be subject to audit by the Accountant General U.P. to whom a copy of the order
sanctioning the grant shall be sent by the Government in Education Department under intimation of Finance (E-l)
Department.
(x)
The Education Department shall within fifteen months from the date of drawal of a grant by the grantee thereof forward
to the Audit office a proper utilization certificate showing whether the condition and purposes of the grant have been duly
fulfilled.
(xi)
The grant will be sanctioned by the various sections of the Education Department and copy of the order sanctioning the
grant shall be endorsed by them to Education (C-l) Department, who shall maintain proper account on this behalf:
Application Form
1. Name of Institution.............................................
2. Whether Registered..............................................
3. Whether recognised/and on the gran-in-aid list. ..............
4.
Purpose for which grant is required.............................
(With details of expenditure)
5.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Rules Relating to Non-recurring Grant-in-aid out of the Lump Provisions to their Publicati...
Particulars of grants (recurring and non-recurring), if any received during the year of application and the year preceding
it.................................................................
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3