
----- PAGE 1 -----
The U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad (Supervision and Control By The Housing Commissioner Ove...
The U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad (Supervision and Control By The
Housing Commissioner Over Officers and Servants of Board) Rules,
1966
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/196171639/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Uttar Pradesh - Act
The U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad (Supervision and Control By The Housing Commissioner Over Officers and
Servants of Board) Rules, 1966
UTTAR PRADESH
India
The U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad (Supervision and Control By The Housing Commissioner Over Officers and
Servants of Board) Rules, 1966
Rule
THE-U-P-AVAS-EVAM-VIKAS-PARISHAD-SUPERVISION-AND-CONTROL-BY-THE-HOUSING-COMMISSIONER-OV
ER-OFFICERS-AND-SERVANTS-OF-BOARD-RULES-1966 of 1966
Published on 1 January 1966
Commenced on 1 January 1966
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 1966.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad (Supervision and Control By The Housing Commissioner Over Officers and
Servants of Board) Rules, 1966
Published Vide Notification No. O-373 H/XXXVII-15-HB-65, dated March 28, 1967, published in U.P. Gazette, part I-ka,
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad (Supervision and Control By The Housing Commissioner Ove...
dated April, 1967, p. 540.
056.
1.
Short title and commencement.-
(1)
These rules may be called the Uttar Pradesh Avas Evam Vikas Parishad (Supervision and Control by the Housing
Commissioner over Officers and Servants of the Board) Rules, 1966.
(2)
They shall come into force with effect from the date of their publication in the official Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
- In these rules unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context, -
(a)
"Act" means the Uttar Pradesh Avas Evam Vikas Parishad Adhiniyam, 1965;
(b)
"Board" means the Uttar Pradesh Avas Evam Vikas Parishad established under the Act;
(c)
"Housing Commissioner" means the Housing Commissioner of the Board appointed under section 7 of the Act.
3.
The Housing Commissioner shall exercise general supervision and control over all officers and servants of the Board.
He shall ensure that all officers and servants of the Board maintain a reasonably high standard of efficiency and
discipline and their mutual relations are conducive to the proper functioning of the different departments of the Board in
the best interest of the work of the Board.
4.
The Housing Commissioner shall exercise direct supervision over the Class I and II Officers of the Board and shall keep
due watch over their work, conduct, integrity, mutual relations and relations with the public. The different heads of the
departments of the Board would be responsible to the Housing Commissioner for the maintenance of the efficiency,
integrity and mutual relations amongst the member of the staff working in their respective departments in the best
interest of the work of the Board.
5.
The Housing Commissioner shall inspect the working of each department of the Board at least once every year and
shall record his inspection note. A copy of every such inspection note along with a compliance report thereon shall be
placed before the Board within a period of there months from the date of inspection.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2