
----- PAGE 1 -----
The U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad (Assessment and Payment of Betterment Fees) Rules, 1967
The U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad (Assessment and Payment of
Betterment Fees) Rules, 1967
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/75509411/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Uttar Pradesh - Act
The U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad (Assessment and Payment of Betterment Fees) Rules, 1967
UTTAR PRADESH
India
The U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad (Assessment and Payment of Betterment Fees) Rules, 1967
Rule
THE-U-P-AVAS-EVAM-VIKAS-PARISHAD-ASSESSMENT-AND-PAYMENT-OF-BETTERMENT-FEES-RULES-1967 of
1967
Published on 22 July 1967
Commenced on 22 July 1967
[This is the version of this document from 22 July 1967.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad (Assessment and Payment of Betterment Fees) Rules, 1967
Published vide Notification No. O-375-HIXXXVII-23-HB-65, dated 22nd July, 1967, published in U.P. Gazette. Part I-ka,
dated 29th July, 1967, p 1482.
062.
In exercise of the powers under clauses (o), (p), and (r) of sub-section (2) of section 94 of the Uttar Pradesh Avas Evam
Vikas Parishad Adhiniyam, 1965 (U.P. Act No. I of 1966) the Governor of Uttar Pradesh is pleased to make the following
rules regarding assessment and payment of betterment fees.
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
The U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad (Assessment and Payment of Betterment Fees) Rules, 1967
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad (Assessment and Payment of Betterment Fees) Rules,
1967.
(2)
They shall come into force with effect from the date of their publication in the official Gazette.
2.
Definition.
- In these rules unless there is anything repugnant to the subject or context -
"Act" means the U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad Adhiniyam, 1965.
3.
Where a resolution has been passed by the Board under sub-section (i) of section 51 of the Act, such resolution shall
also declare the date on which, for the purpose of determining the amount of the betterment fee, the execution of the
scheme shall be deemed to have been completed.
4.
The amount of betterment fee leviable in each case shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of section 50
of the Act after following the procedure prescribed in these rules, by Housing Commissioner or by such officer of the
Board to whom the powers and functions under sections 51, 52, 53 and 54 of the Act may be delegated by the Board.
5.
On a date being fixed under Rule 3 and an Officer being appointed under Rule 4 the Board shall in consultation with
such officer give to every person on whom a notice has been served under section 29 or to the successor-in-interest of
such person, as the case may be a notice which shall state -
(a)
the date declared by the Board under Rule 3 as aforesaid,
(b)
the time, being some time not less than twenty one days after the service of the notice, and place at which the
assessment of such betterment fee will-be considered by such officer and every person upon whom such notice is
served shall be entitled to be heard either in person or by a duly authorized representative when the matter is taken into
consideration by such officer.
6.
After hearing such person or if such person fails to appear after the expiry of the period within which such person is
required to appear such officer shall proceed to pass the order of assessment of betterment fee.
7.
When such officer has determined the amount of betterment fee, the Board shall serve on the assessee a copy of the
order of the assessment.
8.
(1)
Every appeal filed under sub-section (4) of section 51 shall specify the ground or grounds on which the levy or
assessment of the betterment fee is questioned and shall contain a concise statement of the material facts on which the
appellant relies.
(2)
The Tribunal shall, as soon as may be, cause a copy of the appeal to be served on the Board and the officer
determining the amount of betterment fee.
(3)
The Board shall furnish to the Tribunal, on demand, the following information in writing:
(a)
the situation and extent of the land regarding which the betterment fee is to be determined;
(b)
the names of the persons by whom betterment fee is payable,
(c)
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
The U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad (Assessment and Payment of Betterment Fees) Rules, 1967
the amount of betterment fee payable by each person, and
(d)
a brief statement on the basis of assessment of the amount of betterment fee.
9.
The Tribunal shall then fix a date and time for hearing the appeal and give intimation in writing of such hearing to the
appellant, the Board and the officer determining the amount of betterment fee.
10.
(1)
The appellant may on appointed date and on subsequent hearings appear either in person or through a representative
duly authorized by him in writing in this behalf.
(2)
The Board or the said officer or a duly authorized representative of both the Board and the officer may likewise attend
hearings of the appeal,
11.
(1)
In making inquiries under sub-section (5) of Section 51 the Tribunal shall have and exercise the same powers as are
vested in a civil court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, in respect of -
(a)
proof of facts by affidavits,
(b)
summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person and examining him on oath,
(c)
compelling the production of documents, and
(d)
issuing commissions for the examination of witnesses.
(2)
The Tribunal may whenever it considers necessary inspect any property which is the subject-matter of appeal preferred
before it.
12.
(1)
The Tribunal after hearings have been concluded shall pronounce its award on the day fixed for the purpose and shall
communicate the substance thereof to each appellant.
Explanation. - The award may be in parts dealing with different appellants or different sets of appellants whose
objections involve substantially the same question for determination.
(2)
The award shall specify the betterment fee regarding each property and appointment, if any, of such fee between the
owner of the property and any other person having an interest therein and shall state briefly, the ground on which the
decision of the Tribunal is based.
(3)
The award shall also state the amount of costs incurred on the proceedings and by whom and in what proportion they
are to be paid.
13.
(1)
The award shall be dated and signed by the Tribunal and when once signed shall not afterwards be altered or added to.
(2)
The Tribunal shall as far as possible decide the appeal within six months from the date of its filing and where it is not
possible to do so in any particular case, the reasons therefor shall be recorded by the Tribunal.
14.
(1)
As soon as may be, but not later than one month after the making of the order, the Tribunal shall send the order to the
Board.
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
The U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad (Assessment and Payment of Betterment Fees) Rules, 1967
(2)
Any appellant may on application and payment of the fees prescribed by Board's Regulations obtain a copy of the order
from the Board.
15.
Where at any time before the date fixed in the demand notice served under the proviso to sub-section (1) of Section 52,
the assessee pays the entire amount of the betterment fee or of the balance then due he shall be allowed a rebate of six
paise per rupee.
16.
Where an instalment of betterment fee is not paid by the date fixed under sub-section (1) of Section 52 interest at the
rate of six per cent per annum upon the amount outstanding shall be payable by the assessee from that date.
17.
The period of grace, within which any unpaid instalment of interest due under an agreement executed in pursuance of
sub-section (1) of Section 58 may be paid shall be fourteen days.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4