
----- PAGE 1 -----
The U.P. Wheat Products Control and Distribution Order, 1967
The U.P. Wheat Products Control and Distribution Order, 1967
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/146194774/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Uttar Pradesh - Act
The U.P. Wheat Products Control and Distribution Order, 1967
UTTAR PRADESH
India
The U.P. Wheat Products Control and Distribution Order, 1967
Rule THE-U-P-WHEAT-PRODUCTS-CONTROL-AND-DISTRIBUTION-ORDER-1967 of 1967
Published on 7 March 1967
Commenced on 7 March 1967
[This is the version of this document from 7 March 1967.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The U.P. Wheat Products Control and Distribution Order, 1967
Published vide Notification U.P. Gazette, (Extraordinary), dated 7th March, 1967, vide Notification No.
7132/29-D-3(6)-67, dated 7th March, 1967
Whereas, the State Government is of opinion that it is expedient so to do for securing the equitable distribution and
availability of food grains at fair prices:
Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 (Act
No. 10 of 1955
), read with the Order of the Government of India in the Ministry of Food and Agriculture (Department of Food),
published under G.S.R. No 609, dated June 9, 1966, all other powers enabling him in this behalf, the Governor of Uttar
Pradesh with the prior concurrence of the Central Government is pleased to make the following Order, namely:
1.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The U.P. Wheat Products Control and Distribution Order, 1967
Short title, extent and commencement.
(1)
This Order may be called the Uttar Pradesh Wheat Products Control and Distribution Order, 1967.
(2)
It extends to the whole of Uttar Pradesh.
(3)
It shall come into force at once.
2.
Definitions.
- In this Order, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"District Magistrate" includes any officer authorised in writing by the District Magistrate to perform any of his functions
under this Order;
(b)
[ "Food Officer" means the Regional Food Controller, or the District Magistrate and for purposes of clause 5 includes the
Superintendent of Police Incharge, Crime Branch (Criminal Investigation Department), Uttar Pradesh, and any other
person authorised in this behalf in writing by the said Superintendent of Police.]
[Substituted by Notification No. 3736/XXIX-D-65-66, dated 7th June, 1967.]
(c)
"Flour Mill" means a power driven flour mill other than a roller mill;
(d)
"Regional Food Controller" includes any officer authorised in writing by him to perform any of his functions under this
Order;
(e)
"Roller Mill" means a flour mill in which disintegration of wheat is done by grooved steel or iron roller worked by power;
(f)
"State Government" means the Government of Uttar Pradesh;
(g)
"Wheat Products" means suji or rawa-maida, wholemeal atta or resultant atta, produced in a Roller mill or Flour mill.
3.
Restrictions on milling and sale of wheat products.
- No owner or other person in charge of-
(a)
a roller mill, or
(b)
a flour mill which is a party to subsisting agreement with the Central Government for allotment of imported wheat by the
latter to the former, for purposes of milling shall-
(i)
mill and indigenous, wheat, or
(ii)
sell or offer for sale any product of indigenous wheat.
4.
Furnishing of information and carrying out directions by roller mills.
- Where owner or other person incharge of a roller mill shall-
(i)
furnish correctly such information relating to the business of the roller as may be demanded from him by the Food
Officer for the purposes of the Order, and
(ii)
carry out such orders and directions not being inconsistent with the provisions of the Wheat Roller Flour Mills (Licensing
and Control) Order, 1957, or of any Order or direction issued thereunder, as may from time to time be given by the State
Government or the Regional Food Controller.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The U.P. Wheat Products Control and Distribution Order, 1967
5.
Power of entry, search and seizure, etc.
(1)
Any Food Officer may enter and search or authorise any person to enter and search any flour or roller mill or any
premises thereof used or believed to be used for the storage of wheat or wheat products and seize or authorise the
seizure of any stock of wheat or wheat products in respect of which he has reason to believe that contravention of this
order has been, is being or is about to be committed and thereafter take or authorise the taking of all measures
necessary for securing the production of stocks of wheat or wheat products so seized in a court and for their safe
custody pending such production.
(2)
The provisions of Sections 102 and 103 of the [Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (Act No. 5 of 1898)]
[Now see Section 100 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Act No. 2 of 1974).]
, relating to search and seizure shall, so far as may be, apply to search and seizures under this clause.
6.
Savings.
- The provisions of this Order shall be in addition to and not in derogation of anything contained in the Wheat Roller
Flour Mills (Licensing and Control) Order, 1957, or the Roller Mills Wheat Products (Price Control) Order, 1965.
7.
Rescission.
- The Uttar Pradesh Foodgrains (Control Requisition and Distribution) Order, 1963, is hereby rescinded and the
provisions of Sections 6, 8 and 24 of the Uttar Pradesh General Clauses Act, 1904 (U.P. Act No. 1 of 1904), shall apply
in relation to its rescission as they apply in relation to the appeal of an enactment by an Uttar Pradesh Act.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3