
----- PAGE 1 -----
The U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad (Form and Manner of Service of Notice) Rules, 1967
The U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad (Form and Manner of Service of
Notice) Rules, 1967
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/180692551/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Uttar Pradesh - Act
The U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad (Form and Manner of Service of Notice) Rules, 1967
UTTAR PRADESH
India
The U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad (Form and Manner of Service of Notice) Rules, 1967
Rule THE-U-P-AVAS-EVAM-VIKAS-PARISHAD-FORM-AND-MANNER-OF-SERVICE-OF-NOTICE-RULES-1967 of
1967
Published on 4 July 1967
Commenced on 4 July 1967
[This is the version of this document from 4 July 1967.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad (Form and Manner of Service of Notice) Rules, 1967
Published vide Notification No. O-308-H/XXXVII-22-(HB)-65, dated 4th July, 1967, published in V.P. Gazette, Pari I-Ka,
dated July 15 1967, p. 1404
061.
In exercise of the powers under clause (i) of sub-section (2) of Section 94 read with Section 29 and proviso (b) of sub
section (i) of section 33 of the Uttar Pradesh Avas Evam Vikas Parishad Adhiniyam, 1965 (U.P. Act No. I of 1966), the
Governor of the Uttar Pradesh is pleased to make the following rules prescribing the forms and manner of service of
notice required under Section 29 and the proviso (b) to Section 33 of the said Adhiniyam
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad (Form and Manner of Service of Notice) Rules, 1967
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad (Form and Manner of Service of Notice) Rules, 1967.
(2)
They shall come into force with effect from the date of their publication in the official Gazette.
2.
Definition.
- In these rules unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context -
"Act" means the Uttar Pradesh Avas Evam Vikas Parishad Adhiniyam, 1965.
3.
The Notice to be given under Section 29 of the Act to persons or classes or persons whose land/or building is proposed
to be acquired for the execution of any housing or improvement scheme or who arc liable to pay betterment fee and
shall be in Forms 'A' and 'B' respectively.
4.
The notice shall be served on.
- [(1) Every person whose name appears in the assessment list of the local authority within whose jurisdiction the area
comprised in the scheme lies as being primarily liable to pay any tax assessed Upon the annual value of any land or
building which the Board proposed to acquire or in regard to which the Board proposed to levy betterment fee.
(2)
Every tenure-holder of Gaon Sabha whose name appears in the Khatauni in respect of any such land or building.]
[Substituted by Noti. No. 308-H/XXXVII-22-HB-65, dated Dec. 5/8, 1967]
5.
Every such notice shall be signed by the Housing Commissioner or by an officer duly authorised by him in that behalf.
6.
(1)
Every such notice shall be served on officer or servant of the Board (i) by giving or tendering the notice to the person to
whom it is addressed, or (ii) if such person is not found, by leaving the notice at his last known place of abode or by
giving or tendering it to some adult member or servant of his family, (iii)if his address elsewhere is known by forwarding
such notice to him by registered post under cover bearing the said address.
(2)
[ If after due diligence it has not been possible to serve a notice on any person in the manner prescribed in sub-rule (1) a
copy of the notice shall be affixed on some conspicuous part of his land or building which the Board proposed to acquire
or in regard to which the Board proposed to levy betterment fee.]
[Substituted by Notification No. O. 303 -H/XXVII-22-HB-65, dated Dec. 5/8, 1967]
(3)
Whenever the person on whom the notice is to be served is a minor service upon his guardian or upon an adult male
member of his family shall be deemed to be service upon minor.
(4)
A copy of the notice shall be published by proclamation in the neighbourhood of the land.
7.
The form and manner of notice in which and the person or class of persons on whom notice shall be served under
proviso (b) to sub-section (1) of Section 33 shall so far as maybe applicable, be the same as prescribed in Rules 1 to 4
as if the alteration were a separate scheme.
FORM 'A'
Whereas the U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad has formulated a Housing Improvement Scheme known as the.....scheme
under section.....of, the Uttar Pradesh Avas Evam Vikas Parishad Adhiniyam, 1965;
And whereas it is necessary that the land/building situated within the boundaries of the scheme should be acquired for
the execution of the afaresaid scheme -
Boundaries of the Scheme:
East-
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad (Form and Manner of Service of Notice) Rules, 1967
South -
West -
North -
(A plan of the scheme area can be seen in the office of the Board on any working day during office hours);
Now, therefore, further notice is hereby given to all whom it may concern that the Board proposes to acquire the
lands/buildings situated within the boundaries of the above scheme for the execution of the scheme. Any objection to the
acquisition of the lands/buildings can be made in writing by any person interested therein to the undersigned within thirty
days from the date of service of this notice.
Housing Commissioner
[FORM 'B']
[ Substituted by Notification No. O 308-H/XXXVII-22-HB-65, dated Dec. 5/8, 1967]
Whereas, the Uttar Pradesh Avas Evam Vikas Parishad has formulated a Housing/Improvement Scheme known as
the.........Scheme under section...........of the Uttar Pradesh Avas Evam Vikas Parishad Adhiniyam, 1965;
And whereas, the Board has declared that betterment fee shall be payable in respect of the land/buildings situated
within the boundaries of the scheme but not acquired for the execution thereof and also in respect of the lands/buildings
situated within half a kilometer of the said boundaries, in accordance with section 50 of the Uttar Pradesh Avas Evam
Vikas Parishad Adhiniyam, 1965.
Boundaries of the Scheme:
East -
South -
West -
North -
(A plan of the scheme area and the aforesaid adjoining area can be seen in the office of the Board on any working day
during office hours);
Now, therefore notice is hereby given to all, whom it may concern, that any objection against the aforesaid levy can be
made in writing by any person interested in the lands/building to the undersigned within thirty days from the date of
service of this notice.
Housing Commissioner
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3