
----- PAGE 1 -----
U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad (Remuneration to The Presiding Officer of The Tribunal and E...
U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad (Remuneration to The Presiding
Officer of The Tribunal and Execution of Awards and Order of The
Tribunal) Rules, 1967
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/30275270/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Uttar Pradesh - Act
U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad (Remuneration to The Presiding Officer of The Tribunal and Execution of Awards and
Order of The Tribunal) Rules, 1967
UTTAR PRADESH
India
U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad (Remuneration to The Presiding Officer of The Tribunal and Execution of Awards and
Order of The Tribunal) Rules, 1967
Rule
U-P-AVAS-EVAM-VIKAS-PARISHAD-REMUNERATION-TO-THE-PRESIDING-OFFICER-OF-THE-TRIBUNAL-AND-EX
ECUTION-OF-AWARDS-AND-ORDER-OF-THE-TRIBUNAL-RULES-1967 of 1967
Published on 1 January 1967
Commenced on 1 January 1967
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 1967.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad (Remuneration to The Presiding Officer of The Tribunal and Execution of Awards and
Order of The Tribunal) Rules, 1967
Published videVide Notification No. 0-359-H/XXXVII-27-(HB)-65, dated December 21, 1967, published in U.P. Gazette,
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad (Remuneration to The Presiding Officer of The Tribunal and E...
Part I-Ka, dated 30th Dec, 1967, p. 3127
059.
In exercise of the powers under clause (ff) and (gg) of sub-section (2) of section 94 of the Uttar Pradesh Avas Evam
Vikas Parishad Adhiniyam, 1965 (U.P. Act No. I of 1966), the Governor is pleased to make the following rules regarding
remuneration to the Presiding Officer of the Tribunal and execution of awards and orders of the Tribunal:
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad (Remuneration to the Presiding Officer of the Tribunal
and Execution of Awards and Order of the Tribunal) Rules, 1967.
(2)
They shall come into force with effect from the date of their publication in the Uttar Pradesh Gazette.
2.
Definition.
- In these rules unless there is anything repugnant to the subject or context, -
"Act" means the Uttar Pradesh Avas Evam Vikas Parishad Adhiniyam, 1965 (U.P. Act No.I of 1966).
3.
Remuneration to the Presiding Officer of the Tribunal.
- The Judicial Officer appointed as Tribunal under section 64 of the Act shall be paid an honorarium of Rs. 150 (Rupees
one hundred and fifty) per mensem out of the funds of the Board.
4.
Conditions of Service of other Officers and Servants of the Tribunal.
(1)
The Judicial Officer appointed as Tribunal may utilize the services of any of the officers or servants working under him
with the consent of that officer or servant and the permission of the appropriate authorities. Such officer or servant shall
be paid such honorarium out of the funds of the Board as may be determined by Government in Housing Department in
each case.
(2)
The officers and servants appointed on a whole time basis shall be paid such pay arid allowances out of the funds of the
Board as may be admissible to officers and servants of the same class appointed by the Board. The regulations
regarding conditions of service of officers and servants of the Board shall mutatis mutandis apply to the officers and
servants appointed by the Tribunal on whole time basis.
5.
Execution of award or order of the Tribunal.
- Every award or order made by the Tribunal shall be enforced by the District Court in the jurisdiction of which the land or
building concerned in the proceeding before the Tribunal is situate as if it was the decree of the said court.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2