
----- PAGE 1 -----
U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad (Allotment of Temporary Alternative Accommodation to Occupie...
U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad (Allotment of Temporary Alternative
Accommodation to Occupiers of Buildings in The Area of Malin Basti
Sudhar aur Nipatan Yojna) Rules, 1968
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/98249482/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Uttar Pradesh - Act
U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad (Allotment of Temporary Alternative Accommodation to Occupiers of Buildings in The
Area of Malin Basti Sudhar aur Nipatan Yojna) Rules, 1968
UTTAR PRADESH
India
U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad (Allotment of Temporary Alternative Accommodation to Occupiers of Buildings in The
Area of Malin Basti Sudhar aur Nipatan Yojna) Rules, 1968
Rule
U-P-AVAS-EVAM-VIKAS-PARISHAD-ALLOTMENT-OF-TEMPORARY-ALTERNATIVE-ACCOMMODATION-TO-OCCU
PIERS-OF-BUILDINGS-IN-THE-AREA-OF-MALIN-BASTI-SUDHAR-AUR-NIPATAN-YOJNA-RULES-1968 of 1968
Published on 1 January 1968
Commenced on 1 January 1968
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 1968.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad (Allotment of Temporary Alternative Accommodation to Occupiers of Buildings in The
Area of Malin Basti Sudhar aur Nipatan Yojna) Rules, 1968
Published vide Notification No. 2184-ka/XXXVII-16(IX) -11-66, dated June 26, 1968, published in U.P. Gazette, Part
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad (Allotment of Temporary Alternative Accommodation to Occupie...
I-ka, pp. 1993-1994.
069.
In exercise of the powers under clause (n) of sub-section (2) of Section 94, read with sub-section (6) of Section 36 of the
Uttar Pradesh Avas Evam Vikas Parishad Adhiniyam, 1965 (U.P. Act. No. I of 1966), the Governor is pleased to make
the following rules regarding the manner in which and the extent to which alternative accommodation shall be offered
under sub-section (6) of Section 36 of the Act.
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad (Allotment or Temporary Alternative Accommodation to
Occupiers of Buildings in the Area of Malin Basti Sudhar aur Nipatan Yojna) Rules, 1968.
(2)
They shall come into force with effect from the date of their publication in the Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
- In these rules, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or the context -
(i)
'Act' means the Uttar Pradesh Avas Evam Vikas Parishad Adhiniyam, 1965.
(ii)
'Prescribed Authority' means any authority appointed by the State Government by notification in the Gazette to perform
all or any of functions of a Prescribed Authority under the Act.
3.
(1)
The Housing Commissioner shall, as far as may be, offer temporary alternative accommodation to the occupier of the
building ordered to be vacated in pursuance of an other under sub-section (6) of Section 36 of the Act..
(2)
Such accommodation may be in the nature of a transit camp equipped with arrangements of conservancy and drinking
water facilities.
(3)
The Board shall give a grant of Rs. 10 per allottee for transporating His personal effects from the building to be vacated
to the temporarly accommodation allotted to him.
4.
(1)
The allottee shall occupy the temporary alternative accommodation allotted to him within the time to be specified in the
allotment order.
(2)
The occupier shall give at least seven days notice to the Housing Commissioner, if and when he wishes to vacate the
temporary alternative accommodation after occupying it.
5.
(1)
The occupier shall regularly pay to the Board the rent fixed for the temporary alter native accommodation allotted to him.
(2)
If any occupier does not pay the rent due from him for temporary occupation and use of alternative accommodation for a
period of two months or" sub-lets the whole or any part of it, or otherwise contravenes any of the terms, express or
implied, regarding the occupation of such accommodation, the Prescribed Authority shall take action for eviction and
recovery of rent in accordance, as far as may be, with the procedure laid down in Section 69 of the Act.
6.
(1)
The Housing Commissioner shall offer permanent accommodation to the occupier of the temporary alternative
accommodation on completion of the permanent site of rehabilitation; but any occupier against whom action for eviction
from the temporary alternative accommodation has been taken under Rule 5 (2) shall not be entitled to such permanent
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad (Allotment of Temporary Alternative Accommodation to Occupie...
accommodation.
(2)
The occupier shall vacate the temporary accommodation and occupy the permanent accommodation within the period
specified in the allotment order, failing which he shall forfeit his claim for allotment of permanent accommodation.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3