
----- PAGE 1 -----
The U.P. State Electricity Board Services of Engineers Regulations, 1970
The U.P. State Electricity Board Services of Engineers Regulations,
1970
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/10195187/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Uttar Pradesh - Act
The U.P. State Electricity Board Services of Engineers Regulations, 1970
UTTAR PRADESH
India
The U.P. State Electricity Board Services of Engineers Regulations, 1970
Rule THE-U-P-STATE-ELECTRICITY-BOARD-SERVICES-OF-ENGINEERS-REGULATIONS-1970 of 1970
Published on 8 December 1970
Commenced on 8 December 1970
[This is the version of this document from 8 December 1970.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The U.P. State Electricity Board Services of Engineers Regulations, 1970
Published vide Notification No. 8501-A/SEB-157-A/69, dated 8.12.1970
In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 79 (c) of the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948, the Uttar Pradesh State
Electricity Board hereby make the following regulations relating to the recruitment and conditions of service of Engineers
under the U.P. State Electricity Board.
Part I ? General
1.
Short, title and commencement.
(a)
Page 1/24
----- PAGE 2 -----
The U.P. State Electricity Board Services of Engineers Regulations, 1970
These Regulations may be called the "Uttar Pradesh State Electricity Board Services of Engineers Regulations, 1970".
(b)
They shall come into force from the date of their publication in the State Government Gazette.
2.
Status.
- The Uttar Pradesh State Electricity Board Services of Engineers consist of the posts of Chief Engineer, Additional
Chief Engineer, Superintending Engineer, Executive Engineer and Assistant Engineer.
3.
Definitions.
- In these Regulations, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context-
(1)
'Act' means the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 (Act No. LIV of 1948);
(2)
'Appointing Authority' means the authorities defined in Regulation 14;
(3)
'Approved Service' means service rendered under the Board on the basis of a regular selection held by the Board so far;
(4)
'Assistant Engineer' means an Assistant Engineer who may be appointed as such by the Chairman, it includes such
other posts of equivalent status, as may be notified by the Board from time to time and included in the cadre;
(4-A) 'Assistant Executive Engineer' means an Assistant Executive Engineer who may be appointed as such by the
Chairman; it includes such other posts of equivalent status as may be notified by the Board from time to time and
included in the cadre;
(4-B) 'Senior Assistant Engineer' means an Assistant Engineer or Assistant Executive Engineer who is allowed the scale
of Executive Engineer without promotion to the regular post of Executive Engineer. It includes such other posts of
equivalent status as may be notified by the Board from time to time and included in the cadre;
(4-C) 'Senior Assistant Engineer (Spl. Grade)' means Senior Assistant Engineer who is allowed the scale of Executive
Engineer (Spl. Grade) without promotion to the regular post of Executive Engineer. It includes such other posts of
equivalent status as may be notified by the Board from time to time and included in the cadre;
(5)
'Board' means the U.P. State Electricity Board constituted under Section 5 of the Act;
(6)
'Chairman' means the Chairman of the U.P. State Electricity Board;
(7)
'Chief Engineer' means the Chief Engineer (Hydel) or any other Chief Engineer who may be so authorised by the Board
for the purposes of these Regulations;
(8)
'Chief Project Engineer' means the Chief Engineer of the Project under the Board;
(9)
'Citizen of India' means a person who is or who is deemed to be a citizen of India under Part II of the Constitution;
(10)
'Constitution' means the Constitution of India;
(11)
'Degree of a University' means the degree of a University established by law in India or any other University recognised
for this purpose by the Governor of Uttar Pradesh;
(12)
'Departmental candidate' means a candidate who is eligible for recruitment to a post in the cadre of the service under
clauses (b) and (c) of sub-regulation (1) of Regulation 5 of these Regulations;
(13)
'Direct Recruitment' means recruitment made against a post in the cadre of the service under clause (a) of
sub-regulation (1) of Regulation 5 of these Regulations;
(14)
Page 2/24
----- PAGE 3 -----
The U.P. State Electricity Board Services of Engineers Regulations, 1970
'Executive Engineer' means the Executive Engineer who may be appointed by the Chairman; it includes other posts of
equivalent status which may be included in the cadre;
(15)
'Executive Engineer (Spl. Grade)' means the Executive Engineer who may be allowed the scale of Executive Engineer
(Spl. Grade). The words E.E. (Selection Grade) or E.E. (S.G.) wherever occurring in these Regulations may be read
E.E. (Spl. Grade);
(16)
'General Manager' means the General Manager, KESA;
(17)
'Government' or the 'State Government' means the Government of Uttar Pradesh;
(18)
'Governor' means the Governor of Uttar Pradesh;
(19)
'Graduate Engineer' means a candidate holding a degree in Engineering from a University established by law in India or
any other University recognized for this purpose by the Governor of Uttar Pradesh, who is selected by the Board in the
manner prescribed in Appendix 'B' for a course of training under the Board;
(20)
'KESA' means the Kanpur Electricity Supply Administration;
(21)
'Member Administration' means the Member Administration of the Board appointed under sub-section (4) of Section 5 of
the Act;
(22)
'Member Engineering' means the Member Engineering of the Board appointed under sub-section (4) of Section 5 of the
Act;
(23)
'Member of the Service' means a person appointed in a substantive capacity under the provisions of these regulations or
of regulations and orders in force previous to the commencement of these regulations, to a post in any class in the
cadres of the service;
(24)
'Resident Manager' means the Manager or Head of any project, Circle or establishment who resides in the premises or
limits of such Project, Circle or establishment;
(25)
'Screening Committee' means the Committee constituted under Rule 4 of Appendix 'C';
(26)
'Secretary' or 'Member Secretary' means the Secretary of the Board;
(27)
'Selection Committee' means the Committee specified in Rule 5 of Appendix 'B' and 'D' and Rule 6 of Appendix C ,
(28)
'Service' means the U.P. State Electricity Board Service of Engineers;
(29)
'Superintending Engineer' means a Superintending Engineer who may be appointed by the Chairman; it includes other
posts of equivalent status which may be included in the cadre:
(30)
'Trained Engineer' means a Trainee Engineer who after a course of successful Training under the Board is declared fit
for appointment as an Assistant Engineer under the Board;
(31)
'Waiting List' means the list of Selected Candidates waiting for appointment;
(32)
'Year of Recruitment' means the period from 1st of January to the 31st December of a year.
Part II ? Cadre
4.
Page 3/24
----- PAGE 4 -----
The U.P. State Electricity Board Services of Engineers Regulations, 1970
Strength of Service.
(1)
The strength of the Service and of each class of posts therein shall be such as may be determined by the Board from
time to time.
(2)
The permanent strength of the service and of each class of posts therein shall, until orders varying the same have been
passed under sub-regulation (1), be as specified in Appendix A' to these Regulations :
Provided that-
(a)
any post in the cadres of the service may be kept vacant by the Appointing Authority or kept in abeyance the authority
competent to sanction the creation of posts in the cadres of the service, without thereby entitling any person to
compensation or other redress, and
(b)
the Board may create, from time to time, such additional, permanent or temporary posts as may be found necessary.
Part III ? Sources of Recruitment
5.
(1)
Initial recruitment to the service shall be made to the posts of Assistant Engineers in the following manner.
(a) []
[Vide Notification No. 8-Reg. Cell/SEB-84-157-A/69, dated 28.4.1984.]
By appointment from among 'Trained Engineers'
65-1/3%
(b) []
[Vide Notification No. 8-Reg. Cell/SEB-84-157-A/69, dated 28.4.1984.]
By promotion from amongst members of Junior Engineers Service
in the Selection Grade in the manner prescribed in Appendix 'C'
33-1/3%
(c) []
[Vide Notification No. 8-Reg. Cell/SEB-84-157-A/69, dated 28.4.1984.]
By promotion from amongst the confirmed and qualified
computers (Selection Grade) (E/M) in the manner prescribed in
Appendix 'C' :
1-1/3%
Provided that as between members of Junior Engineer and computer the vacancy shall be shared by them in the
proportion of their respective cadre strength from time to time.
(2)
Appointments to the other higher posts shall be made by promotion on the basis of selections which will be made in
accordance with the procedure laid down in Appendix 'D'.
(3)
Notwithstanding anything contained in these Regulations the Board may make appointments to the service, in relaxation
of these Regulations, from among employees of Electricity Undertakings or similar organisations which have been taken
over or which may, in future, be taken over by the Board or from among the merit position holders of Roorkee and
Varanasi Universities and Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur and such other Institution, as may be prescribed by the
Board from time to time, on such terms and conditions as may be decided by them.
6.
Reservations of Vacancies.
- Reservation of vacancies for Scheduled Castes/Schedules Tribes and Backward Classes in direct recruitment under
Regulation 5 (1) (a) shall be in accordance with the orders for such Reservation in force under the State Government at
the time of recruitment.
7.
Number of Recruits to be taken.
Page 4/24
----- PAGE 5 -----
The U.P. State Electricity Board Services of Engineers Regulations, 1970
(1)
The Board shall ascertain the probable number of vacancies likely to occur in the various classes of posts in the Service
during the course of the next year.
(2)
The Board shall also decide the number of vacancies to be allocated to Graduate Engineers and the number of
vacancies to be reserved for candidates belonging to Scheduled Castes/Tribes.
(3)
In case the requisite number of Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes candidates are not forthcoming or fail to be
selected, the remaining vacancies shall be filled in by other candidates in the list of candidates selected for training and
the deficiency made good in the manner indicated in the provisos to Appendix 'E'.
Part IV ? Qualifications
8.
Nationality.
- A candidate for direct recruitment as Trainee Engineer must be-
(a)
a citizen of India, or
(b)
a subject of Sikkim, or
(c)
a Tibetan refugee who came over to India before January 1, 1962, with the intention of permanently settling in India, or
(d)
a person of Indian origin who has migrated from Pakistan, Burma, Ceylon and East African countries of Kenya, Uganda
and the United Republic of Tanzania (formerly Tanganayika and Zanzibar) with the intention of permanently settling in
India :
Provided that a candidate belonging to category (c) or (d) above shall be a person in whose favour a certificate of
eligibility has been issued by the State Government :
Provided also that a candidate belonging to category (c) will also be required to obtain a certificate of eligibility granted
by the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Intelligence Branch, Uttar Pradesh :
Provided further that a candidate belonging to category (d) above shall not be retained in service beyond the period of
certificate of eligibility unless he has acquired Indian citizenship.
9.
Age.
- The age of candidates for selection as Trainee Engineer shall, on the 1st day of January of the year in which the
selection is made, be not less than 21 years and more than 28 years :
Provided that-
(i)
the maximum age limit shall, in the case of retrenched employees of the State Government, be greater by three years
and in the case of the employees of the Board and candidates belonging to Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes by five
years;
(ii)
if a candidate would have been entitled in respect of his age and other qualifications under these regulations to appear
for the selection in any year in which no such selection was held, he shall be deemed to be entitled in respect of his age
to appear at the next following selection;
(iii)
no candidate shall be permitted to avail of more than four chances at a selection; and
(iv)
the Chairman may relax the age-limit in favour of any candidate or class of candidates if he considers it to be necessary
in the interest of fair dealing or in the public interest, but, where this is considered necessary, a provision must be
inserted to this effect in the advertisement.
10.
[ Qualifications.
Page 5/24
----- PAGE 6 -----
The U.P. State Electricity Board Services of Engineers Regulations, 1970
[Substituted by Notification No. 276-Reg.-23/SEB-94-5-Reg.-88, dated 8.11.1994.]
- A candidate for direct recruitment as Trainee Engineer must besides having a thorough knowledge of Hindi in Devnagri
Script hold the following qualifications :
(i)
A Degree in Electrical/Mechanical/Tele-Communication/Instrumentation Electronics Engineering from a University or
Institution established by law in Uttar Pradesh or from any other Institutions recognised by the State Government or
degree or diploma recognised as equivalent thereto by the State Government; or
(ii)
Sections 'A' and 'B' of the Associate Membership of the Institution of Engineers (London); or
(iii)
be an associate member of the Institution of Electrical Engineer (India).]
11.
Character.
(1)
The character of a candidate for direct recruitment to the service must be such as to render him suitable in all respects
for employment under the Board. He must produce certificate of good character from-
(i)
the Proctor or the Principal Officer of the University or College, as the case may be, in which he was last educated;
(ii)
two responsible persons (not being relations) who are well acquainted with him in his private life and are unconnected
with his University, College or School :
Provided that the appointing authority may make further inquiries regarding the character and antecedents of a
candidate in such manner and from such authorities as may be considered necessary.
(2)
It shall be the duty of the appointing authority to satisfy himself in this regard.
12.
Marital Status.
- A male candidate who has more than one wife living or a female candidate who has married a man already having a
wife shall not be eligible for appointment to the Service :
Provided that the Chairman may, if satisfied that there are special grounds for doing so, exempt any person from the
operation of the provisions of this regulation.
13.
Physical Fitness.
(1)
No person shall be selected for training as a Trainee Engineer unless he be in good mental and bodily health and free
from any physical defect likely to interfere with his training or with the efficient performance of his duties as a Member of
the Service. Before a candidate joins the training, he must pass an examination by the Medical Board, as appointed by
the Board.
(2)
Regulations for the Medical Examination are given in Appendix 'F'.
Part V ? Appointment, Probation and Confirmation
14.
Appointing Authorities.
- The appointing authorities of the members of Service shall be as follows :
Name of Post
Appointing Authorities
1.
Asstt. Engineer
}
2.
Asstt. Executive Engineer
Page 6/24
----- PAGE 7 -----
The U.P. State Electricity Board Services of Engineers Regulations, 1970
3.
Executive Engineer
Chairman
4.
Executive Engineer (Selection Grade)
5.
Superintending Engineer
6.
All Officers above the rank of S.E.
Board
Provided that no appointment henceforth to the post of Assistant Executive Engineer shall be made except where such
appointment was due and is to be made effective from a date prior to 1.7.1979, but where an officer may already be
working as Assistant Executive Engineer he will continue till such time as he is either placed in the higher scale of
Senior Assistant Engineer or promoted to the post of regular Executive Engineer or otherwise moves out of the scale.
15.
Combined Waiting List for Assistant Engineers.
- A combined waiting list will be prepared on the basis of the list received under Rule 6 of Appendix B' and the 'Select
List' referred to in Rule 7 of Appendix 'C' by taking candidates in such a manner that every 1st and 4th vacancy is filled
by a promoted officer (J.E. or Computer as the case may be) and the remaining vacancies are filled by Trained
Engineer.
16.
Submission of Certificates.
- Before a candidate directly recruited is finally approved for appointment to the service, he will be required-
(1)
to produce the certificates prescribed in Regulations 11 and 13; and
(2)
to submit declarations-
(a)
of his relationship to any person employed under the Board;
(b)
of his being free from debt;
(c)
of all immovable property including house property owned or acquired by him or by a member of his family dependent
on him, full and accurate details of all such property being given by him in the form prescribed in Appendix 'G'; and
(d)
for serving the Board loyally and faithfully in the form prescribed in Appendix 'H'.
17.
Appointment to the Cadre of Assistant Engineer.
(1)
A person finally selected for appointment to the Service in the manner prescribed in these Regulations shall be
appointed thereto by the appointing authority (unless he subsequently becomes disqualified for appointment) on the
occurrence of a vacancy. The appointments shall be made in the same order in which the names appear in the
combined waiting list prepared under Regulation 15.
(2)
In case no approved candidate is available for such appointment on the list and it becomes essential to make
appointments in the interest of the Board, a person who is eligible for appointment by promotion to the Service under
these Regulations, may be appointed, but such an appointment shall not be made for a period exceeding four months,
without the specific approval of the Board.
18.
Appointments to the Cadres of A.E.E., E.E., E.E. (S.G.), S.E., Addl. C.E. and C.E.
(1)
Page 7/24
----- PAGE 8 -----
The U.P. State Electricity Board Services of Engineers Regulations, 1970
Appointments to the posts in the cadres of the Service higher than that of Assistant Engineer shall be made by the
Appointing Authority from the 'Select List' prepared in Rule 8 (1) of Appendix 'D'. In making such appointments, the order
in which the names of the officers appear in the Select List shall be followed :
Provided that where no officer exists on the 'Select List' or when the vacancy is of a short duration not exceeding four
months, an officer not on the 'Select List' may be appointed to a post in a cadre of the Service, as a temporary measure.
(2)
Permanent appointments. - Whenever a permanent vacancy occurs in the cadres of the Service, appointment in that
vacancy shall be made by the Appointing Authority in a substantive capacity from the 'Select List' in the order in which
temporary and officiating appointments have been made under sub-regulation (1) above of this regulation :
Provided that in the case of officer officiating on a post under State Government immediately before their absorption in
the Board's service, substantive appointment to a post in the cadre of the service shall be made in the order in which
their names appear in the seniority list as prepared in accordance with the fifth proviso to Regulation 19.
19.
Seniority.
- The seniority of officers on their appointment to the service shall be determined according to the date of the order of
appointment to a particular post in the cadres of the service :
Provided firstly that if two or more candidates are appointed on the same date, their seniority inter se shall be
determined according to the order in which their names appear in the orders of appointment issued by the Appointing
Authority, or in other words, the order in which their names are placed in the 'Select List' or 'Combined Waiting List', as
the case may be :
Provided secondly that the Appointing Authority may direct that an officer whose period of probation is extended for
failure to prove his fitness for confirmation be placed in the seniority list next below the last confirmed member :
Provided thirdly that the relative seniority of members of the Service who are appointed by direct recruitment shall be in
accordance with the order of preference in which they are placed by the Selection Committee at the time of selection, as
approved by the Appointing Authority (See Rule 6 of Appendix 'B') :
Provided fourthly that as between candidates who are appointed by direct recruitment and who are recruited by
promotion in the same year, the seniority shall be determined in the order in which their names are arranged in the
combined waiting list prepared under Regulation 15, provided that if in any year, it has not been possible to prepare the
combined waiting list due to late selection either from Junior Engineers Service or from Computers (Selection grade) or
found outside or due to any other unavoidable reasons, the names in the gradation list shall be arranged in the same
order in due course in respect of the vacancies allotted to each of the categories of candidates in that particular year, as
in the combined waiting list and the seniority determined accordingly :
Provided fifthly, that the inter se seniority of Government Officers absorbed in the service of the Board, while officiating
in any cadre of the Board's service, shall be the same as on the post held by them in the Government in a
permanent/substantive capacity and in the case of those officers who were not permanent on any post at the time of
absorption shall be the same as on the lower post held by them after regular selection in an officiating capacity.
20.
Probation.
(1)
Every candidate shall, on appointment to a post in the Service in or against a substantive vacancy, be placed on
probation for a period of two years from the date of taking over charge of the appointment :
Provided that the appointing authority may-
(a)
for sufficient reasons extend the period of probation in individual cases by a further period not exceeding two years. Any
such extension shall specify the exact date up to which the extension is granted but continuance in service beyond the
date upto which the period of probation is extended would not, in the absence of a specific order to that effect, amount to
confirmation;
(b)
allow to count towards the period of probation continuous service, if any, rendered in an officiating or temporary capacity
in a post in the cadre of the Service or in the cadre of an equivalent service of engineers under the State Government.
(2)
Page 8/24
----- PAGE 9 -----
The U.P. State Electricity Board Services of Engineers Regulations, 1970
If it appears at any time, during or at the end of the period of probation or extended period of probation, that an officer
has not made sufficient use of his opportunities or has otherwise failed to give satisfaction, he may be reverted to his
substantive post if he has one under the Board, or his services may be dispensed with it he has none.
(3)
A candidate whose services are dispensed with under sub-regulation (2) shall not be entitled to any compensation.
21.
Confirmation.
- A probationer shall be confirmed in his appointment after the completion of the period of his probation or the extended
period of probation, as the case may be, if-
(a)
he has passed the departmental examination prescribed by the Board from time to time;
(b)
his integrity has been consistently certified; and
(c)
he is found fit, in all other respects, for confirmation by the Board.
Part VI ? Pay and Allowances
22.
Scales of Pay.
- The scale of pay admissible to a person appointed to a post in the cadres of the Service, whether in a substantive or
officiating capacity or a temporary measure, shall be as sanctioned by the Board from time to time. The scales of pay in
force at the time of the commencement of these Regulations will be found in Appendix 'A'.
Provided that the Board or any other competent authority may, upon the recommendation of the appropriate Selection
Committee, allow a candidate a higher start within the approved limits in view of his special qualifications/ experience.
23.
Special Pay, Compensatory Allowance, etc.
- In addition to pay as in Regulation 22, a member of the Service shall also be entitled to such special pay,
compensatory allowance, or post-graduate pay, if any, sanctioned by the Board from time to time, subject to such terms
and conditions as may be prescribed by the Board.
24.
Pay during Probation.
(1)
A person appointed to the Service by direct recruitment, shall, during the first year of probation, draw the minimum pay
of the post in the scale admissible to him under Regulation 22 and shall receive his first increment when he has
completed one year of service and has also passed the departmental or other examination prescribed in Regulation 21,
unless exempted therefrom. On confirmation, he shall receive the second increment :
Provided that if the period of probation is extended on account of failure to give satisfaction, such extension shall not
count for increment unless the appointing authority directs otherwise.
The provisions of this sub-regulation will, mutatis mutandis, apply to temporary employees also and a temporary
Assistant Engineer will not get his second increment unless he passes Professional Examination, Part I.
(2)
If an increment is withheld from a person during the period of probation only on account of his failure to pass the
examination prescribed in Regulation 21, it shall be allowed to him on passing the examination with effect from the first
month following that in which the examination is held and the period during which the increment is withheld shall count
for increment in the time scale.
(3)
The pay during probation of officers recruited under clause (b) of sub-regulation (1) of Regulation 5 shall be regulated by
the rules referred to in Regulation 27.
25.
Criteria for crossing Efficiency Bars.
- The following criteria shall govern the crossing of efficiency bars in respect of the persons appointed to the post or
posts in the cadres of the Service :
Page 9/24
----- PAGE 10 -----
The U.P. State Electricity Board Services of Engineers Regulations, 1970
(a)
No member of the Service in the cadre of Assistant Engineers shall be allowed to cross the first efficiency bar unless he
is found to have worked efficiently, satisfactorily and to the best of his ability and his integrity is certified to be above
suspicion;
(b)
No member of the Service in the cadre of Assistant Engineers shall be allowed to cross the second efficiency bar unless
it is certified that he has continued to work satisfactorily, effectively and honestly, has displayed adequate engineering
skill and has acquired adequate experience and knowledge of the Board's rules and regulations;
(c)
No member of the Service in the cadre of A.E.E.; Executive Engineers; E.E. (S.G.) shall be allowed to cross the
efficiency bar unless he is found to have worked satisfactorily, efficiently and honestly and in the case of an Executive
Engineer and E.E. (S.G.) unless he has shown adequate engineering skill in the up-keep and maintenance of the
various installations under him and has displayed administrative capacity to carry on the work of a Division smoothly and
efficiently.
Part VII ? Other Provisions
26.
Canvassing.
- No recommendation for recruitment either written or oral, other than required under these regulations shall be taken
into consideration, and any attempt on the part of a candidate to enlist support, directly or indirectly, for his candidature
will render him liable to be disqualified.
27.
Regulation of pay, allowances, pension, etc.
- Except as otherwise provided in these Regulations or as specially covenanted in any Service Agreement, the pay,
allowances, pension, leave and other conditions of service shall be regulated by such corresponding rules of the State
Government applicable to similar category of officers and may have been adopted by the Board until promulgation of
regulations in this behalf by the Board.
28.
Savings.
- Notwithstanding anything contained in these regulations,-
(1)
The conditions of service of persons who have been appointed to posts in the cadres of the Service, on foreign service,
from the State Government or on deputation from elsewhere shall be governed by such terms and conditions as may
have been or may be settled between the Board and the State Government or other appointing authorities until they are
absorbed in the service of the Board :
Provided that the conditions of service of such persons as are absorbed under the Board shall be governed by the
regulations of the Board, which will not be less favourable than those applicable to them immediately prior to their
absorption in the Board's service;
(2)
The conditions of service of persons of the Electricity Supply Undertakings which have been taken over or may, in
future, be taken over by the Board who may be holding or who may hold posts in the cadres of the service or posts
declared in addition to the cadres of the service shall be governed by the Board's standard terms and conditions of
Service if they have been taken over by the Board on such terms and conditions or by the ex-licensees terms and
conditions if they have been taken over on such terms, as the case may be, unless they are given option and they opt to
be governed by such rules and regulations as may be promulgated by the Board hereafter in this behalf.
29.
Relaxation.
(1)
Nothing in these Regulations shall be construed to limit or abridge the power of the Board to deal with the case of any
person appointed by the Board and governed by these regulations in such manner as may appear just and equitable :
Provided that where any of the foregoing regulations is applicable to the case of any person, the case shall not be dealt
with in a manner less favourable to him than that provided by that regulation.
Page 10/24
----- PAGE 11 -----
The U.P. State Electricity Board Services of Engineers Regulations, 1970
(2)
When, in the opinion of the Board, it appears necessary to do so, the Board may make any appointment or
appointments to the Service in relaxation of these regulations or in partial relaxation of any or some of the regulations
and, in case of any appointment which is not in strict accordance with these regulations, the Board shall be deemed to
have made the appointment in relaxation of these Regulations.
30.
Declarations.
- The Board may, whenever, considered expedient, delegate any of its powers to any officer or authority under these
regulations or the powers conferred on any officer or authority under these regulations to any other officer or authority.
Appendix 'A'
[See Regulation 4 (2) and 22]
The scales of pay attached to the various posts included therein are as follows :
Name of Post
Scale of Pay*
Rs.
1025-50-1275-EB-1425-60-1845
For A.E.E.
1225-50-1275-EB-1425-60-1965
For Sr. A.E.
1.
Assistant Engineer
1425-60-1845-EB-75-2220
For Sr. A.E. (Spl. Grade)
1830-60-2010-EB-2160-75-2385
2.
Executive Engineer
1425-60-1845-EB-75-2220
For E.E. (Spl. Grade)
1830-60-2010-EB-2160-75-2385
3.
Superintending Engineer
2050-75-2200-100-2700
4.
Addl. Chief Engineer
2500-100-3000
5.
Chief Engineer
2800-100-3200
* For Latest Pay Scale, please see Current G.O.
Appendix 'B'
[See Clause (a) of sub-regulation (1) of Regulation 5]
Procedure for Direct Recruitment
1. The Board will announce the number of candidates to be recruited in leading newspapers of the State and invite
applications from eligible candidates within such time as may be specified in the announcement.
2. Application shall be submitted direct to the Secretary to the Board on the prescribed form which may be obtained from
the office of the Board.
3. The Board will hold a written test and/or interview as they deem fit either by themselves or through an outside Agency
for selection of the candidates and will duly notify by registered post the date, time and place of such written test and/or
interview.
4. Candidates shall pay the following fees :
(i)
Page 11/24
----- PAGE 12 -----
The U.P. State Electricity Board Services of Engineers Regulations, 1970
Cost of application form Rs. 5 (to be sent alongwith a requisition for application form).
(ii)
Application fee Rs. 7 (Rs. 2 for SC/ST candidates).
(iii)
Written Test/Interview fee Rs. 20 (Rs. 7 for SC/ST candidates) or as may be decided by the Chairman.
[5. The selection shall be made by a selection committee consisting of the following :
(a)
An Ex-Chairman/member of the U.P. State Electricity Board will act as President of the Committee. In case of retired
person the nomination will be made by the Chairman;
(b)
One member of the Board to be nominated by the Chairman;
(c)
One expert in the Field of Management to be nominated by the Chairman;
(d)
One Chief Engineer who shall also act as Secretary of the committee to be nominated by the Chairman, U.P. State
Electricity Board.]
6. Marks will be awarded at the interview up to maximum of 200 to each candidate for his suitability for appointment in
respect of general bearing and suitability physique, personality, interest in outdoor life, intelligence, character and
academic career. On the basis of the marks allotted, a list of the candidates shall be prepared in order of preference and
forwarded to the Board. The Board shall recruit from the list so received such number of candidates as the Board may
decide.
7.
(1)
All candidates will be required to satisfy minimum requirements of physical standards as prescribed in Regulation 13
and Appendix 'F'.
(2)
The Board will arrange for medical examination of selected candidates by a Medical Board which shall send necessary
certificates prescribed in Appendix F' testifying to the candidate's sound bearing and general physical fitness for rough
outdoor work in the Operation and Maintenance Divisions/Units of the Board and to the fact that he bears on his body
marks of successful vaccination.
8. Candidates who satisfy the provisions of Rule 7 above, shall have to undergo training for such period and on such
terms as the Board may decide, including practical training, a candidate admitted to the training will have to execute a
personal bond for Rs. 10,000 at the time of joining as A.E. (Trainee) together with a surety, who is solvent for not less
than Rs. 10.000 and in proof of the same the bond should be supported by a solvency certificate from a Revenue Officer
not below the rank of Tehsildar. for serving the Board on the terms and conditions set forth therein for at least three
years from the date of his initial appointment on the post of A.E., after training, failing which the Bond will be forfeited to
Board.
9. The facilities granted by the Board for training will be subject to the following conditions :
(i)
that the progress of the trainee in his studies is satisfactory;
(ii)
that the trainee gives security for refund of all payments made during the period of training in the event of his failing to
qualify for appointment as Assistant Engineer, or for not executing the Board as specified in Rule 8 above or for failing to
join the post offered at the end of the period of training.
10. During the period of training, a trainee will be governed by such rules, regulations and orders as may be prescribed
from time to time and the performance of the trainee shall be evaluated regularly through quarterly test. If a trainee fails
to pass three such consecutive quarterly tests, his services shall be liable to be terminated forthwith.
11. On completion of the training and before appointment as Assistant Engineer, a trainee will be required to pass a final
test, as may be prescribed. He may also be required to sign a Service Agreement setting forth the terms and conditions
of his appointment as may be prescribed.
12. If a trainee fails to qualify at the final test for appointment as Assistant Engineer, his period of training may be
Page 12/24
----- PAGE 13 -----
The U.P. State Electricity Board Services of Engineers Regulations, 1970
extended and he may be given one more chance to pass the final test for appointment as Assistant Engineer subject to
a maximum period of training of two years, whereafter the services of the trainee shall be liable to be terminated
forthwith.
13. A candidate will loose his seniority if he fails to qualify in the first test or tests.
Appendix 'C'
[See Clause (b) of Sub-Regulation (1) of Regulation 5]
[1. (a) For the purpose of recruitment under clauses (b) and (c) of sub-regulation (1) of Regulation 5, a selection based
on seniority subject to rejection of unfit shall be made, as far as possible, each year from amongst all the-
(i)
Members of Junior Engineer service (Elec./Mech./Electronics) who are confirmed on the post and have rendered at least
10 years of service in the cadre out of which 4 years service must be in the selection grade;
(ii)
Computer's who are confirmed on the post and have rendered at least 10 years, service as computer/Draughtsman out
of which 4 years must be in the selection grade of computer and possessing any of the following qualifications :
(A)
Diploma in Elec./Mech. Engg. issued by universities established in India by an Act of Central/State Government; or
(B)
3 years' Diploma in Elec./Mech. Engg. issued by the State Board of Technical Education.
(b)
[Deleted].
2. The Chief Engineer (Hydel) will invite recommendations from his Superintending Engineers about the candidates
eligible for selection and the Superintending Engineers may consult their Executive Engineers before forwarding their
recommendations.
3. In making their recommendations, the Superintending Engineers will also forward the personal files and the Character
rolls of the candidates to the Chief Engineer.
4. The recommendations received from the Superintending Engineers will be duly scrutinized by a Screening Committee
consisting of the following :
(i)
The Chief Engineer;
(ii)
Addl. Chief Engineer;
(iii)
A Senior Superintending Engineer to be nominated by the Chief Engineer.
The Screening Committee will prepare a list (separately for Junior Engineers and Computers) of the most suitable
candidates arranged in order of seniority from amongst those found eligible for promotion to the post of Assistant
Engineer or other equivalent posts, the number of candidates on the list so prepared will be double the number of
vacancies available for appointment during the year.
5. The Chief Engineer will sent the above list, together with the gradation list indicating the reasons for passing over the
services, if any, and the character roll and personal files of all eligible candidates, to the Board by a fixed date.
6. The Selection Committee of the Board shall scrutinize the recommendations for final selection and in doing so, the
Selection Committee may require any or all candidates to appear before them. The Selection Committee shall consist of
the following :
(i)
Chairman;
(ii)
One whole-time member of the Board (to be nominated by Chairman);
(iii)
One Chief Engineer (to be nominated by Chairman).
7. The names of the candidates in the final list known as 'Select List' as approved by the Board, will be rearranged in
order of their seniority in the present service and they will be appointed against the vacancies as and when they occur.
8. The 'Select List' will hold good for one year only or if the Board so requires, until such time as the next selection is
Page 13/24
----- PAGE 14 -----
The U.P. State Electricity Board Services of Engineers Regulations, 1970
made.
Appendix 'D'
[See Sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 5]
1. Selection to the posts of Chief Engineer. - Selection to the post of Chief Engineer and other equivalent posts as may
be specified by the Board, in the cadre of the Service, shall be made from among permanent Superintending Engineers
who have put in not less than 6 years service as Additional Chief Engineer/Superintending Engineer as such on July of
the year in which the selection is made.
2. Selection to the post of Additional Chief Engineer. - Selection to the posts of Additional Chief Engineer and other
equivalent posts as may be specified by the Board, in the cadre of the Service, shall be made from among permanent
Superintending Engineers who have put in 4 years service as such on July 1 of the year in which selection is made.
3. Selection to the posts of Superintending Engineers. - Selection to the post of Superintending Engineers and other
equivalent posts, as may be specified by the Board, in the cadre of the Service shall be made from among the
permanent Executive Engineer who have, on July 1 of the year in which the selection is made, put in minimum of 15
years Service on Class II and higher posts under the State Government or the Board :
Provided that out of the above 15 years, at least 6 years service must have been rendered on the posts of Executive
Engineer and/or other equivalent posts :
Provided further that officers who have rendered not less than 6 years service as Executive Engineer as above may be
considered eligible for appointment to temporary and officiating posts of Superintending Engineers even if they have
rendered less than 15 years service on Class II and higher posts.
4. Amendment being made - (a) Eligibility for the scale of Executive Engineer (Spl. Grade). - Officers who have
completed 5 years service as a regular Executive Engineer or combined as regular Executive Engineer and Sr.
Assistant Engineer on or after 1.7.1979 shall on being found fit and deserving otherwise by the Committee constituted
under Rule 5 (2) be entitled to the scale of Executive Engineer (Spl. Grade). Also officers who may already be in the
scale of Sr. A.E. (Spl. Grade) shall on their selection and promotion to a regular post of Executive Engineer be entitled
automatically to scale of Executive Engineer (Spl. Grade).
(b)
Selection to the post of Executive Engineer shall be made from amongst permanent Assistant engineers who have
completed not less that 7 years service as Assistant Engineer (including the services as A.E.E./Sr. A.E./ Sr. A.E. (Spl.
Grade) on July 1 of the year in which selection is made :
Provided however, that Sr. A.E. (Spl. Grade) on promotion as Executive Engineer shall be allowed the scale of
Executive Engineer (Spl. Grade).
(c)
Eligibility for the scale of Sr. Asstt. Engineer. - Officers as completing 9 years of Service as A.E./ A.E.E. (combined or
isolated as the case may be) on 1.7.1979 or thereafter shall as being found fit and deserving otherwise and if not
already promoted in the meanwhile to the regular posts of E.E. be entitled to the scale of Sr. A.E. and designated as
such :
Provided further that-
(1)
Only those A.Es. will be eligible to the scale of Sr. A.E. and promotion to the Post of E.Es. who have passed
Professional Part I and Language examination as prescribed by the Board for officers of U.P. State Electricity Board
whether under the State Government or under the Board;
(2)
In case permanent officers for the post of Executive Engineer are not available for consideration for any reasons,
officers who have completed the required period of service even though temporary or officiating may be considered for
the post;
(3)
The Selection Committee may for special reasons to be recorded relax any requirement under the rule in respect of
length of service/requisite experience as the case may be.
(d)
Eligibility for the scale of Sr. Asstt. Engineer (Special Grade). - Officers on completion of 5 years in the scale of Sr.
Assistant Engineer shall, on being found fit and deserving otherwise, be entitled to the scale of Sr. Assistant Engineer
Page 14/24
----- PAGE 15 -----
The U.P. State Electricity Board Services of Engineers Regulations, 1970
(Special Grade).
5.
(1)
Committee(s) to make selection. - The selection to the various posts in the cadres of the Service, shall be made by a
Selection Committee consisting of the following members :
(A)
For the posts of Chief Engineer, Additional Chief Engineer and Superintending Engineer-
(1)
All members of the Board;
(2)
Secretary to Government, U.P. Judicial Department;
(3)
Director General, Bureau of Public Enterprises, U.P. Government
[The quorum of the meeting for selection to the posts as above shall be five consisting of following :
(1)
Chairman, U.P.S.E.B.
(2)
Secretary to Govt., U.P. Finance Department.
(3)
Secretary to Govt., U.P. Judicial Department.
(4)
Director General, Bureau of Public Enterprises, U.P. Government.
(5)
Any one Member from amongst the remaining members.]
(B)
For the posts of Executive Engineers :
(i)
Chairman.
(ii)
Member appointed under Section 5 (4) (b) of Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948.
(iii)
Two other members of the Board nominated by the Chairman.
[The quorum of the meeting for selection to posts as above shall be-
(a)
Chairman
(b)
Member appointed under Section 5 (4) (b) of Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948.
(c)
One Member of two mentioned at (iii) above.]
5.
(2)
Committee to decide entitlement to the scale of Executive Engineer (Special Grade), Sr. A.E. (Special Grade) and Sr.
A.E. - For the post of Executive Engineer (Spl. Grade), Senior A.E. (Spl. Grade) and Senior A.E. the screening of
officers to determine whether or not they are fit and deserving for purposes of their entitlement to the scale of either E.E.
(Spl. Grade), Senior A.E. (Spl. Grade) or Sr. A.E. shall be carried out by the same committee as specified in 5 (B) for the
selection to the posts of Executive Engineer.
6. Criteria for Promotion. - The selection for the posts of Chief Engineer, Addi. Chief Engineer and Superintending
Engineer shall be made on the basis of 'MERIT' and suitability in all respects, while selection to the posts of Executive
Engineer and entitlement to the scale of Sr. Assistant Engineer, Sr. Assistant Engineer (Spl. Grade) and Executive
Engineer (Special Grade) shall be based on seniority subject to the rejection of the unfit.
7. Preparation of a list for selection and of selected candidates. - (1) The Selection Committee shall, keeping in view the
Page 15/24
----- PAGE 16 -----
The U.P. State Electricity Board Services of Engineers Regulations, 1970
criteria, on the basis of the selection to a particular post in the service, prepare a list of such officers as are adjusted by it
to be most suitable for promotion to that post.
(2)
(a)
The list in case of selection for the posts of Superintending Engineer and above shall be rearranged in order of seniority
in the cadre from which the selection is made. The list in the case of selection to the posts of Executive Engineer shall
be prepared in order of seniority in the cadre of Assistant Engineer.
(b)
The list in case of officers entitled to the scale of Senior Assistant Engineer (Special Grade) and Executive Engineer
(Special Grade) shall be prepared in order of seniority in the cadre of Assistant Engineers and Executive Engineers
respectively.
(c)
The Chairman shall issue appointment orders in respect of Superintending Engineer, Executive Engineers (Selection
Grade), Executive Engineers and Assistant Engineers.
(d)
The list of the officer selected for the posts above Superintending Engineers shall be placed before the Board for
approval.
(3)
The list so prepared shall be reviewed and revised every year and fresh names added to it, if necessary.
(4)
If, in the process of selection, review or revision, it is proposed to supersede any officer o,f the cadre from which the
selection is made, the Selection Committee shall record its reasons for the supersession. The reasons so recorded
shall, however, not be communicated to the officer concerned.
8. Select list and its validity. - (1) The list, as approved by the Board, shall form the 'Select List' for each category of post.
(2)
The Select List shall ordinarily be in force until it is reviewed or revised in accordance with sub-para (3) of Para 7 above :
Provided that in the event of a great lapse in the conduct or performance of duties on the part of any officer included in
the Select List', a special review of the Select List may be made at any time by the Selection Committee :
Provided further that if another selection is made within the same year, special reports about the officers eligible for
selection shall be obtained.
Appendix 'E'
[See Regulation (6)]
Representation of Scheduled Castes, etc. in public service
A. In pursuance of the provisions of clause (4) of Article 16 and of Article 335 of the Constitution, the Governor is
pleased to order that consistently with the maintenance of efficiency of administration-
(i)
the interest of the backward classes shall, in general, be in mind in making appointments; and
(ii)
there shall be a general reservation of 18 per cent of the vacancies for members of the Scheduled Castes in making
appointments to services and posts in connection with the affairs of the State of Uttar Pradesh :
Provided that if in any one year candidates of the Scheduled Castes fail to be recruited to any service or establishment
to the extent of 18 per cent, the deficiency shall be made good in the recruitment to the service or1 establishment
concerned in the following year :
Provided further that the reservation on account of the deficiency shall not be carried forward for more than two years.
Explanation. - Till such time as the reservation of 18 per cent of the vacancies for members of the Scheduled Castes is
not completed in the cadres of the posts included in the establishment, this reservation for Scheduled Castes candidates
would be 25 per cent subject to the condition that total number of such reserved vacancies, together with the carried
forward vacancies, if any, does not exceed 45 per cent of the total vacancies, at any particular recruitment.
B. (i) Hkkjr dk lafo/kku ds vuqPNsn 335 ds v/khu vuqlwfpr tu&tkfr;ksa dks dsUnz vFkok izns'k dh lsokvksa@inksa esa
HkrhZ ds lEcU/k esa vuqlwfpr tkfr;ksa ds leku gh ekuk x;k gSA vr% Jh jkT;iky us ;g fu.kZ; fd;k gS fd bl vkns'k ds tkjh
gksus ds fnu ls vuqlwfpr tu&tkfr;ksa dks os lHkh lqfo/kk;sa] tks vuqlwfpr tkfr;ksa ds vH;fFkZ;ksa dks izkIr gSa] ;Fkk&  (1) 
Page 16/24
----- PAGE 17 -----
The U.P. State Electricity Board Services of Engineers Regulations, 1970
lsokvksa esa vkj{k.k]  (2)  vf/kdre vk;q&lhek esa NwV] rFkk  (3)  yksd lsok vk;ksx }kjk vk;ksftr izfr;ksfxrkRed
ijh{kkvksa@p;uksa dh Qhl esa NwV nh tk;A
(ii)
Hkfo"; esa vuqlwfpr tu&tkfr;ksa ds lnL;ksa dks jkT; lsokvksa@inksa esa nks izfr'kr vkj{k.k izkIr jgsxk vkSj HkrhZ gsrq
fu/kkZfjr vf/kdre vk;q&lhek esa 5 o"kZ dh NwV nh tk;sxhA yksd lsok vk;ksx }kjk vk;ksftr izfr;ksfxrkRed ijh{kkvksa ds
lEcU/k ls yh tkus okyh ijh{kk@lk{kkRdkj dh ,d frgkbZ Qhl yh tk;k djsxhA
(iii)
vkjf{kr fjfDr;ksa ds fy, i;kZIr la[;k esa vuqlwfpr tu&tkfr;ksa ds mi;qZDr vH;fFkZ;ksa ds izkIr u gksus ij ,slh fjfDr;ksa dks
vukjf{kr fjfDr;ksa leku le>dj HkrhZ mlh leku dh tk;sxh fdUrq HkrhZ us vuqorhZ voljksa ij vxzsuhr  (carry forward)  dh
tk;sxhA bl izdkj] vkjf{kr fjfDr;ksa dks vuqlwfpr tu&tkfr;ksa ds vH;fFkZ;ksa ds fy;s ikWap lky dh vof/k rd miyC/k j[kk tk;sxkA
rRi'pkr~ bu fjfDr;ksa dks vukjf{kr le>k tk;sxkA
Appendix 'F'
[See sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 13]
Regulations for the Medical Examination of Candidates for Recruitment as Trainee Engineers
1. To be passed as fit for recruitment a candidate must be in good mental and bodily health and free from any physical
defect likely to interfere with the efficient performance of the duties of Assistant Engineers.
2. In the matter of the correlation of age, height and chest girth of candidates, it is left to the Medical Board to use
whatever correlation figures are considered most suitable as a guide in the examination of the candidates.
3. The candidate's height will be measured as follows. He will remove his shoes and be placed against the standard with
his feet together and the weight thrown on the heels and not on the toes or outer side of the feet. He will stand erect
without rigidity and with the heels, calves, buttocks and shoulders touching the standard, the chin will be depressed to
bring the vertex of the head level under horizontal bar and the height will be recorded in metres and centimetres. No
fixed limit of height is, however, enforced.
4. The candidate's chest will be measured as follows :
He will be made to stand erect with his feet together and to raise his arms over his head. The tape will be so adjusted
round the chest that its upper edge touches the inferior angles of the shoulder blade behind, and its lower edge upper
parts of the nipples in front. The arms will then be taken that the shoulders are not thrown upwards or backwards so as
to displace the tape. The candidate will then be directed to take a deep inspiration several times and the maximum
expansion of the chest will be carefully noted.
The minimum and maximum will then be recorded in centimeters 84-89, 85-92.
In recording the measurements, fractions of less than half centimetre should not be noted.
5. The candidate will also be weighed and his weight recorded in kilogram. Fractions of less than half a kilogram should
not be noted.
6. (a) The examination for determining the acuteness of vision includes two tests; one for distance, the other for near
vision, Snellen's test types will be used for the test for distance vision, without glasses at a distance of 6 meters and for
the test for near vision, without glasses at any distance selected by the candidates. The standards of the minimum
acuteness of vision which will be used for guidance in the examination of a candidate are as follows :
Standard I
Right eye
Left eye
Distant vision-V-6/6
V-6/6
Near vision-Reads, 0.6
Reads 0.6
Standard II
Better eye
Worse eye
Distant vision-V-6/6
V-without glasses, not below 6/6 and after correction with
glasses not below 6/24.
Near Vision-Reads, 0.6
Page 17/24
----- PAGE 18 -----
The U.P. State Electricity Board Services of Engineers Regulations, 1970
Read I.
Standard III
Better eye
Worse eye
Distant vision V, without glasses not below 6/24 and after
correction with glasses not below 6/6.
V, without glasses-not below 6/24 after correction with
glasses-not below 6/12
Near vision-Reads, 0.8
Read I.
(b)
Each eye must have a field of vision as tested by hand movement.
(c)
Squint or any morbid condition of the eye or of the lids or of either eye liable to the risk of aggravation on recurrence will
cause the rejection of the candidate.
(d)
Each eye will be examined separately and the lids must be kept wide open during the test.
(e)
Inability to distinguish the principal colours will not be regarded a cause for rejection, but the fact will be noted in the
proceeding and the candidate will be informed.
(f)
The degree of acuteness of vision of all candidates for Appointments will be entered in the proceedings in the following
manner :
V.R.
------------
with glasses
------------
Reads.....
V.L.
------------
with glasses
------------
Reads.....
(g)
In cases of serious abnormality the opinion of an ophthalmic specialist should be obtained.
7. The urine (passed in presence of the examiner) should be examined and the result recorded.
8. The following additional points should be observed :
That the candidate's hearing in each ear is good and that there is no sign of disease of the ear.
A candidate who can hear a forced whisper at a distance of 3 metres with his back towards the examiner should be
considered fit. Each of his ears should be tested separately, the other being plugged with oiled wool for the time being.
When any defect is found it must be noted in the certificate and the medical examiner should state his opinion whether
or not is likely to interfere with the efficient performance of the duties which will be required of the candidate. If the
condition is remediable by operation it should be so stated.
Form of Declaration as to Health to be Completed by Candidates Examined by Medical Board
Medical Examination by Medical Board
Statement by candidate for appointment as ...................................
The candidate must make the statement required below prior to his examination by a Medical Board, and must sign the
declaration appended thereto in the presence of that Board :
1. Name in full (in block letters)...............................................
2. Place of Birth................................................................
3. Age and date of birth.........................................................
Page 18/24
----- PAGE 19 -----
The U.P. State Electricity Board Services of Engineers Regulations, 1970
4. Particulars concerning family :
Father's age if living and state of health
Father's age at death and cause of death
Number of brothers living, their ages and state
of health
Number of brothers dead, their ages at death, and
cause of death
1
2
3
4
Mother's age, if living and state of health
Mother's age at death and cause of death
Number of sisters living, their ages and state of
health
Number of sisters dead, their ages at death, and
cause of death
5
6
7
8
5. Have any of your near relations suffered from (consumption, scrofula, cancer, asthma, fits epilepsy, insanity or any
other nervous disease) ?............
6. Have you ever been abroad ? If so, where and for what periods ?
7. Have you ever served in the Navy, Army, Air Force or in any Government Department ? If so, indicate post/period
.................................
8. Have you ever been examined - (a) for Life Insurance or/and (b) by any Government Medical Officer of State, Civil or
Military ? If so, state details, and with what result ? .....................................................
9. Have you ever-
(a)
had small-pox, intermittent or any other fever, enlargement or suppuration of glands, spitting of blood, asthma,
inflammation of lungs, pleurisy, heart disease, fainting attacks, rheumatism, appendicitis, epilepsy, insanity, or other
disease, nervous disease, discharge from ear or other disease of ear, syphilis, gonorrohea, or
..........................................................................
(b)
had any other disease or injury which required confinement to bed or medical or surgical treatment, or
....................................
(c)
undergone any surgical operation; or...................................
(d)
Suffered from any illness, wound or injury sustained while on active service during war ...................................................
10. Have you rupture ? ..................................................................................................................
11. Have you varicocele, varicose veins or piles ...............................
12. Is your vision in each eye good ? Do you wear spectacles ? (Candidates who wear spectacles are requested to bring
the prescription of their glasses with them) ............................................................
13. Is your hearing in each ear good ?.........................................
14. Have you any congenital or acquired malformation, defect or deformity ?
.........................................................................
15. When were you last vaccinated ?............................................
16. Is there any further matter concerning your health not covered by the above questions which should be
communicated to the Medical Board ?
Page 19/24
----- PAGE 20 -----
The U.P. State Electricity Board Services of Engineers Regulations, 1970
Declaration of Candidate
(To be signed in presence of Medical Board)
I declare all the above answers to be to the best of my belief, true and correct.
I have revealed without reservation as above all circumstances within my knowledge that concern my health and fitness
for the appointment for which I am a candidate.
I am fully aware that by wilfully suppressing any information I shall incur the risk of not obtaining the appointment or of
losing it, if granted.
Signed in presence.......................
Date......................
................................................
Candidate's Signature
Chairman of Medical Board
Report of Medical Board
Questions
Answers
Remarks
1.
Has the declaration above been signed by the candidate.
?..........
2.
Are there any evidences of malformation congenital or
acquired ?
?..........
3.
Is he free from scars and has he the full use of all his
limbs ?
?..........
4.
Are there any indications of decided each-ectic or diathetic
state of constitution
?..........
5.
Has the candidate been satisfactorily vaccinated within the
last seven years ?
?..........
6.
Are there any signs of disease of the nervous system ?
?..........
7.
Is the hearing good ?
?..........
8.
Is the sight good ?
?..........
9.
Is the speech good as regards articulation?
?..........
10.
Are there any signs of diseases of the bones, joints or parts
connected therewith.
?..........
Page 20/24
----- PAGE 21 -----
The U.P. State Electricity Board Services of Engineers Regulations, 1970
11.
Is there any important application of skin ?
?..........
12.
Are the heart and arteries healthy ?
?..........
13.
Has the candidate haemorrohoids, varicocele or other
affections of veins ?
?..........
14.
Is there any evidence of disease of the respiratory organs ?
?..........
15.
Are there any signs of disease of the digestive organs ? Are
the tooth seriously decayed or otherwise defective?
?..........
16.
Is the candidate free from rupture ?
?..........
17.
Is there any indication of disease of the genital organs ?
?..........
18.
Is the urine free from (1) albumen, (2) sugar ? Is the urine
otherwise normal ?
?..........
19.
Is there anything in the health of the candidate likely to
render him unfit for the efficient discharge of the duties of
.............. ?
?..........
20.
Do you consider the candidate in all respects qualified for
the efficient and continuous discharge of the duties of
........... ?
?..........
Date................
.......................................................................
Signature of Chairman of Medical Board
Appendix 'G'
[See clause (c) of sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 16]
Form of Declaration
(A)
(For those who do not own any immovable property)
I hereby declare that I have no immovable property. If I hereafter acquire any immovable property, I will declare the fact
within one month of the date on which accrual of the Property comes to my knowledge.
Signature.........................
Designation.....................
Date.................................
(B)
Page 21/24
----- PAGE 22 -----
The U.P. State Electricity Board Services of Engineers Regulations, 1970
(For those who own immovable property)
I hereby declare that I possess immovable property as under :
Landed Property
Land held in
Area in Acres
Acquired or ancestral if acquired, date of
acquisition
Annual Revenue
Estimated Value
Remarks
District
Tahsil
Village
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
House Property
Land held in
Area in Acres
Acquired or ancestral if acquired, date of
acquisition
Whether used for residential purpose or left out
on hire
Annual Revenue
Estimated Value
Remarks
District
Tahsil
Village
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
If I acquire any more immovable property in future. I will declare the fact in the above form within one month of the date
on which accrual of the property comes to my knowledge.
Signature.........................
Designation.....................
Date.................................
N.B. - Immovable property includes house or landed property held under a mortgage or a lease.
Property held or managed by or on behalf of an officer's wife or other member of his family, joint or living with or in any
way dependent on him is for the purpose of the declaration considered to be held or managed by the officer himself.
Page 22/24
----- PAGE 23 -----
The U.P. State Electricity Board Services of Engineers Regulations, 1970
(C)
(For those who do not have any shares or investments)
I hereby declare that I do not own any shares or other investments. If I hereafter acquire any shares or make other
investments, I will declare the fact in the quinquennial declaration for the period concerned.
Signature.........................
Designation.....................
Date.................................
(D)
(For those who own shares or have other investment)
I hereby declare that I possess shares and investments as under :
Shares
Sl. No.
Particulars
Date of acquisition
Value of each share
Number of shares held
Total value of shares
Remarks
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
Investment
Sl. No.
Particulars
Date of making investment
Value
Remarks
1
2
3
4
5
I acquire further shares or make other investment, I will declare the fact in the quinquennial declaration for the period
concerned.
Signature.... Designation Date..........
Appendix 'H'
[See clause (d) of sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 16]
Oath of Allegiance
I hereby solemnly declare that during the tenure of my service with the U.P. State Electricity Board, I shall always apply
myself loyally and faithfully to the Service of the Board and that I shall always maintain absolute secrecy of the affairs
thereof and shall not divulge any information which I shall come across in the course of the performance of my duties or
otherwise.
Signature.........................
Designation.....................
Date.................................
[Substituted by Notification No. 276-Reg.-23/SEB-94-5-Reg.-88, dated 8.11.1994.]
[Substituted by Notification No. 276-Reg. 23/SEB-94-5-Reg. 88, dated 8.11.1994.]
Page 23/24
----- PAGE 24 -----
The U.P. State Electricity Board Services of Engineers Regulations, 1970
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 24/24