
----- PAGE 1 -----
The U.P. Promotion By Selection In Consultation With Public Service Commission (Procedure)...
The U.P. Promotion By Selection In Consultation With Public Service
Commission (Procedure) Rules, 1970
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/86326179/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Uttar Pradesh - Act
The U.P. Promotion By Selection In Consultation With Public Service Commission (Procedure) Rules, 1970
UTTAR PRADESH
India
The U.P. Promotion By Selection In Consultation With Public Service Commission (Procedure) Rules, 1970
Rule
THE-U-P-PROMOTION-BY-SELECTION-IN-CONSULTATION-WITH-PUBLIC-SERVICE-COMMISSION-PROCEDURE-
RULES-1970 of 1970
Published on 6 October 1970
Commenced on 6 October 1970
[This is the version of this document from 6 October 1970.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The U.P. Promotion By Selection In Consultation With Public Service Commission (Procedure) Rules, 1970
Published Vide Notification No. 42/4/66 - Apptt. (b), dated 06.10.1970.
In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution, the Governor is pleased to make the
following rules :
Part I ? Preliminary
1.
Short title and commencement
Page 1/11
----- PAGE 2 -----
The U.P. Promotion By Selection In Consultation With Public Service Commission (Procedure)...
. - (1) These rules may be called the Uttar Pradesh Promotion by Selection in Consultation with Public Service
Commission (Procedure) Rules, 1970.
(2)
They shall come into force at once.
2.
Extent of application
. - These rules shall apply to all services and posts in connection with the affairs of Uttar Pradesh to which recruitment
by promotion is required to be made by selection in consultation with the Uttar Pradesh Public Service Commission
otherwise than on the results of a competitive examination.
3.
Overriding effect of these Rules
. - The provisions of these rules shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith in any service rules in
force immediately before the commencement of these rules.
4.
Definitions
. - In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires :
(a)
'appointing authority' in relation to any service or post means the authority empowered to make appointments to that
service or post, and in the case of the Governor being the appointing authority includes the Chief Secretary to
Government or the Secretary to Government in the Department concerned.
(b)
'Commission' means the Uttar Pradesh Public Service Commission;
(c)
'Government' means the Government of Uttar Pradesh;
(d)
'Governor' means the Governor of Uttar Pradesh;
(dd)
[* * *]
[Delete by Notification No. 15/66/81-Ka-I, dated 24.07.1987.]
(e)
'Service rules' means rules, regulations or Government orders regulating recruitment to, or the conditions of service of
persons appointed to, any service or post in connection with the affairs of Uttar Pradesh;
(f)
'year of recruitment' means the period of twelve months beginning from the first day of July of a calendar year.
Part II ? Criteria For Promotion
5.
Criteria for promotion
. - (1) Where any service rules provide either 'strict merit' or 'primarily on merit' or 'rigorous selection on merit from the
whole field of eligibility' or 'strictly on merit' or 'seniority counting where merits are equal' or any such other criterion
howsoever expressed, as lays primary stress on merit on the basis of selection for promotion, the criterion to be followed
on and after the commencement of these rules shall be 'merit'.
(2)
Where any service rules provide either 'seniority' or 'seniority-cum-fitness' or 'seniority subject to the rejection of the unfit'
or any such other criterion, howsoever expressed, as lays primary stress on seniority on the basis of selection for
promotion, the criterion to be followed on and after the commencement of these rules shall be 'seniority subject to the
rejection of the unfit.
(3)
In all cases in which no service rules exist or in which the service rules do not lay down clearly which of two criteria for
promotion mentioned in sub-rules (1) and (2) is to be followed, such criterion of the two shall be followed as may be
decided upon by the Governor in consultation with the Commission.
[6. Other conditions of eligibility. - (1) Nothing in these rules shall affect any provisions in any service rule in respect of
Page 2/11
----- PAGE 3 -----
The U.P. Promotion By Selection In Consultation With Public Service Commission (Procedure)...
the conditions of eligibility for promotion relating to age. educational or technical qualifications, nature of experience or
length of service except to the extent that the relevant date with reference to which a candidate shall be deemed to have
fulfilled such conditions shall be the date of commencement of the year of recruitment.]
[Substituted by Notification No. 42/4/1966-3, dated 04.07.1972.]
(2)
In the absence of any provision in the service rules in respect of the conditions of eligibility as aforesaid, the said
conditions shall be such as may be determined by the Governor in consultation with the Commission.
(3)
[* * *]
[Delete by Notification No. 42/4/1966, dated 04.07.1972.]
Part III ? Procedure Of Promotion Where The Criterion Is Merit
7.
Application of this Part
- Where by virtue of the provisions of Rule 5 promotion is to be made on the criterion of merit the procedure laid down in
this Part shall be followed.
7A.
Re-arrangement of the select list
- [* * *]
[Rules 7-A and 7-B omitted by Notification No. 15/66/81-Ka-I, dated 24.04.1987. Prior to omission, they stood as under:
'7-A. Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules, but subject to proviso to Rule 18, the names of candidates on
the select list appointed in temporary or officiating vacancies prior to the date of issue of this notification shall be
rearranged in order of seniority. 7-B. The candidates of the Select List as rearranged in accordance with Rule 7-A, shall
be appointed against substantive vacancies in preference to any candidate selected in accordance with the provisions of
these rules.]
7B.
Appointment from select list
- [* * *]
[Rules 7-A and 7-B omitted by Notification No. 15/66/81-Ka-I, dated 24.04.1987. Prior to omission, they stood as under:
'7-A. Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules, but subject to proviso to Rule 18, the names of candidates on
the select list appointed in temporary or officiating vacancies prior to the date of issue of this notification shall be
rearranged in order of seniority. 7-B. The candidates of the Select List as rearranged in accordance with Rule 7-A, shall
be appointed against substantive vacancies in preference to any candidate selected in accordance with the provisions of
these rules.]
8.
Preparation of eligibility list
. - The appointing authority shall prepare a list of the senior most eligible candidates containing names, as far as
possible, three times the number of vacancies subject to the minimum of eight
Provided that, if recruitment is to be made for vacancies occurring during more than one year of recruitment, separate
eligibility list will be prepared in respect of each such year and in such a case while preparing the eligibility list for second
and subsequent years of recruitment, the number of candidates to be included in the eligibility list shall be as follows -
(a)
for the second year. - The number according to said proportion plus the number of vacancies in the first year;
(b)
for the third year. - The number according to the said proportion plus the number of vacancies in the first and second
year and so on ;
Provided further that candidates who are not considered suitable, prima facie, for promotion shall not be taken into
account in calculating the said proportion and a note to the effect that they are not so considered shall be added against
their names.
Substituted by Notification No. 15/LXVI/81-Ka-1-2012, dated 08.05.2012, published in the U.P. Gazette, Extraordinary,
Part 4, Section Ka, dated 08.05.2012.
Prior to substitution, it stood as under :
Page 3/11
----- PAGE 4 -----
The U.P. Promotion By Selection In Consultation With Public Service Commission (Procedure)...
8. Preparation of eligibility list- The appointing authority shall prepare three lists to be called the eligibility lists, of the
seniormost eligible candidates from each of the category namely, General, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes,
separately, in the light of vacancies available for each of the said categories containing names as far as possible, three
times the number of vacancies subject to the minimum of eight:
Provided that if recruitment is to be made for vacancies occurring during more than one year of recruitment, separate
eligibility lists will be prepared in respect of each such year and in such a case while preparing the eligibility list for
second and subsequent years of recruitment, the number of candidates to be included in the eligibility list shall be as
follows :
(a) for the second year. - the number according to said proportion plus the number of vacancies in the first year;
(b) for the third year. - the number according to the said proportion plus the number of vacancies in the first and second
year and so on :
Provided further that the candidates who are not considered suitable, prima facie, for promotion shall not be taken into
account in calculating the said proportion and a note to the effect that they are not so considered shall be added against
their names :
Provided also that if, in a year of recruitment, no vacancy is available for Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes but a
person belonging to Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes, as the case may be is entitled to be included, by virtue of
his seniority, in the eligibility list of the general category candidates, such person shall also be included in the eligibility
list of General category candidates.
9.
Sending of list to the Commission
. - The appointing authority shall forward to the Commission the eligibility list or lists together with the gradation list of all
persons within the field of eligibility and the character rolls of the candidates included in the eligibility list or lists and also
intimate to it the numbers of different types of vacancies taken into account for the purpose of preparing the list or lists.
10.
Revision of eligibility list
. - If in any case the Commission feels that the requisite number of suitable candidates may not be available from
amongst those whose names are included in the list or lists received by it under Rule 9, it may ask the appointing
authority to include therein the names and character roll of such larger number of the seniormost or of all eligible
candidates, as it thinks fit and the appointing authority shall notwithstanding anything contained in Rule 8, revise the list
or lists accordingly.
11.
Selection Committee
. - A Selection Committee consisting of the following shall be constituted by the appointing authority -
(i)
the Chairman or Member representing the Commission who will be the Chairman of the Committee;
(ii)
the appointing authority; and
(iii)
a senior officer of that or any other department nominated by the Government, provided that where the appointing
authority is the Governor, the Head of that department shall ordinarily be nominated under this clause.
12.
Fixing of date for selection
. - (1) The appointing authority shall in consultation with the Commission fix a date for selection :
Provided that the process of selection may spread over the dates more than once.
(2)
In case the Commissioner or the appointing authority considers it necessary that all or any of the candidates included in
the eligibility list or lists should be interviewed by the Selection Committee, the appointing authority shall call such
candidates or candidate, as the case may be, for the purpose on the aforesaid date or dates.
(3)
The Selection Committee shall in each case consider the character rolls of the candidates and may consider any other
factor relevant in its opinion.
Page 4/11
----- PAGE 5 -----
The U.P. Promotion By Selection In Consultation With Public Service Commission (Procedure)...
13.
Select list
. - The Selection Committee shall prepare two lists, in order of merit, namely select list containing candidates
recommended for substantive appointment against the permanent vacancies intimated to the Commission under Rule 9.
Provided that if recruitment is made for vacancies occurring during more than one year of recruitment, the selection in
respect of each such year shall be made from the eligibility list prepared for that year. In such a case the names of
candidates selected against vacancies of one year will be excluded from the eligibility list or lists of subsequent year or
years, as the case may be, before making the selection from eligibility lists of the second and subsequent years.
Substituted by Notification No. 15/66/81-Ka-I, dated 20.05.1992.
Prior to substitution, it stood as under :
13. Lists A and B.- (1) The Selection Committee shall prepare two lists in order of merit as follows namely :
(i) List A - Containing names of candidates recommended for substantive appointment against the permanent vacancies
intimated to the Commission under Rule 9;
(ii) List B - Containing names of candidates recommended for temporary or officiating appointments intimated to the
Commission under Rule 9 as well as the names of candidates, if any, carried over on review from pending List B in
accordance with sub-rule (2) of Rule 16 :
Provided that if recruitment is made for vacancies occurring during more than one year of recruitment, the selection in
respect of each such year shall be made from the eligibility list prepared for that year. In such a case the names of
candidate selected against vacancies of one year will be excluded from the eligibility list or lists of subsequent year or
years, as the case may be, before making the selection from the eligibility list of the second and subsequent years.
(2) Notwithstanding anything in sub-rule (1) List A need not be prepared in case the number of permanent vacancies
does not exceed the number of candidates of the Select List (as rearranged in accordance with Rule 7-A) or of List 'B'
remaining to be absorbed in permanent vacancies.
14.
Commission's approval
. - The Commission shall consider the recommendations of the Selection Committee and thereafter send the select lists
as approved to the appointing authority.
15.
Re-arrangement of select list in order of seniority
. - The appointing authority shall re-arrange the select lists in order of seniority.
Substituted by Notification No. 15/66/81-Ka-I, dated 20.05.1992.
Prior to substitution, it stood as under;
15. Rearrangement of each list in order of seniority.- Subject to the provisions of sub-rule
(1) and the proviso to sub-rule (2) of Rule 16, the appointing authority shall rearrange each of the Lists A and B in order
of seniority.
16.
Duration of lists
. - [* * *] [[Omitted by Notification No. 15/66/81-Ka-1, dated 24.04.1987. Prior to omission, it stood as under :
'16. Duration of Lists. - (I) The names of candidates, included in List A, for whom permanent vacancies cannot be found
during the year of recruitment shall, at the end of the year, be transferred to the top of List B in the order in which their
names appear in List A as rearranged under Rule 15. (2) The names of candidates included in List B for whom
vacancies cannot be found during the year shall be reviewed at the time of every succeeding selection and in case the
Selection Committee constituted for the succeeding year of recruitment considers that the work or conduct or any
candidate since preceding selection justifies it may remove his name from that list. Provided that candidates who are
selected for List B for the first time shall be placed below those already on the List.]]
17.
Appointment from select list
. - Candidates included in select list shall be appointed against vacancies as notified to the commission under Rule 9, in
the order in which their names appear in the list as re-arranged under Rule 15.
[Provided that if it appears to the appointing authority at any time during the period of probation that a Government
servant appointed in substantive vacancy has failed to give satisfaction, it may without assigning any reason revert him
Page 5/11
----- PAGE 6 -----
The U.P. Promotion By Selection In Consultation With Public Service Commission (Procedure)...
to the post from which he was promoted.
Provided further that the select list of a year of recruitment shall be utilised only for vacancies of that year of
recruitment.]
[Added by Notification No. 15/66/91-Ka-1, dated 20.05.1992.]
18.
Appointment from List 'B'
. - [* * *]
[Omitted by Notification. No. 15/66/81-Ka-1, dated 20.05.1992. Prior to omission, it stood as under : '18. Appointment
from List B - Subject to the provisions of sub-rule (2) of Rule 17 candidates included in List B shall be appointed in the
order in which their names appear in the List as rearranged under Rule 15 against temporary or officiating vacancies
and after List A is exhausted also against permanent vacancies : Provided that if it appears to the appointing authority at
any time that a Government Servant appointed against a temporary or officiating vacancy has not made sufficient use of
his opportunities or has otherwise failed to give satisfaction, it may revert him to the post from which he was promoted
without assigning any reason.]
19.
Absorption of List B candidates in substantive vacancies
. - [* * *]
[Omitted by Notification No. 15/66/81-Ka-1, dated 24.04.1987. Prior to omission, it stood as under: '19. Absorption of List
B candidates in substantive vacancies - Subject to the provisions of Rule 18, candidates remaining in List B shall be
appointed against fresh substantive vacancies in preference to any candidate selected for List A at the succeeding year
of recruitment for the first time]
Part IV ? Procedure Of Promotion
Where the Criterion is Seniority subject to the rejection of the Unfit
20.
Application of this Part
- Where by virtue of the provisions of Rule 5, promotion is to be made on the criterion of seniority subject to the rejection
of the unfit, the procedure laid down in this Part shall be followed.
21.
Preparation of eligibility list
(1)
Except as otherwise provided in Rule 22, the appointing authority shall prepare three lists to be called the eligibility list of
the senior most, eligible candidates from each of the categories namely General, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled
Tribes, separately, in the light of vacancies available for each of the said sections containing names so far as may be in
the following proportion :
For 1 to 5 vacancies. - 2 times the number of vacancies subject to a minimum of 5.
For over 5 vacancies. - 1.5 times the number of vacancies subject to a minimum of 10.
(2)
The provisions contained in proviso to Rule 8 shall mutatis mutandis apply in preparing an eligibility list under this rule.
(3)
The rest of the procedure prescribed in Part III shall mutatis mutandis apply to promotion made under this Part except
that the select list referred to in Part III shall be prepared by the Selection Committee in order of seniority subject to the
rejection of the unfit.
Substituted by Notification. No. 15/LXV?1-Ka-1-2012 dated 23.07.2007, published in the U.P. Gazette, Extraordinary,
Part 4, Section Ka, dated 23.07.2007 (w.e.f. 23.07.2007).
Prior to substitution, it stood as under :
21. Preparation of eligibility list- (1) Except as otherwise provided in Rule 22, the appointing authority shall prepare three
lists to be called the eligibility list of the senior-most, eligible candidates from each of the categories namely General,
Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, separately, in the light of vacancies available for each of the said sections
containing names so far as may be in the following proportion :
For 1 to 5 vacancies - Two times the number of vacancies subject to a minimum of 5.
For over 5 vacancies - One time the number of vacancies subject to a minimum of 10.
Page 6/11
----- PAGE 7 -----
The U.P. Promotion By Selection In Consultation With Public Service Commission (Procedure)...
Provided that if, in a year of recruitment, no vacancy is available for scheduled castes or scheduled tribe, as the case
may be, is entitled to be included, by virtue of his seniority, in the eligibility list of the general category candidates, such
person shall also be included in the eligibility list of general category candidates.
22.
Power to dispense with Selection Committee in certain cases
- Notwithstanding anything in Rule 21 if in any case the number of vacancies to be filled is small, and the appointing
authority considers the seniormost candidate or candidates clearly fit for promotion and accordingly no supersession in
involved, the commission may, if it agrees with the view of the appointing authority, approve the proposal straightaway.
In that case no Selection Committee need be constituted and the candidate so approved shall be deemed to have been
duly selected for promotion.
Appendix 'B'
(See rule 21)
Programme of training and the syllabus and the rules for the departmental examination of directly recruited officers
belonging to the U.P. Co-operative and Panchayat Audit Service.
Programme of Training for directly recruited Regional Audit Officers as prescribed in G.O. No. AST-4174/X- 308(2)-69,
dated August 30, 1971:
1.
Auditors Training School
...
4 monthsTheoretical Training.
2.
In the office of the Chief Audit Officer
...
15 days.
3.
In the office of the Regional Audit Officer
...
2 months.
4.
With the audit party auditing the accounts of the top-most
institutions in the district.
...
15 days.
5.
In the office of the Director, Panchayat Raj, U.P.
...
1 week.
6.
In the office of some District Panchayat Raj Officer.
...
1 week.
7.
In the office of the Cane Commissioner
...
1 week.
8.
In the office of the Director of Industries, U.P.
...
1 week.
9.
In the office of the District Industries Officer.
Page 7/11
----- PAGE 8 -----
The U.P. Promotion By Selection In Consultation With Public Service Commission (Procedure)...
...
1 week.
Notes. - (i) During the period of training of two months in the office of the Regional Audit Officer, the trainees will be
required to audit some small societies and during the said period they will also be attached with a district treasury for a
week.
(ii)
The programme of training should be so fixed that the training could be given in the minimum number of places with
minimum expenditure by way of travelling allowance. For instance, at Lucknow the training should be given continuously
in the office of Chief Audit Officer, Regional Audit Officer, Cane Commissioner, Director, Panchayat Raj. District
Industries Officer and District Panchayat Raj Officer.
On completion of theoretical and practical training the directly recruited Regional Audit Officers shall have to pass a
Departmental Examination. The officers will be examined in the following subjects:
I - Co-operation-History and General Principles.
II - Co-operative Law and procedure and other laws.
III - Financial Accounts and other Rules.
IV - Banking, General and Co-operative.
V - Book-keeping and Accountancy.
VI - Auditing.
VII - The U.P. Panchayat Raj Act and Rules and the U.P. Sugar Cane Act and Rules.
The Syllabus of the examination in these subjects will be as follows:
Subject I - Co-operation, History and General Introductory.
(I)
Main features-Satisfaction of a common economic need- Voluntary association-Democratic management equitable
distribution of benefits-Various definitions.
(II)
Principles of Co-operation.
(III)
Difference between working of a co-operative society and joint stock company-benefits of co-operation in comparison
with capatalistic joint stock concerns.
History of Cooperative Movement in India
(I)
Co-operative Societies Act of 1904, of 1912 and of 1965, Expansion of the movement after co-operation became a
provisional subject.
Co-operatives under the war-time and post-war economy.
Different kinds of Co-operative Institutions
(1)
Short time credit Village banks, primary societies, urban banks, Central financing agencies, apex banks, relations with
other financing agencies and the Reserve Bank.
(2)
Long term co-operative credit-need for formation of land mortgage banks in India-Issue of debentures-Guarantees and
funds, purposes for which they advance loans.
(3)
Other types of cooperative societies.
1. Marketing societies, objects, constitution, working and functions.
2. Purchase and sale unions.
3. Central and State Co-operative Society for marketing.
4. Producers co-operatives consumer stores, farming and housing societies.
5. Large sized societies, co-operative education societies and any other type of institution of regional importance.
(4)
Supervision and Inspection:
Meaning, important duties of supervision and inspection.
Page 8/11
----- PAGE 9 -----
The U.P. Promotion By Selection In Consultation With Public Service Commission (Procedure)...
(5)
Education and propaganda.
(6)
Co-operation and State aid.
(7)
Co-operation and planning.
(8)
Re-organisation of co-operative movement in India, Reserve Bank's efforts-Constitution and working of Agriculture
Credit Department of the Reserve Bank of India.
(9)
Handicaps and achievements of co-operation in India.
Subject II - Co-operative law and Procedure and other Laws.
1. Origin and History of Co-operative legislation in India.
2. Co-operative Societies Act, 1965.
3. Sections dealing with recoveries as arrears of land revenue of the U.P. Zamindari Abolition and Land Reforms Act.
4. Civil Procedure Code, sections 34, 35, 38, 50, 64 and 145.
5. Indian Evidence Act. Sections 60, 61, 63, 65 and 123.
6. Indian Limitation Act, section 132.
7. Income Tax Act, provisions relating to co-operatives.
8. Important provisions of the [U.P. Sales Tax Act 1948.]
[Now U.P. Trade Tax Act, 1948.]
9. Regulated Market Act.
10. Debt Relief Act.
11. Payment of Bonus Act, 1965.
12. U.P. Shop and Commercial Establishment Act, 1962.
Subject III - Financial and other Rules.
(1)
Financial Hand book, Vol. II (Parts II to TV), Chapters II to V, VII to XII and Subsidiary Rules in Part III.
(2)
Financial Handbook, Vol. III, Chapters I to IV, VI and VIII.
(3)
Financial Handbook, Vol. V (Part I), Chapters I to VII and Appendices X. XIX-B and XIX-C.
(4)
U.P. General Provident Fund Rules.
(5)
U.P. Government Servants Conduct Rules.
Subject IV - Banking General and Co-operative
Part I ? General
(i)
Definition of a Bank and its importance in modern economy.
(ii)
A short account of different types of Banking institutions in India, Reserve Bank of India-State Bank of India.
(iii)
Relationship of Banker and Customer.
(iv)
Types of account holders. Steps to be taken on death, lunancy, bankruptcy and winding up.
(v)
Banking operation-Payment and collection of cheques, respective rights and duties of drawee, banker and drawer,
statutory protection in case of forged endorsement, clearing system, discounting of balls and safe custody.
(vi)
Advancement of loan to customers over draft, cash credit, secured and unsecured loan.
Page 9/11
----- PAGE 10 -----
The U.P. Promotion By Selection In Consultation With Public Service Commission (Procedure)...
(vii)
Deposits-Savings -fixed and current.
(viii)
Practical Banking in brief-Negotiable Instruments.
(ix)
Bank's balance sheet and other returns.
Part II ? Co-operative
1. The place of co-operative banking in Banking Structure.
2. Relation between Co-operative Banks and other Banking Institutions.
3. Returns of Co-operative Banks.
Subject V - Book-keeping and Accounts.
1. General:
(i)
Double entry - Definition and objects of account keeping, fundamentals of double entry, advantages of double entry,
Accounts-personal, real and nominal, rules for debit and credit.
(ii)
Books of accounts - Subsidiary and principal books, their necessity and importance.
2. Trading and Profit and Loss Account and Balance Sheet:
Trial Balance, errors, rectification, matters prior to preparation of final accounts-Adjustments and closing entries-Profit-its
distribution, Reserve and other funds including Education Fund, their use and investment, depreciation and assets.
Trading account valuation of stock in trade. Profit and loss account and its components, Balance Sheet-valuation of
fixed and floating assets.
3. Elementary principles of cost accounting.
4. Accounts pertaining to Co-operative Societies:
Books to be maintained as per Act or Rules, the difference between double entry and the system in vogue in societies.
5. Preparation and presentation of financial position for the management.
6. Miscellaneous:
Receipts and payments and income and expenditure accounts, capital and revenue, consignment and Branch Accounts.
Subject VI - Auditing.
1. Principles of auditing. - Definition, object and advantages of audit, various forms of audit (statutory, interim, concurrent
and final) -Audit Programmes. Internal checks-test audit-rights and duties of an auditor.
2. Audit of cash transactions. - Internal check as regards cash receipts and payments-vouching of receipts and
payments vouching-difference between Capital and Revenue items-vouching of Bank transactions. Petty cash
book-Verification of cash and bank balance and reconciliation statement.
3. Audit of trading transactions. - Vouching of purchase and sales journals. Return Books, cash and credit purchases
and sales, vouching of allowances against sale consignment, treatment of bad and doubtful debts.
4. Ledgers - Audit of personal and impersonal ledgers.
5. Vouching of journal and subsidiary books - Checking of fixed deposits, recurring deposits, demand drafts, ball
registers and other books.
6. Reserve general and specific.
7. Contingent liabilities. - Treatment and disclosure.
8. Loans - Vouching of different kinds of loans.
9. Bad debts - Creation of adequate reserve.
10. Profit and loss account and balance sheet - Treatment of capital profit-gross profit, net profit and distributable
profit-divisible profits.
11. Safeguards against fraud.
12. Special points in the audit of a Central Co-operative Bank and a Society - (i) How to determine financial position.
(ii)
Examination of minute book and bye-laws.
13. Audit notes of Primary Societies. - Its different questions- important circulars and other instructions regarding audit.
14. Classification of Societies.
Page 10/11
----- PAGE 11 -----
The U.P. Promotion By Selection In Consultation With Public Service Commission (Procedure)...
Subject VII - Panchayat Raj and Sugar Cane Acts and Rules
1. Uttar Pradesh Panchayat Raj Act.
2. Uttar Pradesh Panchayat Raj Rules.
3. Uttar Pradesh Sugar Cane Act, 1953 and Rules, 1954.
4. Uttar Pradesh Sugar Cane Supply Purchase Order, 1954.
5. Books and Accounts required to be maintained in Cane Cooperatives.
The time allowed for all papers will be three hours.
Note. - Examinees will not be allowed the use of copies of Acts, Rules or their commentaries and annotated copies
thereof while answering the question papers on all the above subjects.
The maximum and pass marks in each subject shall be as follows:
Maximum Marks
Pass
I.
Cooperation-History and General Principles.
100
40
II.
Cooperative Law and Procedure and other laws.
100
40
III.
Financial Account and other Rules.
100
40
IV.
Ranking General and Co-operative.
100
40
V.
Book-Keeping and Accountancy
100
50
VI.
Auditing.
100
50
VII.
U.P. Panchayat Raj Act and Rules and U.P. Sugar Cane Act and
Rules.
100
40
In order to pass the examination completely a candidate must obtain 45 per cent of marks in the aggregate. Failure in
any one subject will involve failure in the whole examination but a candidate who secures 60 per cent or more marks in
any one subject shall be exempt from appearing in that subject again.
The examination will be conducted in accordance with the provisions of Chapters I and XIII of the 'Rules for the conduct
of Departmental Examinations and the Training of Junior Officers in Uttar Pradesh'. With this modification that the
intimation about the intention of appearing at the examination, as mentioned in rule 9 (1) of the said rules will be sent to
the Principal. Officers' Training School, Naini Tal, by the officers belonging to the Uttar Pradesh Co-operative and
Panchayat Audit Service through the Chief Audit Officer, Cooperative Societies and Panchayats, Uttar Pradesh.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 11/11