
----- PAGE 1 -----
U.P. Security Prisoners Rules, 1972
U.P. Security Prisoners Rules, 1972
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/1635626/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Uttar Pradesh - Act
U.P. Security Prisoners Rules, 1972
UTTAR PRADESH
India
U.P. Security Prisoners Rules, 1972
Rule U-P-SECURITY-PRISONERS-RULES-1972 of 1972
Published on 22 January 1972
Commenced on 22 January 1972
[This is the version of this document from 22 January 1972.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
U.P. Security Prisoners Rules, 1972
Published vide Notification No. 6957-P/22-2182-70, dated 22nd January, 1972, and published in the U.P. Gazette, Part
1-Ka, dated 5th February, 1972
1.
Short title, extent and commencement.
(1)
These Rules may be called the Uttar Pradesh Security Prisoners' Rules, 1972 (hereinafter referred to as "the Rules").
(2)
They shall apply to all persons (hereinafter referred to as "Security Prisoners") ordered to be detained and committed to
a prison in Uttar Pradesh by any authority acting in exercise of the powers under Section 3 of the Maintenance of
Internal Security Act, 1971 (Act No. 26 of 1971) and shall come into force from the date of their publication in the official
Page 1/14
----- PAGE 2 -----
U.P. Security Prisoners Rules, 1972
Gazette.
(3)
Except to the extent they are modified by the following rules, all rules, relating to convicted prisoners contained in the
Uttar Pradesh Jail Manual shall also apply to security prisoners :
Provided that the Governor may direct that the provisions of these Rules shall apply in relation to any security prisoner
or any class of security prisoners with such modifications as may be specified in the direction.
2.
Definition.
- In these Rules, "Superintendent" means the officer appointed to be, or to act as, the Superintendent of the Jail or other
place in which the security prisoner is ordered to be detained.
3.
Accommodation.
- Security prisoners shall be detained in cells or association barracks, preferably the latter, and allowed to communicate
freely with each other within their enclosure, but so far as possible, shall be kept separate from other prisoners. The
Superintendent may, however, confine any particular security prisoner separately if he considers it desirable on grounds
of health or for any other reason.
4.
Classification.
(1)
Classification of security prisoners into superior or ordinary class shall be in the discretion of the detaining authority.
(2)
Where the detaining authority is the District Magistrate, the District Magistrate of the district of residence of the security
prisoner shall ordinarily make the classification. If a security prisoner is arrested in a district other than the district of his
residence, or is transferred to another district without being classified, the classification shall be made by the District
Magistrate of the district where the security prisoner for the time being detained.
5.
Diet.
- Security prisoners in the superior and ordinary classes shall be allowed diet on the scales prescribed in the Jail Manual
for convicted prisoners of the corresponding classes, vide Appendix A. Security prisoners shall not be allowed to cook
their own food.
6.
Clothing and bedding.
- Security prisoners may wear their own clothes and use their own bedding and shoes. They may also, with the
permission of the Superintendent, receive extra clothing and bedding from friends and relations.
7.
The Superintendent shall apply to any security prisoner not provided with adequate clothes and bedding such articles as
will with those already in his possession be equal to the scale prescribed for convicts of the corresponding class, vide
Appendix B.
8.
Women security prisoners in the superior and the ordinary classes shall be allowed the same scales of clothing as
convicted women prisoners of the corresponding classes.
9.
All articles of clothing and bedding supplied by the State Government shall remain the property of the State
Government. They shall not be taken away by security prisoner on release save to the extent considered necessary for
health and decency by the Superintendent in the case of a security prisoner whose own clothing and bedding are
sufficient for these purposes.
10.
Furniture.
- Furniture shall be provided to superior class security prisoners according to the scales admissible to superior class
convict, vide Appendix 6. Security prisoners of the ordinary class shall be treated as convicts of the ordinary class in this
matter.
Page 2/14
----- PAGE 3 -----
U.P. Security Prisoners Rules, 1972
11.
Utensils.
- Security prisoners may use their own utensils. The Superintendent shall supply to any security prisoner not provided
with adequate utensils such articles as will with those already in his possession, be equal to the scales allowed to
superior and ordinary classes of convicted prisoners, vide Appendix D.
12.
Toilets.
- Security prisoners in the superior and ordinary classes shall be supplied with such toilet articles as are admissible to
convicts of the corresponding classes, vide Appendix E. The Superintendent may permit a security prisoner to receive
other toilet articles at his own cost or from friends and relations. The Superintendent may withhold any articles the
supply of which he considers to be objectionable. Security prisoners in the superior class, who use tooth brush, shall
also be allowed medicated tooth powder at Government expense.
The tooth powder should be prepared according to the following prescription in some centrally located jail or jails and
distributed to various jails according to their requirements :
1
2
3
Menthol
...
85 grams
Thymol
...
85 grams
For 100 prisoners for one month.
Acid Carbolic
...
70 grams
Chalk
...
15 Kg. 550 gram
A convict barber will be available but superior class security prisoners may, if they like, use their own safety razors.
13.
Deposits.
- A security prisoner may, with the previous sanction of the Superintendent receive funds from a relative or friend to
enable him to supplement the amenities of life in jail. The maximum that can be spent by him during any calendar month
shall not exceed Rs. 15. In case of security prisoners of the superior class the District Magistrate may permit such
expenditure ordinarily up to Rs. 50 and with the State Government up to Rs. 100.
14.
Interviews.
- Every superior class security prisoner may have two interviews and every ordinary class security prisoner one
interview every month with his relatives or friends; provided that this privilege shall be subject to good conduct and may
be withdrawn or suspended by the Superintendent, if the security prisoner has been guilty of a serious breach of
discipline. Superintendents shall have full discretion to choose the place and mode of interviews, but shall see that the
prisoners and their interviews are provided with sufficient accommodation.
Note. - A prisoner may, with the permission of the Superintendent substitute a letter with reply for an interview or vice
versa.
15.
(1)
In addition to the interviews permissible under the preceding rule, a security prisoner may, with the permission of the
District Magistrate, be allowed-
(a)
Page 3/14
----- PAGE 4 -----
U.P. Security Prisoners Rules, 1972
not more than two special interviews for the settlement of his business or professional affairs ordinarily to take place
within two months of his arrest; such interviews shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of these rules as
regards place, duration and conditions of interviews, and the interview shall be strictly confined to the objects for which it
is granted;
(b)
(i)
to interview his legal adviser in connection with a proceeding in a Court of law to which the security prisoner is or will be
a party;
(ii)
to interview his legal adviser or any other person of his choice in connection with making a representation to
Government regarding his detention.
Note - Not more than one such interview shall ordinarily be allowed before the proceeding is instituted or the
representation is made.
(2)
All such interviews shall be subject to such conditions and restrictions as the Superintendent may consider necessary to
ensure security and prevent the passing of unauthorised communications unconnected with the case relating to which
the interview is granted. Where a legal adviser interviews a security prisoner in connection with making a representation
to Government or any proceeding in a Court of law about the detention of the prisoner concerned no jail official or police
officer including an officer of the Criminal Investigation Department shall be present at the interview within hearing
range.
15A.
Special provision relating to COFEPOSA detenus.
- Notwithstanding anything in Rules 14 and 15, all interviews to be allowed to persons detained under the Conservation
of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act, 1974, shall be subject to prior approval of the State
Government.
16.
No security prisoner shall be permitted to have an interview with a person other than a police officer except on the
written order of the State Government or the District Magistrate. As a general rule, the District Magistrate who has
passed the original order of detention, shall be the authority to grant or refuse an interview. The District Magistrate of the
district in which the prisoner is detained may, however, also grant or refuse an interview in exceptional cases.
17.
Ordinarily not more than three persons may interview a security prisoner at a time. The authority empowered to allow an
interview may, at his discretion, in special cases, increase the number of persons permitted at an interview.
18.
Interviews shall not last for more that an hour save with the permission in writing of the authority empowered to allow an
interview.
19.
Every person permitted to interview a security prisoner as well as the security prisoner shall be searched before and
after the interview.
20.
After the interview is over, the official present at the interview shall warn both the security prisoner and the visitor that
future interviews are liable to be prohibited if the visitor indulges in any publicity on behalf of the security prisoner.
21.
Interviews by police officers.
- Subject to the directions of the State Government, the Inspector-General of Police may, by general or special order,
authorise any police officer either singly or with another police officer and accompanied or unaccompanied by
subordinate police officers, to interview any security prisoner.
22.
The police officers so authorized shall be allowed to interview security prisoners in their cells or wards or in the ordinary
interview room without a jail official being present, on their making a written requisition to this effect to the
Superintendent at the time of the interview. In visiting the cells or wards every police officer shall be accompanied by
Page 4/14
----- PAGE 5 -----
U.P. Security Prisoners Rules, 1972
such escort as the Superintendent considers necessary for his safety. The escort, if the police officer so requires, shall
stand out of ear shot, but within sight when he is speaking to any security prisoner.
23.
Correspondence.
- Every superior class security prisoner may write two letters in a month. All letters addressed to a superior class
prisoner and received in jail will be delivered to him. Every ordinary class security prisoner may write and receive one
letter in a month. This privilege shall be subject to good conduct and may be withdrawn or postponed by the
Superintendent, if the security prisoner has been guilty of a serious breach of discipline.
Note. - A prisoner may, with the permission of the Superintendent substitute a letter with reply for an interview or vice
versa.
24.
Security prisoners may write letters to, and receive letters from, security prisoners detained in other places provided that
the contents of these letters are of a purely personal character. Such letters will be taken into account in calculating the
maximum allowed by Rule 23, they should be sent to the jail in which the addressee is detained. All letters addressed to
security prisoners in another State shall be forwarded to the State Government for transmission to that State.
25.
All letters to and from security prisoners shall be read by the Superintendent himself. He shall transmit all such letters as
are prima facie unobjectionable. Letters which are objectionable or about which he has any doubt, will be referred by
him immediately to the Superintendent of Police of the district in which the jail is located. The Superintendent of Police
shall return these letters within four days with the necessary directions for their disposal, provided that any letter
addressed either to the Central or the State Government shall be forwarded immediately to the Home Secretary to
Government for necessary action.
26.
If there is anything apparently objectionable from the point of view of jail discipline in any communication made by, or
intended to be delivered to, a security prisoner, the Superintendent or in cases referred to the Superintendent of Police,
the Superintendent of Police after consulting the Superintendent of the jail, if necessary, may delete it.
27.
Every letter forwarded to or from a security prisoner shall be initialled and dated by each officer who handles the letter.
28.
The Superintendent shall withhold all letters received by an ordinary class security prisoner in excess of the number
.permitted, retaining them for a maximum period of one month. If within that time they have not been delivered to the
prisoner in accordance with his quota, they shall be destroyed by the Superintendent.
29.
In all cases in which a letter is withhold, the security prisoner shall be informed through the Superintendent of the fact of
the retention. All letters withheld other than those withheld under Rule 28 shall be sent to the Deputy Inspector-General
of Police, Criminal Investigation Department or other officer designated by the State Government in this behalf who may
at his discretion either retain or destroy them.
30.
Telegrams may be sent at the expense of the prisoner sending them. They shall count as letters for the purpose of Rule
23 and shall pass through censorship in the same-manner as letters.
31.
Security prisoners shall attach to all their outgoing correspondence (including telegrams), a slip containing the full name
and address, and, in the case of relatives, the relationship of the addressee, and of each person mentioned in the letter
or telegram. These slips shall be sent to the Deputy Inspector-General of Police, Criminal Investigation Department or
other officer designated by the State Government in this behalf who, if he considers that the writer should not be allowed
to correspond with the addressee, shall inform the Superintendent for his future guidance.
32.
Newspapers and books.
- Security prisoners in the superior and ordinary classes shall be allowed newspapers and magazines at Government
expense in accordance with the scales admissible to convicted prisoners of the corresponding classes vide Appendix F.
33.
Page 5/14
----- PAGE 6 -----
U.P. Security Prisoners Rules, 1972
Security prisoners may select their own newspapers and periodicals or magazines provided they are not on the
prohibited list.
34.
Newspapers, periodicals and magazines should not be censored before they are supplied to security prisoners.
35.
It is desirable to encourage the use of suitable literature and, as far as practicable, facilities should be given for obtaining
it. Newspapers and Magazines other than those supplied under Rule 32 at Government expense, may be allowed at the
cost of the prisoner or his relative or friends, from outside sources provided they are not on the prohibited list. Prisoners
may borrow books from the jail library or obtain them from outside sources provided they are not prescribed. This
concession shall be withdrawn if it is found that any book has been allowed to go out of the barrack of the prisoner
concerned without the specific permission of the Superintendent. If the Superintendent has any doubt whether any
particular book is prescribed or not, he shall refer the matter to the District Magistrate.
36.
Writing materials.
- Loose paper may be supplied to security prisoners for the writing of the permissible number of letters. For other
purposes ordinary school exercise books may be purchased from the funds at their disposal under Rule 13 and the
pages shall be numbered. The extraction of leaves from such exercise books by a security prisoner shall be treated as
breach of jail discipline.
37.
Pencils, pens and ink may be allowed to security prisoners at Government expense.
38.
Transmission through Superintendent.
- No letter, newspapers, or other communication shall be transmitted to or from any security prisoner except through the
Superintendent or such other officer as the State Government may, by general or special order designate in this behalf.
39.
Washing of clothes.
- The Superintendent shall make arrangement for the washing of clothes of superior class security prisoners, provided
that any prisoner in the superior class desiring to wash his own clothes may be given 230 grams Sajji and 115 gram
washing soap weekly for the purpose. Ordinary class security prisoners shall wash their own clothes. They shall receive
Sajji on the scale admissible to ordinary class convicts.
40.
Travelling expenses.
- Travelling expenses at 2nd class rates for prisoners in the superior class and at Class III rates for prisoners in the
ordinary class or actual fare of the bus if rail journey is not available, shall be given to security prisoners on release
irrespective of whether they have sufficient money of their own or not. Journeys on transfers will also be made according
to this classification. If any security prisoner wishes to travel by a class higher than the classes indicated, he must pay,
in addition to the difference in his own fare, the difference in the fares of the escort travelling with him.
41.
Diet money.
- Security prisoners of the superior and ordinary classes shall be given diet money on their transfer or release as
prescribed for convicted prisoners of the corresponding classes, vide Paragraph 113 and 113-A respectively of the Uttar
Pradesh Jail Manual.
42.
Games and sports.
- Provision for carom draughts, chess and playing cards shall be made at the expense of the State Government. Other
indoor games may be provided at the expense of the individual security prisoners at the discretion of the
Superintendent.
43.
Provision for badminton, volley-ball and deck-tennis shall be made at the expense of the State Government where
sufficient space is available
44.
Page 6/14
----- PAGE 7 -----
U.P. Security Prisoners Rules, 1972
Punkhas.
- For security prisoners in the superior class provision shall be made for Punkhas and for jail labour to pull them between
April 15, and October 15. Such Punkhas may be provided at night also, at the request of those security prisoners who
have to sleep inside their barracks.
45.
Sleeping in the open.
- All security prisoners will ordinarily be allowed to sleep out in the open during the summer between dates to be
determined by the Inspector-General but no special arrangements like beds etc. shall be made for the purpose. The
privileges of sleeping in the open will be purely in the nature of a concession and may be refused or withdrawn for
reasons of security or on account of the misbehaviour of the prisoner concerned.
46.
Medical treatment.
- Security prisoners will ordinarily be treated by the Medical Officer of the jail. If that officer considers that it is advisable
to consult or engage an outside doctor in any case, he will refer the matter for the orders of the State Government,
through the Superintendent, except in an emergency when he may call in outside opinion on his own initiative.
47.
Serious illness.
- If a security prisoner is seriously ill, the Superintendent shall report the fact to the District Magistrate, the
Inspector-General of Prisons as the State Government and shall also inform any friend or relative of the prisoner if so
desired by him.
48.
Removal to Civil Hospital.
- If a security prisoner is seriously ill, and in the opinion of the District Magistrate and the Civil Surgeon treatment in the
Civil Hospital is essential, the prisoner may be transferred to the Civil Hospital in the manner provided in Paragraph
1058 of the Uttar Pradesh Jail Manual. In such case the Superintendent will report the fact to the State Government
through the Inspector-General of Prisons.
49.
Eye-treatment.
(1)
The eyes of a security prisoner will, ordinarily be examined by the Medical Officer of the Jail if that officer considers it
advisible to do so, the Superintendent may secure the services of an outside oculist without reference to the State
Government. A fee not exceeding Rs. 8 per visit in the case of an oculist not below the rank of Civil Surgeon and Rs. 4
in the case of others, exclusive of conveyance charges, shall be admissible for such visits.
(2)
If, upon such examination, it is recommended that the prisoner requires spectacles, either for the first time, or according
to a new prescription these shall be supplied to him at the following rates at Government cost.
For new spectacles not more than Rs. 12 per pair; and new lenses of a different power when the prisoner already has
spectacles not more than Rs. 4 per pair.
(3)
A prisoner who desires spectacles or lenses costing more than the maximum prescribed in sub-rule (2) shall himself pay
the difference in cost.
(4)
The cost of repairs or replacement of cracked or broken lenses shall be borne by the prisoner.
50.
Dental treatment.
- If, in the opinion of the Medical Officer, of the Jail, a security prisoner requires dental treatment, the Superintendent
shall make arrangements for such treatment, the cost of such treatment shall not exceed the rates prescribed in
Paragraph 104 of the Medical Manual, except that in the case of visits, a Dental Surgeon may be allowed a fee up to Rs.
8 per visit exclusive of conveyance charges for attending on such security prisoner. If more elaborate treatment is
required, such as the supply of artificial teeth, the Superintendent shall refer the case to the Inspector-General of
Prisons for the orders of the State Government.
Page 7/14
----- PAGE 8 -----
U.P. Security Prisoners Rules, 1972
51.
Allowance to dependants.
(1)
Allowance for the maintenance of the dependants of a security prisoner will only be granted in cases where the State
Government are satisfied that the detention of the prisoner in question has substantially affected the means of
subsistence of those dependants.
(2)
All applications for maintenance allowance must indicate the number and nature of the dependants and state clearly all
sources of income available for their subsistence both before and after the detention of the security prisoner.
(3)
All applications for maintenance allowance shall be sent to the District Magistrate of the district in which the security
prisoner ordinarily resides, who shall, after such enquiry as may be necessary, forward the application to the State
Government with a report on the circumstances of the dependants of the security prisoner. If the applicant is not a
resident of the Uttar Pradesh, the application shall be forwarded direct to the State Government.
52.
Examinations.
- A security prisoner shall not ordinarily be permitted to appear at examinations or to take examinations in jails.
53.
(1)
A security prisoner, who is preparing for an examination for which permission has been accorded both by the State
Government and by the authorities conducting the examination may be allowed to get prescribed books at his own cost
for studies inside the jail. For prisoners whose families are in receipt of a maintenance allowance, text-books may be
supplied at the expense of the State Government.
(2)
Pencils, pens and ink, in addition to those admissible under Rule 37 as well as exercise-books may be allowed to
prisoners preparing for an examination to the extent considered necessary by the Superintendent.
54.
Security prisoners, who want to appear privately at any examination, should themselves obtain permission to do so.
They shall for this purpose, be permitted to write and receive letters in addition to those permissible under Rule 23.
55.
Searches.
- All security prisoners and their cells and wards shall be searched not less than once a week, and oftener if the
Superintendent considers it necessary, by the Jailor, or the Deputy Jailor, as detailed by the Superintendent. Special
precautions shall be taken to make the searches through, and the fact of the search shall be noted in the Jailors Report
Book.
56.
Punishments.
(a)
The Superintendent may inflict on a security prisoner any of the punishments that he may award to a convicted prisoner
for any offence specified in Section 45 of the Prisoners Act, 1894 (IX of 1894), read with Paragraph 806 of the Uttar
Pradesh Jail Manual :
Provided that a security prisoner shall in no circumstances be punished with whipping.
(b)
If any security prisoner is guilty of any offence against prison discipline which, by reason of his having frequently
committed such offences or otherwise in the opinion of the Superintendent, is not adequately punishable by the infliction
of any punishment which he has power under Rule (a) of this rule to award to a security prisoner, the Superintendent
may forward such prisoner to the Court of the District Magistrate or of any Magistrate of the first class having jurisdiction,
together with a statement of the circumstances and such Magistrate shall thereupon enquire into and try the charge so
brought against the prisoner, and upon conviction may sentence him to imprisonment which may extend to one year :
Provided that where the act constituting the offence constitutes an offence punishable under the Indian Penal Code with
imprisonment for a term exceeding one year, nothing in this rule shall preclude the security prisoner from being tried and
Page 8/14
----- PAGE 9 -----
U.P. Security Prisoners Rules, 1972
sentenced for such latter offence :
Provided also that any such case may be transferred for inquiry and trial by the District Magistrate to any Magistrate of
the first class having jurisdiction : and
Provided further that no security prisoner shall be punished twice for the same offence.
57.
Handcuffs and fetters.
- Fetters, handcuffs and cross-bar fetters shall not be imposed for reasons of safe custody on security prisoners
travelling by road or rail unless a special requisition is made in writing by a police officer not below the rank of
Superintendent of Police.
58.
The Superintendent may at any time impose fetters on a security prisoner if he considers that there is serious danger of
the security prisoner escaping, if fetters are not imposed.
59.
Prohibited article.
- The following articles are prohibited articles :
(i)
Spirituous or fermented liquors of any kind.
(ii)
Opium, preparations of opium or intoxicating drugs.
(iii)
Implements for smoking such as hukka, chilutns, etc.
(iv)
All explosive or poisonous articles or materials for making fire or materials which would cause disfiguration
(v)
Bullion, metal, money, currency notes, valuable securities, jewellery or ornaments of any kind except those prescribed
by religion for women, and, articles of value of every description.
(vi)
Knives, arms, ropes, strings, bamboos, ladders, sticks, all materials of whatever description which are capable of being
converted into string or rope of chain, any article likely to facilitate escape, or implements of any kind.
(vii)
Any other article not expressly provided by the State Government for the health, discipline, clothing, dieting and use of
security prisoners.
60.
Miscellaneous.
- Discussion of political matters in letters or during interviews is forbidden.
61.
Security prisoners may, at their option, be allowed to do such working as may be allotted to them by the Superintendent
and may receive remuneration for their labour at such rates as the Inspector-General of Prisons may, with the approval
of the State Government, fix.
62.
All particulars relating to security prisoners shall be entered (without serial number) in the Registers of Civil Prisoners,
and all statistics of security prisoners shall be shown separately in jail returns.
63.
The playing of musical instruments is forbidden except between the hours of 12 noon to 1 p.m. and 6 p.m. to 8 p.m.
64.
The keeping of dogs is prohibited. Other pets of a harmless nature are permitted.
65.
The smoking of tobacco, cigarettes, etc. is permitted at the cost of the prisoners but pan is prohibited. Security prisoners
may receive from friends and relations smoking requisites except those forbidden under Rule 59.
66.
Non-official visitors, other than Members of the Legislature who are ex officio non-official visitors will not, except with the
Page 9/14
----- PAGE 10 -----
U.P. Security Prisoners Rules, 1972
specific permission of the District Magistrate or the State Government be permitted to visit security prisoners.
67.
All communications addressed by a security prisoner, who is a member of the State Legislature or of Parliament, to the
Speaker or Chairman of the House of which he is a member or to the Chairman of a Committee (including a Committee
of Privileges) of such House or of Joint Committee of both Houses of the State Legislature or of Parliament, as the case
may be, shall be immediately forwarded by the Superintendent of the Jail to the Government so as to be dealt with by
them in accordance with the rights and privileges of the prisoner as a member of the House to which he belongs.
68.
The provisions of the Prisoners (Attendance in Courts) Act, 1955 (Act No. XXXII of 1955) and the U. P. Prisoners
(Attendance in Courts) Rule, 1956, shall apply to appearances of security prisoners in courts.
69.
The Superintendents of the jails in which security prisoners are detained, may allow security prisoners facilities for
pursuing the hobby of gardening if desired, where arrangements can be made without undue inconvenience.
70.
Such other instructions as may be necessary for the guidance of jail officers may be issued by the Inspector-General of
Prisons with the approval of the State Government.
71.
A copy of these rules should be made available for the use of security prisoners in any place where such prisoners are
detained.
72.
These rules supersede all existing rules and orders on the subject.
Appendix A
Diet
Superior class security prisoners
Foodstuff
Diet scale for non-vegetarians
Diet scale for vegetarians
1
2
3
Wheat
350 grams
350 gram
Rice
175 grams
175 grams
Dal
55 grams
115 grams
Meat
230 grams
115 grams
Milk
230 grams
350 grams
Butter or Ghee
55 grams
70 grams
Mustard oil
15 grams
15 grams
Page 10/14
----- PAGE 11 -----
U.P. Security Prisoners Rules, 1972
Sugar
55 grams
55 grams
Tea and milk (if required)
}
15 grams
15 grams
15 grams
55 grams
Vegetables (of which not more than 230 grams may be potatoes)
230 grams
350 grams
Spices
15 grams
15 grams
Salt
30 grams
20 grams
Amchur
15 grams
10 grams
or
Chatni
10 grams
10 grams
or
Lime juice
30 grams
30 grams
Fruit
40 Paise three times a week.
40 Paise three times a week.
Fuel
1 Kg. 855 Grams.
1 Kg. 400 gms.
Ordinary class security prisoners
Foodstuff
Labouring
Non-labouring
Grain ration
350 Grams
290 Grams
Dal
30 grams
30 grams
Vegetables
115 grams
115 grams
Oil
5 grams
5 grams
Page 11/14
----- PAGE 12 -----
U.P. Security Prisoners Rules, 1972
Chillies
½ gram
½ gram
Turmeric
½ gram
½ gram
Salt
7 grams
7 grams
The following scales prescribed for the morning meal to prisoners :
(1)
Sweet dalia
Wheat 55 gram and gur 30 grams thrice a week.
(2)
Soaked boiled gram
45 grams salted (salt 2 grams, oil 1 gram and chillies ½
gram) twice a week.
(3)
Parched gram
115 grams twice a week.
Appendix B
Clothing
Superior class security prisoners
Male
Summer
Winter
Three Kurtas
Three Kurtas
Two Dhoties or Pyjamas
Two Dhoties or Pyjamas
Two drawers or tikonies
Two drawers or tikonies
Two baniains
Two baniains
Two caps or Pagris
Two caps or Pagris
Socks two pairs
Socks two pairs
One mattress
One mattress
Two towels
Two towels
One piece of cloth
One piece of cloth
One pillow
One pillow
Two pillow cases
Two pillow cases
Two bed-sheets
Two bed-sheets
One pair full slippers or Chappals
Page 12/14
----- PAGE 13 -----
U.P. Security Prisoners Rules, 1972
One pair full slippers or Chapals
One blanket
Three blankets or one quilt
One woollen coat
One pair woollen pyjamas, if required
One woollen waistcoat
Female
Two Dusuti dresses or two Garha Saries and two Garha tackets
In addition two summer scale
Two each necessary under clothes
Two flannel dresses or one woollen long-coat reaching down to
the knee
Two pairs of stockings, if required
Three blankets
One blanket
One cardigan
One pillow
Two towels
One pair of full slippers or one pair of Chappals
One Topi if required
Ordinary class security prisoners
Male
Summer
Winter
Two Kurtas
Two Kurtas
Two Dhoties or Pyjamas
Two Dhoties or Pyjamas
One cap
One cap
One tikoni
One tikoni
One Chadar
One Chadar
One towel
One towel
One blanket
Three blankets
One Janghia
One blanket coat
One Janghia
Female
Three saries
In addition to summer clothing the following:
Two Kurtas
Two Kurties
One blanket
Two towels
One pullover
Two Chadars
In excessive cold one more blanket to prisoners in hill jails
Page 13/14
----- PAGE 14 -----
U.P. Security Prisoners Rules, 1972
Three Janghias
One blanket
Appendix C
Furniture
Superior class security prisoners
Association
Cells
One berth
One bed
One large table with benches
One small table
Lamps
One stool
Sanitary appliances
One lamp
Mosquito-net
One mosquito net
Sanitary appliances
Appendix D
Utensils
Superior class security prisoners
One tumbler
Two cups
One Lota
One spoon
One Thali
Ordinary class security prisoners
One brass Tasla
One Katori
Appendix E
Toilets
Superior class security prisoners
Tooth-brush or Neem sticks
Shoe polish (if necessary)
Tooth-powder to those prisoners who are supplied with brush 115 grams mustard oil per week during
November-February
One cake of soap per fortnight
Sikh prisoner shall in addition be supplied with one cake of soap per month.
Ordinary class security prisoners
10. grams of a mixture of mustard oil and kerosene every week during November-February to be applied to the body.
Prisoners keeping long hair may be supplied with a comb, 55 grams of soap and 30 grams mustard oil weekly.
Appendix F
Newspapers
Superior class security prisoners
One English newspaper, one newspaper in an Indian language and one periodical or magazine for every ten prisoners
at Government expense.
Ordinary class security prisoners
One newspaper in Hindi and one newspaper in Urdu for every 200 prisoners.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 14/14