
----- PAGE 1 -----
The U.P. Fisheries Department Non-Gazetted Services (Imposition of Minor Punishments) Rule...
The U.P. Fisheries Department Non-Gazetted Services (Imposition of
Minor Punishments) Rules, 1973
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/139911078/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Uttar Pradesh - Act
The U.P. Fisheries Department Non-Gazetted Services (Imposition of Minor Punishments) Rules, 1973
UTTAR PRADESH
India
The U.P. Fisheries Department Non-Gazetted Services (Imposition of Minor Punishments) Rules, 1973
Rule
THE-U-P-FISHERIES-DEPARTMENT-NON-GAZETTED-SERVICES-IMPOSITION-OF-MINOR-PUNISHMENTS-RULE
S-1973 of 1973
Published on 1 January 1973
Commenced on 1 January 1973
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 1973.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The U.P. Fisheries Department Non-Gazetted Services (Imposition of Minor Punishments) Rules, 1973
Published vide Notification No. 492 (77)-73-Pa-Paa. (1)-535, dated February 11, 1974
In exercise of the powers under the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution, the Governor is pleased to make the
following rules
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The U.P. Fisheries Department Non-Gazetted Services (Imposition of Minor Punishments) Rule...
These Rules may be called the Uttar Pradesh Fisheries Department Non-Gazetted Services (Imposition of Minor
Punishments) Rules, 1973.
(2)
They shall come into force at once.
2.
Extent of application.
- These rules shall apply to all non-gazetted services of Uttar Pradesh Fisheries Department the maximum of whose
scales of pay is Rs. 500 per mensem or less and whose appointing authority is the Director, Fisheries Department. U.P.
3.
Overriding effect of these rules.
- The provisions of these rules shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith in any rule or order in
force immediately before the commencement of these rules.
4.
Definitions.
- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires-
(a)
"Director" means the Director, Fisheries Department, U. P.
(b)
"Deputy Director" means the Divisional Deputy Director, Fisheries Department, U.P.;
(c)
"Minor punishments" means-
(i)
Censure;
(ii)
withholding of increments including stoppage at efficiency bar; or
(iii)
recovery from pay of the whole part of any pecuniary loss caused to Government by negligence or breach of orders.
5.
Delegation of powers.
- The powers of the Director to inflict minor punishments in respect of non-gazetted officials belonging to Fisheries
Department of U. P. and serving under the Deputy Director, maximum of whose scales of pay is Rs. 500 or less may,
subject to the control of the Director, be exercised also by the respective Deputy Directors.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2