
----- PAGE 1 -----
The U.P. (Appointment of Assistant Public Prosecutors) Rules, 1974
The U.P. (Appointment of Assistant Public Prosecutors) Rules, 1974
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/50569313/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Uttar Pradesh - Act
The U.P. (Appointment of Assistant Public Prosecutors) Rules, 1974
UTTAR PRADESH
India
The U.P. (Appointment of Assistant Public Prosecutors) Rules, 1974
Rule THE-U-P-APPOINTMENT-OF-ASSISTANT-PUBLIC-PROSECUTORS-RULES-1974 of 1974
Published on 27 March 1974
Commenced on 27 March 1974
[This is the version of this document from 27 March 1974.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The U.P. (Appointment of Assistant Public Prosecutors) Rules, 1974
Published vide Notification No. 2303/VIII-2-10(10)-74, dated March 27, 1974, published, in U.P. Gazette (Extra), dated
27th March, 1974, p. 3.
052.
In exercise of the powers under Article 309 of the Constitution and all other powers enabling him in this behalf the
Governor of Uttar Pradesh is pleased to make the following rules :
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Uttar Pradesh (Appointment of Assistant Public Prosecutors) Rules, 1974.
(2)
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The U.P. (Appointment of Assistant Public Prosecutors) Rules, 1974
These rules shall come into force at once.
2.
Absorption of existing SPPs, PPs and APPs in new service.
- With effect from April 1, 1974, the officers who immediately before that date held the post, of Senior Public
Prosecutors, Public Prosecutors and Assistant Public Prosecutors,-which stand abolished under Notification No.
2302/VIII-2-10(l0)-74, dated March 27, 1974 shall, unless by notice in writing to the State Government in the Home
Department delivered by May 1, 1974, they opt otherwise, be absorbed in the new service consisting of the posts of
Assistant Public Prosecutors mentioned in Section 25 of the Cr. P. C, 1973 as follows :
(a)
the officers who immediately before the said date held the post of Senior Public Prosecutor shall be appointed by the
State Government of the post of Assistant Public Prosecutor, Senior Grade and shall for administrative purposes be
designated as Senior Prosecuting Officers;
(b)
the officers who immediately before the said date held the post of Public Prosecutor shall be appointed by the State
Government on the post of Assistant Public Prosecutor, First Grade and shall for administrative purposes be designated
as Prosecuting Officers; and
(c)
the officers who immediately before the said date held the post of Assistant Public Prosecutors shall be appointed by the
State Government on the post of Assistant Public Prosecutor, Second Grade and shall for administrative purposes be
designated as Assistant Prosecuting Officers,
3.
Fresh appointments not to adversely affect any officer.
- Notwithstanding the fact that the appointments of officers mentioned in Rule 2 held by them before April 1974, ceased
as mentioned in that Rule and fresh appointments are made under Rule 2 the terms and Conditions of service of these
officers including their pay and allowances and continuity of service shall remain unaffected.
4.
Future appointments to the post of APPs. Senior Grade, First Grade and Second Grade.
- Future appointments to the posts of Assistant Public Prosecutors, Senior Grade, Assistant Public Prosecutors, First
Grade and Assistant Public Prosecutors, Second Grade shall be made by the State Government in accordance with
such Rules or general orders as the State Government may, from time to time make in that behalf.
5.
Disciplinary control over the Assistant Public Prosecutor.
- The immediate disciplinary control over the Assistant Public Prosecutors, Senior Grade, First Grade and Second
Grade, shall be exercised by such authority or authorities in the district as the State Government may, from time to time,
specify in that behalf and the inter se relationship between these officers shall be governed by such Rules or general
orders as the State Government may from time to time, make in that behalf.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2