
----- PAGE 1 -----
The U.P. Tyre and Tubes (Movement Control) Order, 1974
The U.P. Tyre and Tubes (Movement Control) Order, 1974
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/77153648/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Uttar Pradesh - Act
The U.P. Tyre and Tubes (Movement Control) Order, 1974
UTTAR PRADESH
India
The U.P. Tyre and Tubes (Movement Control) Order, 1974
Rule THE-U-P-TYRE-AND-TUBES-MOVEMENT-CONTROL-ORDER-1974 of 1974
Published on 29 April 1974
Commenced on 29 April 1974
[This is the version of this document from 29 April 1974.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The U.P. Tyre and Tubes (Movement Control) Order, 1974
Published vide Notification Gazette of India, (Extraordinary), Part 2, Section 3 (2), dated 29.4.1974
Uttar Pradesh Shashan
Food and Civil Supplies (A.V. 2) Section No. 4638 XXIX-A, V. 2, dated Lucknow, September 30, 1974
[Republished from the Gazette of India, (Extraordinary), Part II, Section 3, sub-section (ii), dated Monday, April 29,
1974].
Notification No. S.O. 273(E). - Whereas the Central Government is of opinion that it is necessary and expedient so to do
for securing the equitable distribution of certain categories of tyres and tubes:
Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955 (
10 of 1955
), the Central Government hereby makes the following Order, namely:-
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The U.P. Tyre and Tubes (Movement Control) Order, 1974
1.
Short title, extent and commencement.
(1)
This Order may be called the U.P. Tyre and Tubes (Movement Control) Order, 1974.
(2)
It extends to the whole of India.
(3)
It shall come into force at once.
2.
Definitions.
- In this Order unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Manufacturer" means a person engaged in the manufacture of any of the tyres and tubes to which this Order relates;
(b)
"State Government" means the Government of any State, and includes the Administrator of a Union Territory;
(c)
"tyres and tubes" means any of the following categories of tyres and tubes namely:-
(i)
truck tyres and tubes;
(ii)
rear tractor tyres and tubes;
(iii)
[* * *]
[Item (iii) omitted by Notification No. SO 736 (E), dated December 27, 1974.]
[Provided that nothing in this sub-clause shall apply to old and unserviceable tyres and tubes.]
[Inserted by Notification No. SO 736 (E), dated December, 27, 1974.]
3.
Restriction on movement of tyres and tubes.
- No person, other than a manufacturer, shall move, attempt to move or abet the movement of any of the tyres and tubes
from any place in a State to any place outside it except under and in accordance with a permit issued by the State
Government or by any officer authorised by the State Government in this behalf:
Provided that nothing contained in this clause shall apply to the movement of any tyre or tube on Central Government
account.
4.
Powers of entry, search and seizure, etc.
(1)
Any police officer not below the rank of an Assistant Sub-Inspector or any other officer [not below the rank of an
Inspector of Civil Supplies]
[Inserted by Tyres and Tubes (Movement Control) Amendment Order, 1975, dated 7th August, 1975.]
authorised in this behalf by the State Government may, with a view to securing compliance with this Order or to
satisfying himself that this Order has been complied with-
(a)
stop and search any person or any boat, motor or other vehicle used or intended to be used for the movement of tyres
or tubes;
(b)
enter and search any place;
(c)
seize-
(i)
any tyres or tubes in respect of which he has reason to believe that a contravention or any of the provisions of this Order
has been, is being, or is about to be committed;
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The U.P. Tyre and Tubes (Movement Control) Order, 1974
(ii)
any packages or coverings in which any tyre or tubes is found; and
(iii)
the animals, vehicles, vessels or other conveyances used in carrying any tyre or tube, if he has reason to believe that
such animals, vehicles, vessels or other conveyances are liable to be forfeited under the provisions of the Essential
Commodities Act, 1955 (
10 of 1955
), and hereafter take or authorise the taking of all measures necessary for securing the production of packages,
coverings, animals, vehicles or vessels or other conveyances so seized in a court and for their safe custody pending
such production;
(d)
examine or seize any books of accounts or documents which in his opinion would be useful for, or relevant to any
proceeding in respect of any contravention of this Order and return such books of accounts and documents to the
person from whom they were seized after copies thereof and extracts therefrom as certified from that person have been
taken.
(2)
The provisions of Section 100 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), relating to search shall, so far as
may be, apply to searches seizures under this clause.
5.
Effect of Order.
- This provision of this Order shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law
for the time being in force.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3