
----- PAGE 1 -----
The U.P. Recognised Basic Schools (Recruitment And Conditions Of Service Of Teachers And O...
The U.P. Recognised Basic Schools (Recruitment And Conditions Of
Service Of Teachers And Other Conditions) Rules, 1975
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/2893518/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Uttar Pradesh - Act
The U.P. Recognised Basic Schools (Recruitment And Conditions Of Service Of Teachers And Other Conditions) Rules,
1975
UTTAR PRADESH
India
The U.P. Recognised Basic Schools (Recruitment And Conditions Of Service Of Teachers And Other Conditions) Rules,
1975
Rule
THE-U-P-RECOGNISED-BASIC-SCHOOLS-RECRUITMENT-AND-CONDITIONS-OF-SERVICE-OF-TEACHERS-AND-
OTHER-CONDITIONS-RULES-1975 of 1975
Published on 20 May 1975
Commenced on 20 May 1975
[This is the version of this document from 20 May 1975.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The U.P. Recognised Basic Schools (Recruitment And Conditions Of Service Of Teachers And Other Conditions) Rules,
1975
Published Vide Notification No. 1931/15(6)-9(7)-73, dated 20.05.1975, published in U.P. Gazette, Extraordinary, dated
20.5.1975.
UP95
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The U.P. Recognised Basic Schools (Recruitment And Conditions Of Service Of Teachers And O...
In exercise of the powers under sub-section (1) of section 19 of the Uttar Pradesh Basic Education Act, 1972 the
Governor is pleased to make the following rules :
1.
Short title and commencement. -
(1)
These rules may be called the Uttar Pradesh Recognised Basic Schools (Recruitment and Conditions of Service of
Teachers and other Conditions) Rules, 1975.
(2)
This rule and Rule 11 shall come into force at once and the remaining provisions shall come into force on the first day of
July, 1975.
2.
Definitions. -
In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires -
(a)
"Act" means the Uttar Pradesh Basic Education Act, 1972;
(b)
"junior Basic Schools" means an institution other than High Schools or Intermediate Colleges imparting Education up to
the V Class;
(c)
"Board" means the Uttar Pradesh Board of Basic Education constituted under Section 3 of the Act.
(d)
"District Basic Education Officer" means the District Basic Education Officer appointed by the State Government;
(e)
"Recognised School" means any Junior Basic School, not being an institution belonging to or wholly maintained by the
board or any local body, recognised by the Board before the commencement of these rules for imparting education from
Class I to V.
3.
Applicability. -
Every recognised school shall be bound by the conditions and restrictions hereinafter specified.
4.
Financial resources. -
In every recognised school adequate financial resources shall be made available by the management of such school for
its efficient working and adequate facilities shall be provided in accordance with such standard as may be specified by
the Board for teaching the subjects in respect of which such school is recognised.
5.
Buildings and equipment. -
In every recognised school, arrangements shall be made for such buildings, lavatories, playgrounds and equipments as
are in accordance with the specifications specified by the Board and for the construction of well-ventilated and clean
buildings in hygienic surroundings.
6.
Tuition fee. -
Subject to the provisions of Rule 7, tuition fee may be charged in any recognised school at a rate not exceeding Rs. 15
per month and no other amount by whatever name called either as fee, donation or contribution, shall be charged from
the students.
7.
Exemption from tuition fee. -
Subject to the provisions of paras 106 to 114 of the Education Code, so far as they may be applicable, free education
shall be provided in any recognised school to 25 per cent of the number of students on the rolls of such school.
8.
Text-books. -
No recognised school shall impart education in a curriculum or use any text-book other than those prescribed by the
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The U.P. Recognised Basic Schools (Recruitment And Conditions Of Service Of Teachers And O...
Board.
[9. No person shall be appointed as teacher or other employee in any recognised school unless he possesses such
qualifications as are specified in this behalf by the Board and for whose appointment the previous approval of the Basic
Shiksha Adhikari has been obtained in writing. In case of vacancy the applications for appointment shall be invited by
the concerned management through advertisement in at least two newspapers (one of them will be daily newspaper),
giving at least thirty days time for submitting application. The date of interview may be given in the advertisement or the
candidates be informed of the date fixed for interview by registered post, giving them at least 15 days time from the date
of issue of the letter. The management shall not select any untrained teacher and if the selected candidate is a trained
one, he will be approved by the Basic Shiksha Adhikari.]
[Substituted by Notification No. 8314/XV(6) - 9(7)-73 - U.P. Act
34 of 1972
- Rule 1975-AM(1)-77 dated 1.8.1977, published in the U.P. Gazette, Extraordinary, dated 1.8.1977.]
[10. A recognised school shall undertake to pay with effect from July 1, 1975 to every teacher and employee the same
scale of pay, dearness allowance and additional dearness allowance as are paid to the teachers and employees of the
Board possessing similar qualification. Pay will be disbursed through cheque.
11.
No order dismissing, removing or terminating the services of a teacher or other employee of a recognised school shall
be passed save with the prior approval in writing of the Basic Shiksha Adhikari :
Provided that in case of recognised schools established and administered by minority referred to in clause (1) of Article
30 of the Constitution, such an order shall not require the approval of the Basic Shiksha Adhikari but shall be reported to
him.]
[Substituted by Notification No. 8314/XV(6) - 9(7)-73 - U.P. Act
34 of 1972
- Rule 1975-AM(1)-77 dated 1.8.1977, published in the U.P. Gazette, Extraordinary, dated 1.8.1977.]
12.
Appeal against the order of the District Basic Education Officer. -
A teacher or the management feeling aggrieved from an order under Rule 1 passed by the District Basic Education
Officer may, within thirty days from the date of communication of such order, appeal to the Board and the order passed
in such appeal by the Board or person authorised by the Board shall be final.
13.
Duty to comply with conditions of recognition. -
It shall be the duty of the managing body or other person managing the affairs of a recognised school to comply' with the
provisions of the Act and these rules and such other lawful directions as may from time to time be issued by a person
authorised by the Board.
14.
Withdrawal of recognition. -
Where the Board is satisfied that any breach of the provisions of the Act or these rules has been committed in respect of
any recognised school, the Board may, after affording an opportunity of being heard to the managing body or other
person managing such school, withdraw its recognition.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3