
----- PAGE 1 -----
The U.P. Forest Department (Conferment of Powers) Rules, 1977
The U.P. Forest Department (Conferment of Powers) Rules, 1977
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/163225900/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Uttar Pradesh - Act
The U.P. Forest Department (Conferment of Powers) Rules, 1977
UTTAR PRADESH
India
The U.P. Forest Department (Conferment of Powers) Rules, 1977
Rule THE-U-P-FOREST-DEPARTMENT-CONFERMENT-OF-POWERS-RULES-1977 of 1977
Published on 19 September 1977
Commenced on 19 September 1977
[This is the version of this document from 19 September 1977.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The U.P. Forest Department (Conferment of Powers) Rules, 1977
Published vide Notification No. 4982/14-1-77, dated 19-9-1977, published in U.P. Gazette, dated October 8, 1977
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These Rules may be called the U.P. Forest Department (Conferment of Powers) Rules, 1977.
(2)
They shall come into force at once.
2.
Definitions.
- In these Rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The U.P. Forest Department (Conferment of Powers) Rules, 1977
(a)
"Department" means Forest Department.
(b)
"Ranger" means a Forest Ranger appointed under the provisions of the Subordinate Forest (Rangers' Deputy Rangers
and Forests Services) Rules;
(c)
"Chief" means the Chief Conservator of Forests, U.P.;
(d)
"Additional Chief" means Additional Chief Conservator of Forests;
(e)
"Government" means the Government of Uttar Pradesh.
3.
Every Additional Chief shall have the following powers in relation to any Ranger for the time being posted in any Forest
Circle, Division, or Office placed by Government under his administrative control, notwithstanding that the particular
Ranger was appointed by the Chief -
(a)
to place him under suspension pending any inquiry commenced or contemplated against him;
(b)
to appoint any enquiry authority to inquire into charges against him;
(c)
to censure him;
(d)
to withhold his increment or stop him at Efficiency Bar;
(e)
to reduce him to a lower post or time-scale or to a tower stage in a time scale;
(f)
to recover from his pay the whole or part of any pecuniary loss caused to Government by negligence or breach of
orders.
4.
In relation to the Rangers, for the time being posted in Circles, Division Offices directly under the administrative control
of the Chief, the powers mentioned in Rule 3 shall be exercised by the Chief, who is the Appointing Authority in respect
of Rangers.
5.
The provisions of these Rules shall be in addition to and not in derogation of any powers conferred on any authority of
the Department by or under any other rules before the commencement of these Rules.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2