
----- PAGE 1 -----
The U.P. Rajya Vidyut Parish Security Forces (Restriction of Rights) Service Regulations, ...
The U.P. Rajya Vidyut Parish Security Forces (Restriction of Rights)
Service Regulations, 1979
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/34343238/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Uttar Pradesh - Act
The U.P. Rajya Vidyut Parish Security Forces (Restriction of Rights) Service Regulations, 1979
UTTAR PRADESH
India
The U.P. Rajya Vidyut Parish Security Forces (Restriction of Rights) Service Regulations, 1979
Rule
THE-U-P-RAJYA-VIDYUT-PARISH-SECURITY-FORCES-RESTRICTION-OF-RIGHTS-SERVICE-REGULATIONS-1979
of 1979
Published on 2 April 1979
Commenced on 2 April 1979
[This is the version of this document from 2 April 1979.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The U.P. Rajya Vidyut Parish Security Forces (Restriction of Rights) Service Regulations, 1979
Published vide Notification No. 50-Wage Cell/SEB-79, dated January 30, 1979, published in U.P. Gazette
(Extraordinary), dated 2nd April, 1979
Whereas, it is necessary and expedient to make regulations providing for the restriction of certain rights in their
application to the members of the Uttar Pradesh Rajya Vidyut Parishad Security Forces charged with the maintenance
of security of the premises of power projects, stores, offices etc. of the Rajya Vidyut Parishad so as to ensure proper
discharge of their duties and maintenance of discipline amongst them;
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The U.P. Rajya Vidyut Parish Security Forces (Restriction of Rights) Service Regulations, ...
Now therefore, in exercise of the powers under clause (c) of Section 79 of the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 and all other
powers in this behalf the Rajya Vidyut Parishad hereby makes the following Regulations :
1.
Short title, extent and commencement.
(1)
These Regulations may be called the Uttar Pradesh Rajya Vidyut Parishad Security Forces (Restriction of Rights)
Service Regulations, 1979.
(2)
It shall come into force immediately.
2.
Definitions.
- In these Regulations unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Member of the Uttar Pradesh Rajya Vidyut Prishad Security Force" means a person appointed or enrolled as such by
the Rajya Vidyut Parishad;
(b)
"Parishad" means the Uttar Pradesh Rajya Vidyut Parishad constituted under Section 5 of the Electricity (Supply) Act,
1948;
(c)
"Security force" includes any force charged with maintenance of security of the premises or of power projects, stores,
offices, etc. of the Parishad.
3.
Restrictions Respecting Right to Form Association, Freedom of Speech, etc.
(1)
No member of security force shall without the express sanction of the Parishad or of the authority empowered in this
behalf by the Parishad-
(a)
be a member of or be associated in any way, with any trade union, labour unions, political association or with any class
of trade union, labour union, or political associations;
(b)
be a member of or be associated in any way with, any other society,
(c)
communicate with press or publish or cause to be published any book, letter or other document except where such
communication or publication is in the bona fide discharge of his duties or is of a purely literary, artistic or scientific
character.
Explanation. - If any question arises as to whether any society, institution, association or organisation is of a purely
social, recreational or religious nature under clause (b) of this sub-section the decision of Parishad thereon shall be final.
(2)
No member of the security force shall participate in or address any meeting or take part in any demonstration organised
by any body or persons for any political purposes or in any agitational activity or for such other purposes as may be
prescribed by the Parishad.
4.
Penalty.
- Any person who contravenes the provisions of these Regulations shall render himself liable to disciplinary action which
may in an appropriate case extend to dismissal from service.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2