
----- PAGE 1 -----
The U.P. Blackmarketeer Prisoners Rules, 1979
The U.P. Blackmarketeer Prisoners Rules, 1979
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/114068068/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Uttar Pradesh - Act
The U.P. Blackmarketeer Prisoners Rules, 1979
UTTAR PRADESH
India
The U.P. Blackmarketeer Prisoners Rules, 1979
Rule THE-U-P-BLACKMARKETEER-PRISONERS-RULES-1979 of 1979
Published on 15 November 1979
Commenced on 15 November 1979
[This is the version of this document from 15 November 1979.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The U.P. Blackmarketeer Prisoners Rules, 1979
Published vide Notification No. P. 23, 29 - 10-PD-2-79, dated November 15, 1979, published in U.P. Gazette, (Extra)
dated 15th November, 1979.
In exercise of the powers under Section 5 of the Prevention of Black-marketing and Maintenance of Supplies of
Essential Commodities Ordinance, 1979 (Ordinance No. 10 of 1979), the Governor is pleased to order that the following
rules regarding the place and other conditions about maintenance, discipline and punishment for breaches of discipline,
shall govern persons detained in pursuance of an order of detention made under the said Ordinance.
1.
Short title, extent and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Uttar Pradesh Blackmarketeer Prisoners Rules, 1979 (hereinafter referred to as "the
Page 1/14
----- PAGE 2 -----
The U.P. Blackmarketeer Prisoners Rules, 1979
Rules").
(2)
They shall apply to all persons (hereinafter referred to as "Black-marketeer Prisoners") ordered to be detained and
committed to a prison in Uttar Pradesh by any authority acting in exercise of the powers under Section 3 of the
Prevention of Blackmarketing and Maintenance of Supplies and Essential Commodities Ordinance, 1979 (Ordinance
No. 10 of 1979) and shall come into force from the date of their publication in the official Gazette.
(3)
Except to the extent they are modified by the following rules, all rules relating to convicted prisoners contained in the
Uttar Pradesh Jail Manual shall apply to Blackmarketeer Prisoners:
Provided that the Governor may direct that the provisions of these rules shall apply in relation to any blackmarketeer
prisoner or any class of blackmarketeer prisoners with such modifications as may be specified in the direction.
2.
Definition.
- In these rules, "Superintendent" means the officer appointed to be, or to act as, the Superintendent of the Jail or other
place in which the blackmarketeer prisoner is ordered to be detained.
3.
Accommodation.
- Blackmarketeer prisoners shall be detained in cells or association barracks, preferably the latter, and allowed to
communicate freely with each other within their enclosure, but so far as possible, shall be kept separate from other
prisoners. The Superintendent may, however, confine any particular blackmarketeer prisoner separately if he considers
it desirable on grounds of health or for any other reason.
4.
Classification.
- Blackmarketeer prisoners shall be placed in the ordinary class, unless otherwise specifically directed by the detaining
authority.
5.
Diet.
- Blackmarketeer prisoners in superior and ordinary classes shall be allowed diet on the scales prescribed in the Jail
Manual for convicted prisoners of the corresponding classes, vide Appendix A. They shall not be allowed to cook their
own food.
6.
Clothing and bedding.
- Blackmarketeer prisoners may wear their own clothes and use their own bedding and shoes. They may also, with the
permission of the Superintendent, receive extra clothing and bedding from friends and relatives.
7.
The Superintendent shall supply to any blackmarketeer prisoner not provided with adequate clothes and bedding such
articles as will with those already in his possession be equal to the scale prescribed for convicts of the corresponding
class vide Appendix B.
8.
Women blackmarketeer prisoners in the superior and the ordinary classes shall be allowed the same scales of clothing
as convicted women prisoners of the corresponding classes.
9.
All articles of clothing and bedding supplied by the Stale Government shall remain the property of the State Government.
They shall not be taken away by any blackmarketeer prisoner on release save to the extent considered necessary for
health and decency by the Superintendent in the case of a blackmarketeer prisoner whose own clothing and bedding
are insufficient for these purposes.
10.
Furniture.
- Furniture shall be provided to superior class blackmarketeer prisoners according to the scales admissible to superior
class convict, vide Appendix C. Blackmarketeer prisoners of the ordinary class shall be treated as convicts of the
ordinary class in this matter.
Page 2/14
----- PAGE 3 -----
The U.P. Blackmarketeer Prisoners Rules, 1979
11.
Utensils.
- Blackmarketeer prisoners may use their own utensils. The Superintendent shall apply to any blackmarketeer prisoner
not provided with adequate utensils such articles as will, with those already in his possession, be equal to the scales
allowed to superior and ordinary classes of convicted prisoners, vide Appendix D.
12.
Toilets.
- Blackmarketeer prisoners in the superior and ordinary classes shall be supplied with such toilet articles as are
admissible to convicts of the corresponding classes, vide Appendix E. The Superintendent may permit a blackmarketeer
prisoner to receive other toilet articles at his own cost or from friends and relatives. The Superintendent may withhold
any articles the supply of which he considers to be objectionable.
The tooth powder should be prepared according to the following prescription in some centrally located Jail or Jails and
distributed to various Jails according to their requirements:
1
2
3
Menthol
85 Gram
}
For 100 prisoners for one month.
Thymol
85 Gram
Acid Carbolic
70 Gram
Chalk
15 Kg. 550 gram.
A convict barber will be available but superior class blackmarketeer prisoners may, if they like, use their own safety
razors.
13.
Deposits.
- A blackmarketeer prisoner may, with the previous sanction of the Superintendent receive funds from a relative or friend
to enable him to supplement of the amenities of life in jail. The maximum that can be spent by him during any calendar
month shall not exceed Rs. 15. In case of blackmarketeer prisoners of the superior class the District Magistrate may
permit such expenditure ordinarily up to Rs. 50 and with the prior sanction of the State Government up to Rs. 100.
14.
Interviews.
- Every superior class blackmarketeer prisoner may have two interviews and every ordinary class blackmarketeer
prisoner, one interview every month with his relatives or friends, provided that this privilege shall be subject to good
conduct and may be withdrawn or suspended by the Superintendent if the blackmarketeer prisoner has been guilty of a
serious breach of discipline. Superintendent shall have full discretion to choose the place and mode of interviews, but
shall see that the prisoners and their interviewers are provided with sufficient accommodation.
Note. - Such prisoner may, with the permission of the Superintendent substitute a letter with reply for an interview or vice
versa.
15.
(1)
In addition to the interviews permissible under the preceding rule, a blackmarketeer prisoner may, with the permission of
the District Magistrate, be allowed-
(a)
not more than two special interviews for the settlement of his business or professional affairs ordinarily to take place
within two months of his arrest; such interviews shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of these rules as
regards place, duration and conditions of interviews, and the interview shall be strictly confined to the objects for which it
Page 3/14
----- PAGE 4 -----
The U.P. Blackmarketeer Prisoners Rules, 1979
is granted;
(b)
(i)
to interview his legal adviser in connection with a proceeding in a court of law to which the blackmarketeer prisoner is or
will be a party;
(ii)
to interview his legal adviser or any other person of his choice in connection with making a representation to
Government regarding his detention.
Note. - Not more than one such interview shall ordinarily be allowed before the proceeding is instituted or the
representation is made.
(2)
All such interviews shall be subject to such conditions and restrictions as the Superintendent may consider necessary to
ensure security and prevent the passing of unauthorized communications unconnected with the case relating to which
the interview is granted. Where a legal adviser interviews a blackmarketeer prisoner in connection with making a
representation to Government or any proceeding in a court of law about his detention, no jail official or police officer
including an officer of the Criminal Investigation Department shall be present at the interview within hearing range.
16.
No blackmarketeer prisoner shall be permitted to have an interview with a person other than a police officer except on
the written order of the State Government or the District Magistrate. As a general rule, the District Magistrate who has
passed the original order of detention, shall be the authority to grant or refuse an interview. The District Magistrate of the
district in which the prisoner is detained may, however, also grant or refuse an interview in exceptional cases.
17.
Ordinarily not more than three persons may interview a blackmarketeer prisoner at a time. The authority empowered to
allow an interview may at his discretion, in special cases, increase the number of persons permitted at an interview.
18.
Interviews shall not last for more than an hour save with the permission in writing of the authority empowered to allow an
interview.
19.
Every person permitted to interview a blackmarketeer prisoner as well as the prisoner himself shall be searched before
and after the interview.
20.
After the interview is over, the official present at the interview shall warn both the blackmarketeer prisoner and the visitor
that future interviews arc liable to be prohibited if the visitor indulges in any publicity on behalf of such prisoner.
21.
Interviews by police officers.
- Subject to the directions of the State Government the Inspector-General of Police may, by general or special order,
authorise any Police Officer either singly or with another police officer and accompanied or unaccompanied by
subordinate police officers, to interview any blackmarketeer prisoner.
22.
The police officers so authorized shall be allowed to interview blackmarketeer prisoners in their cells or wards or in the
ordinary interview room, without a jail official being present, on their making a written requisition to this effect to the
Superintendent at the time of the interview. In visiting the cells or wards every police officer shall be accompanied by
such escort as the Superintendent considers necessary for his safety. The excort, if the police officer so requires shall
stand out of ear shot, but within sight while he is speaking to any blackmarketeer prisoner.
23.
Correspondence.
- Every superior class blackmarketeer prisoner may write two letters in a month. All letters addressed to a superior class
prisoner and received in Jail will be delivered to him. Every ordinary class blackmarketeer prisoner may write and
receive one letter in a month. This privilege shall be subject to good conduct and may be withdrawn or postponed by the
Superintendent, if the blackmarketeer prisoner has been guilty of a serious breach of discipline.
Note. - A prisoner may, with the permission of the Superintendent substitute a letter with reply for an interview or vice
Page 4/14
----- PAGE 5 -----
The U.P. Blackmarketeer Prisoners Rules, 1979
versa.
24.
Blackmarketeer prisoners may write letters to, and receive letters from security prisoners detained in other places
provided that the contents of these letters are of a purely personal character. Such letters will be taken into account in
calculating the maximum allowed by Rule 23; they should be sent to the Jail in which the addresses is detained. All
letters addressed to blackmarketeer prisoners in another State shall be forwarded to the State Government for
transmission to that State.
25.
All letters to and from blackmarketeer prisoners shall be read by the Superintendent himself. He shall transmit all such
letters as are prima facie unobjectionable. Letters which are objectionable or about which he has any doubt, will be
referred by him immediately to the District Magistrate of the district in which the Jail is located. The District Magistrate
shall return these letters within four days with the necessary directions for their disposal, provided that any letter
addressed either to the Central or the State Government shall be forwarded immediately to the Food Secretary to
Government for necessary action.
26.
If there is anything apparently objectionable from the point of view of jail discipline in any communication made by, or
intended to be delivered to a blackmarketeer prisoner, the Superintendent or in cases referred to the District Magistrate,
the latter after consulting the Superintendent of the Jail, if necessary, may delete it.
27.
Every letter forwarded to or from a security prisoner shall be initialled and dated by each officer who handles the letter.
28.
The Superintendent shall withhold all letters received by an ordinary class security prisoner in excess of the number
permitted, retaining them for a maximum period of one month. If within that time they have not been delivered to the
prisoner in accordance with his quota, they shall be destroyed by the Superintendent.
29.
In all cases in which a letter is withheld, the blackmarketeer prisoner shall be informed through the Superintendent of the
fact of the retention. All letters withheld other than those withheld under Rule 28 shall be sent to the Deputy
Inspector-General of Police, Criminal Investigation Department or other officer designated by the State Government in
this behalf who may at his discretion either retain or destroy them.
30.
Telegrams may be sent at the expenses of the prisoner sending them. They shall Acount as letters for the purposes of
Rule 23 and shall pass through censorship in the same manner as letters.
31.
Blackmarketeer prisoners shall attach to all their outgoing correspondence (including telegrams), a slip containing the
full name and address, and, in the case of relative, the relationship of the addressee, and of each person mentioned in
the letter or telegram. These slips shall be sent to the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Criminal Investigation
Department, or other officer designated by the State Government in this behalf who, if he considers that the writer
should not be allowed to correspond with the addressee, shall inform the Superintendent for his future guidance.
32.
Newspapers and books.
- Blackmarketeer prisoners in the superior and ordinary classes shall be allowed newspapers and magazines at
Government expense in accordance with the scales admissible to convicted prisoners of the corresponding classes,
vide Appendix F.
33.
Blackmarketeer prisoners may select their own newspapers and periodicals or magazines provided they are not on the
prohibited list.
34.
Newspapers, periodicals and magazines should not be censored before they are supplied to security prisoners.
35.
It is desirable to encourage the use of suitable literature and, as far as practicable , facilities should be given for
obtaining it. Newspapers and magazines may be allowed at the cost of the prisoner or his relatives or friends, from
Page 5/14
----- PAGE 6 -----
The U.P. Blackmarketeer Prisoners Rules, 1979
outside sources provided they are not on the prohibited list. Prisoners may borrow books from the Jail library or obtain
them from outside sources provided they are not prescribed. This concession shall be withdrawn if it is found that any
book has been allowed to go out of the barrack of the prisoner concerned without the specific permission of the
Superintendent. If the Superintendent has any doubt whether any particular book is prescribed or not, he shall refer the
matter to the District Magistrate.
36.
Writing materials.
- Loose paper may be supplied to blackmarketeer prisoners for the writing of the permissible number of letters. For other
purposes ordinary school exercise books may be purchased from the funds at their disposal under Rule 13 and the
pages shall be numbered. The extraction of leaves from such exercise books by a blackmarketeer prisoner shall be
treated as breach of jail discipline.
37.
Pencils, pens and ink may be allowed to blackmarketeer prisoners at Government expense.
38.
Transmission through Superintendent.
- No letter, newspapers, or other communication shall be transmitted to or from any blackmarketeer prisoner except
through the Superintendent or such other officer as the State Government may by general or special order designate in
this behalf.
39.
Washing of clothes.
- The Superintendent shall make arrangement for the washing of clothes of superior class blackmarketeer prisoners
provided that any prisoner in the superior class desiring to wash his own clothes may be given 230 gram sajji and 115
gram washing soap weekly for the purpose. Ordinary class blackmarketeer prisoners shall wash their own clothes. They
shall receive sajji on the scale admissible to ordinary class convicts.
40.
Travelling expenses.
- Travelling expenses at 2nd class rates for prisoners of both the superior and ordinary class prisoners of actual fare of
the bus if rail journey is not available, shall be given to blackmarketeer prisoners on release irrespective of whether they
have sufficient money of their own or not. Journeys on transfers will also be made according to this classification. If any
security prisoner wishes to travel by a class higher than the classes indicated, he must pay, in addition to the difference
in his own fare, the difference in the fare of the escort travelling with him.
41.
Diet money.
- Blackmarketeer prisoners of the superior and ordinary classes shall be given diet money on their transfer or release as
prescribed for convicted prisoners of the corresponding classes, vide Paragraphs 113-A and 113 respectively of the
Uttar Pradesh Jail Manual.
42.
Games and sports.
- Provisions for carom draughts and chess shall be made at the expense of the State Government. Other indoor games
may be provided at the expense of the individual blackmarketeer prisoners at the discretion of the Superintendent
43.
Provision for badminton, volley-ball and deck-tennis shall be made at the expense of the State Government, where
sufficient space is available.
44.
Punkhas.
- For blackmarketeer prisoners in the superior class provision shall be made for punkhas and for jail labour to pull them
between April 15 and October 15. Such punkhas may be provided at night also, at the request of those prisoners who
have to sleep inside their barracks.
45.
Sleeping in the open.
- All blackmarketeer prisoners will ordinarily be allowed to sleep out in the open during the summer between dates to be
Page 6/14
----- PAGE 7 -----
The U.P. Blackmarketeer Prisoners Rules, 1979
determined by the Inspector-General but no special arrangements like beds etc. shall be made for the purpose. The
privileges of sleeping in the open will be purely in the nature of a concession and may be refused or withdrawn for
reasons of security or on account of the misbehaviour of the prisoner concerned.
46.
Medical treatment.
- Blackmarketeer prisoners will ordinarily be treated by the Medical Officer of the jail. If that Officer considers that it is
advisable to consult or engage an outside doctor in any case, he will refer the matter for the orders of the State
Government, through the Superintendent, except in an emergency when he may call in outside opinion on his own
initiative.
47.
Serious illness.
- If a blackmarketeer prisoners is seriously ill, the Superintendent shall report the fact to the District Magistrate, the
Inspector General of Prisons as well as the State Government and shall also inform any friend or relation of the prisoner
if so desired by him.
48.
Removal to Civil Hospital.
- If a blackmarketeer prisoner is seriously ill, and in the opinion of the District Magistrate and the Chief Medical Officer
treatment in the Civil Hospital is essential, the prisoner may be transferred to the Civil Hospital in the manner provided in
Paragraph 1058 of the Uttar Pradesh Jail Manual. In such case the Superintendent will report the fact to the State
Government through the Inspector-General of Prisons.
49.
Eye-treatment.
(1)
The eyes of a blackmarketeer prisoner will, ordinarily be examined by the Medical Officer of the Jail, if that officer
considers it advisable to do so, the Superintendent may secure the services of an outside oculist without reference to
the State Government. A fee not exceeding Rs. 8 per visit in the case of others, exclusive of conveyance charges, shall
be admissible for such visits.
(2)
If, upon such examination, it is recommended that the prisoners requires spectacles, either for the first time, or
according to a new prescription, these shall be supplied to him at the following rates at Government cost
For new spectacles not more than Rs.12 per pairs and for new lenses of a different power when the prisoner already
has spectacles not more than Rs. 6 per pair.
(3)
A prisoner who desires spectacles lenses costing more than the maxima prescribed in sub-rule (2) shall himself pay the
difference in cost.
(4)
The cost of repairs or replacement of cracked or broken lenses shall be borne by the prisoner.
50.
Dental treatment.
- If, in the opinion of the Medical Officer of the Jail, a blackmarketeer prisoner requires dental treatment, the
Superintendent shall make arrangements for such treatment the cost of such treatment shall not exceed the rates
prescribed in Paragraph 104 of the Medical Manual, except that in the case of visit a Dental Surgeon may be allowed a
fee up to Rs. 8 per visit exclusive of conveyance charges for attending on such prisoner. If more elaborate treatment is
required, such as the supply of artificial teeth, the Superintendent shall refer the case to the Inspector-General of
Prisons for the orders of the State Government.
51.
Examinations.
- A blackmarketeer prisoner, who is preparing for an examination for which permission has been accorded both by the
State Government and by the authorities conducting the examinations in jails.
52.
(1)
Page 7/14
----- PAGE 8 -----
The U.P. Blackmarketeer Prisoners Rules, 1979
A blackmarketeer prisoner, who is preparing for an examination for which permission has been accorded both by the
State Government and by the authorities conducting the examination may be allowed to get prescribed books at his own
cost for studies inside the jail.
(2)
Pencils, pen and ink, in addition to those admissible under Rule 37 as well as exercise books may be allowed to
prisoners preparing for an examination to the extent considered necessary by the Superintendent.
53.
Blackmarketeer prisoners, who want to appear privately at any examination, should themselves obtain permission to do
so. They shall for this purpose, be permitted to write and receive letters in addition to those permissible under Rule 23.
54.
Searches.
- All blackmarketeer prisoners and their cells and wards shall be searched not less than once a week, and oftener if the
Superintendent considers it necessary, by the Jailor or the Deputy Jailor, as detailed by the Superintendent. Special
precautions shall be taken to make the searches thorough, and the fact of the search shall be noted in the Jailor's
Report book.
55.
Punishments.
(a)
The Superintendent may inflict on a blackmarketeer prisoner any of the punishments that he may award to a convicted
prisoner for any offence specified in Section 45 of the Prisons Act, 1894 (IX of 1894), read with Paragraph 806 of the
Uttar Pradesh Jail Mannual:
Provided that a blackmarketeer prisoner shall in no circumstances be punished with whipping.
(b)
If any blackmarketeer prisoners is guilty of any offence against prionser discipline which, by reason of his having
frequently committed such offences or otherwise in the opinion of the superintendent, is not adequately punishable by
the infliction of any punishment which he has power under rule (a) of this rule to award to such prisoner, the
Superintendent may forward such prisoner to the Court of any Magistrate of the first class having jurisdiction together
with a statement of the circumstances and such Magistrate shall thereupon enquire into and try the charge so brought
against the prisoner, and upon conviction may sentence him to imprisonment which may extend to one year:
Provided that where the act constituting the offence constitute an offence punishable under the Indian Penal Code with
imprisonment for a term exceeding one year, nothing in this rule shall preclude the blackmarketeer prisoner from being
tried and sentenced for such latter offence.
56.
Handcuffs and fetters.
- Fetters, handcuffs and cross-bar fetters shall not be imposed for reasons of safe custody on balckmarketeer prisoners
travelling by road or rail unless a special requisition is made in writing by a police officer not below the rank of
Superintendent of Police.
57.
The Superintendent may at any time impose fetters on a blackmarketeer prisoner if he considers that there is serious
danger of the blackmarketeer prisoner escaping if fetters are not imposed.
58.
Prohibited article.
- The following articles are prohibited articles:
(i)
Spirituous or fermented liquors of any kind.
(ii)
Opium, preparations of opium or intoxicating drugs.
(iii)
Implements for smoking such a huqqa, chilums, etc.
(iv)
All explosive or poisonous articles or materials for making fire or materials which would cause disfiguration.
Page 8/14
----- PAGE 9 -----
The U.P. Blackmarketeer Prisoners Rules, 1979
(v)
Bullion, metal, money, currency notes, valuable securities, jewellery or ornaments of any kind except those prescribed
by religion for women, and article of value of every discription.
(vi)
Knives, arms, ropes, strings, bamboos, ladders, sticks all materials of whatever description which are capable of being
converted into string or rope or chain, any article likely to facilitate escape, or implement of any kind.
(vii)
Any other article not expressly provided by the State Government for the health, discipline, clothing, dieting and use of
the prisoners.
59.
Miscellaneous.
- Discussion of political matters - in letters or during interviews is forbidden.
60.
Blackmarketeer prisoners may, at their option, be allowed to do such work as may be allotted to them by the
Superintendent and may receive remuneration for their labour at such rates as the Inspector General of Prisons may,
with the approval of the State Government, fix.
61.
All particulars relating to blackmarketeer prisoners shall be entered (without serial number ) in the Registers of Civil
Prisoner, and all statistics of such prisoners shall be shown separately in jail returns.
62.
The playing of musical instrument is forbidden except between the hours of 12 noon to 1 p.m. and 6 p.m. to 8 p.m.
63.
The keeping of dogs is prohibited. Other pets of a harmless nature arc permitted.
64.
The smoking of tobacco, cigarettes, etc. is permitted at the cost of the prisoner but pan is prohibited. Blackmarketeer
prisoners may receive from friends and relation smoking requisites except those forbidden under Rule 59.
65.
Non-official visitors, other than Members of the legislature who are ex officio non-official visitors will not, except with the
specific permission of the District Magistrate or the State Government be permitted to visit blackmarketeer prisoners.
66.
All communications addressed by a blackmarketeer prisoner, who is a member of the State Legislature or of Parliament,
to the Speaker or Chairman of the house of which he is a member or to the Chairman of a Committee (including a
Committee of Privileges) of such House or of joint Committee of both Houses of the State Legislature or of Parliament,
as the case may be, shall be immediately forwarded by the Superintendent of the jail to the Government so as to be
dealt with by them in accordance with the rights and privileges of the prisoner as a member of the House to which he
belongs.
67.
The provisions of Sections 266 to 271 (both inclusive) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, and the U.P. Prisoners
(Attendance in Courts) Rules, 1956, shall apply to appearances of blackmarketeer prisoners in courts.
68.
The Superintendent of the Jails in which blackmarketeer prisoner are detained, may allow security prisoners facilities for
pursuing the hobby of gardening if desired, where arrangements can be made without undue inconvenience.
69.
Such other instructions as may be necessary for the guidance of jail officers may be issued by the Inspector-General of
Prisons with the approval of the State Government.
70.
A copy of these rules should be made available for the use of blackmarketeer prisoners in any place where such
prisoners are detained.
71.
These rules supersede all existing rules and order on the subject.
Appendix A
Page 9/14
----- PAGE 10 -----
The U.P. Blackmarketeer Prisoners Rules, 1979
Diet
Superior class blackmarketeer prisoners
Food Stuff
Diet scale fornon-vegetarians
Diet scale forvegetarians
Wheat
350 Gram
350 Gram
Rice
175 Gram
175 Gram
Dal
55 Gram
115 Gram
Meat
230 Gram
.....
Milk
.....
350 Gram
Butter or Ghee
55 Gram
70 Gram
Mustard Oil
15 Gram
15 Gram
Sugar
55 Gram
55 Gram
Tea and milk (if required)
{
15 Gram
{
15 Gram
55 Gram
55 Gram
Vegetables (of which not more than 230 gram may be potatoes).
230 Gram
350 Gram
Spices
15 Gram
15 Gram
Salt
30 Gram
20 Gram
Amchur
15 Gram
10 Gram
or
Chatni or
10 Gram
Page 10/14
----- PAGE 11 -----
The U.P. Blackmarketeer Prisoners Rules, 1979
10 Gram
Lime juice
30 Gram
30 Gram
Fruit
40 Paise three times a week
40 Paise three times a week
Fuel
1 Kg 855 Gram
1 Kg 400 Gram
Ordinary class security prisoner
Food Stuff
Labouring
Non-Labouring
Grain ration
350 Gram
290 Gram
Dal
30 Gram
30 Gram
Vegetables
115 Gram
115 Gram
Oil
5 Gram
5 Gram
Chillies
½ Gram
½ Gram
Turmeric
½ Gram
½ Gram
Salt
7 Gram
7 Gram
The following scale prescribed for the morning meal to prisoners:
(1) Sweet dalia
Wheat 55 Gram and gur 30 gram thrice a week.
(2) Soaked
boiled gram
45 Gram salted (salt 2 grams, oil 1 gram and chillies ½ gram)
twice a week.
(3) Parched
gram
115 gram twice a week.
Appendix B
Clothing
Superior class blackmarketeer prisoners
Male
Summer
Winter
Page 11/14
----- PAGE 12 -----
The U.P. Blackmarketeer Prisoners Rules, 1979
Three kurtas
Three kurtas
Two dhotie or pyjamas
Two dhoties or pyjamas
Two drawers or tikonies
Two drawers or tikonies
Two banianas
Two Banians.
Two caps or pagris
Two caps or pagris.
Socks two pairs
Socks two pairs.
One mattress
One mattress.
Two towels
Two towels
One piece of cloth
One piece of cloth.
One pillow
One Pillow
Two pillow cases
Two pillow cases
Two bed-sheets
Two bed-sheets
One pair full slippers or chappals
One pair full slippers or Chappals.
One blanket
Three blankets or one quilt:
One woolen coat.
One pair woollen pyjamas, if required.
One woollen waist-coat.
Female
Two dusuti dresses or two garha saries andtwo garha
jackets.
In addition to summer scale:
Two each necesary under clothes
Two flannel dresses or one woollen long coat reaching down to
the knee
Two pairs of stocking, if required
Three blankets
One
cardigan.
One blanket.
One pillow.
Two towel.
One pair of full slippers or one pair chappals.
One topi if required.
Ordinary class blackmarketeer prisoners.
Male
Summer
Winter
Page 12/14
----- PAGE 13 -----
The U.P. Blackmarketeer Prisoners Rules, 1979
Two Kurtas
Two kurtas
Two dhoties or payjamas
Two dhoties or payjamas.
One cap
One Cap
One tikoni
One tikoni
One chadar
One Chadar
One towel
One Towel
One blanket
Three blanket.
One janghia
One janghia
Female
Three saries
In addition to summer clothing the following:
Two kurtas
Two kurtie
One Blanket.
Two towels
One pullover.
Two chadarsThree Janghiasone blanket
In excessive cold one more blanket to prisoners in hill jails.
Appendix C
Furniture
Superior class blackmarketeer prisoner.
Association
Cells
One berth
One bed
One large table with benches
One small table
Lamps
One stool.
Sanitary appliances
One lamp.
Mosquito-net
One mosquito-net Sanitary appliances
Appendix D
Utensils
Superior class blackmarketeer prisoner
One tumbler
Two cups
One lota
One spoon
One thali
Ordinary class blackmarketeer prisoner
One brass tasla
Page 13/14
----- PAGE 14 -----
The U.P. Blackmarketeer Prisoners Rules, 1979
One Kaori
Appendix E
Toilets
Superior class blackmarketeer prisoners
Toot-brush or neem sticks.
Shoe polish (if necessary).
Tooth-powder to those prisoner who are supplied with brush
115.
gram mustard oil per week during November - February.
One cake of soap per fortnight.
Sikh prisoners shall in addition be supplied with one cake of soap over month.
Ordinary class blackmarketeer prisoners.
10. gram of a mixture of mustard oil and kerosene every week during November - February to be applied to the body.
Prisoners keeping long hair may be supplied with a comb, 55 gram of soap and 30 grams mustard oil weekly.
Appendix F
Newspaper
Superior class blackmarketeer prisoner.
One English newspaper, one newspaper in an Indian language and one periodical or magazine for every ten prisoners
at Government expense.
Ordinary class blackmarketeer prisoner.
One newspaper is Hindi and one newspaper in Urdu for every 200 prisoners
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 14/14