
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Allahabad Development Authority (The Time and Manner of Payment of Betterment Charge) ...
The Allahabad Development Authority (The Time and Manner of
Payment of Betterment Charge) Bye-Laws, 1984
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/148414373/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Uttar Pradesh - Act
The Allahabad Development Authority (The Time and Manner of Payment of Betterment Charge) Bye-Laws, 1984
UTTAR PRADESH
India
The Allahabad Development Authority (The Time and Manner of Payment of Betterment Charge) Bye-Laws, 1984
Rule
THE-ALLAHABAD-DEVELOPMENT-AUTHORITY-THE-TIME-AND-MANNER-OF-PAYMENT-OF-BETTERMENT-CHAR
GE-BYE-LAWS-1984 of 1984
Published on 18 February 1984
Commenced on 18 February 1984
[This is the version of this document from 18 February 1984.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Allahabad Development Authority (The Time and Manner of Payment of Betterment Charge) Bye-Laws, 1984
Published vide Notifcation No. 1067/XXXVII-2-224-D-A-80, dated February, 16, 1984, published in U.P. Gazette, Extra,
dated 18th February, 1984, pp. 3-5]
034.
In exercise of the powers under clause (c) of Section 57 of the U.P. Urban Planning and Development Act, 1973
(Presidents Act No. 11 of 1973) as re-enacted . with midification by the U.P. Presidents Act (Re-enactment with
Modification) Act, 1974 (U.P. Act No. 30 of the 1974) the Allahabad Development Authority after previous approval of
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Allahabad Development Authority (The Time and Manner of Payment of Betterment Charge) ...
the State Government makes the following Bye-laws ;
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These Bye-laws may be called the Allahabad Development Authority (the Time and Manner of Payment of Betterment
Charge) Bye-Laws, 1984.
(2)
They shall come into force with effect from the date of their publication in the Gazette.
(3)
They shall apply to the areas falling under the Allahabad Development Authority.
2.
Definition.
- In these Bye-laws, unless the context otherwise requires, "betterment charge" shall mean the amount of "betterment
charge" determined under Section 36 of the Act.
3.
Notice or demand.
- When the amount of betterment charge has been finally assessed by the Vice-Chairman under sub-section (2) of
Section 36 of the Act, or has been finally determined by the Chairman under sub-section (4) of Section 36 of the Act, the
Development Authority or an Officer authorised in this behelf shall by notice in Form 'A' require the assessee to pay the
betterment charge so assessed or determined in six bi-monthly instalments. The first instalment shall be payable within
two months of the date on which the notice is issued:
Provided that the assessee may at any time pay the entire amount of the betterment charge or of the balance then due
and in such cases he may be allowed a rebate of ten per cent.
4.
Certificate of arrear.
(1)
In the event of recover of the arrears of the betterment charge as arrears of land revenue, the Development Authority or
an officer authorised in this behelf, shall forward a certificate to the Collector of the district concerned specifying the
amount due from the assesee.
(2)
Every certificate referred to above shall be prepared in Form 'B' under signature of the officer authorised in this behalf by
Development Authority and under its seal.
5.
Recovery of arrears.
- On receipt of the certificate in accordance with Bye-laws No. 4 the Collector shall cause the same to be entered in a
register maintained for the purpose and shall proceed to recover the amount specified in the certificate as arrears of land
revenue.
6.
Remittance of amount.
- The amount realised, as referred to in Bye-laws No. 5 by the Collector shall be sent to the Development Authority as
soon as possible within one month from the date of recovery in the manner as may be requested by the Development
Authority.
7.
Seizure of live stock.
- In case any live-stock is seized by the Collector, in the recovery of dues of arrears of betterment charge as arrears of
land revenud, they shall be admitted to the nearest cattle-pound and the expenses incurred for feeding the live- stock
shall be in addition to other expenses and shall be recovered from the ' assessee along with the arrears of betterment
charge. .
Form 'A'
(Bye Laws No. 3)
........Development Authority
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Allahabad Development Authority (The Time and Manner of Payment of Betterment Charge) ...
No.
Date 19
NOTICE
(Under Section 38 of the U.P. Urban Planning and Development Act, 1973)
To,
Sri.................................
Son of Sri..........................
residing at.........................
Take notice that your land/building/shop/premises detailed in the margin, has been subject to betterment charges under
Section 3 of the U.P. Urban Planning and Development Act, 1973 and a sum of Rs.........has been levied as betterment
charges on your aforementioned property.
You are therfore, required to pay the aforesaid entire amount of Rs........in the office of the aforesaid Development
Authority in the following six equal bi-monthly instalments, beginning from two months of the date of issue of this notice.
Amount (Rs.)
Due Date
Remarks
1 installment
2 installments
3 installments
4 installments
5 installments
3 installments_____________
Total amount_____________
A rebate of 10 per cent shall be given on payment of the entire amount of the betterment charge at once in the
beginning or on the balance due at the time payment.
On failure of payment of any instalment the whole amount of the betterment charge shall become payble at once and
shall be recovered as arrears of land revenue.
Issued under my signatures and seal on this.............day of......19
Signature with seat and designation.
Form 'B'
(Bye-law No. 4)
........Development Authority
Date 19
No.
The Collector
.
Certificate
[Under sub-section (2) of Section 38 of the U.P. Urban Planning and Development Act, 1973 read with Bye-laws No. 4)
Certificate that the sum of Rs...................specified at serial No. 2-below is due from the person/persons specified at
serial No. 1 below on account of betterment charge. The aforesaid persons ordinarily reside and own
movable/immovable properties in the district.
You are, therefore, requested to recover from the aforesaid persons the said amount (along with expenses on recovery)
as arrears of land revenue and to remit the dues regarding the betterment charge as soon as possible within one month
from the date of recovery in the manner already requested by the Development Authority in the manner mentioned
hereinafter.
Details of claim
1. Name parentage ane permanent address of person or persons against whom the recovery on account of betterment
charge is due to be made.
2. Amount of the betterment charge to be recovered from each of the person/persons mentioned at serial No. 1.
3. Date when the said amount fell due.
Dated...........
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Allahabad Development Authority (The Time and Manner of Payment of Betterment Charge) ...
Signature with seal
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4