
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Aligarh Development Authority (Master Plan and Zonal Development Plans) Regulations, 1...
The Aligarh Development Authority (Master Plan and Zonal
Development Plans) Regulations, 1983
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/185905098/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Uttar Pradesh - Act
The Aligarh Development Authority (Master Plan and Zonal Development Plans) Regulations, 1983
UTTAR PRADESH
India
The Aligarh Development Authority (Master Plan and Zonal Development Plans) Regulations, 1983
Rule
THE-ALIGARH-DEVELOPMENT-AUTHORITY-MASTER-PLAN-AND-ZONAL-DEVELOPMENT-PLANS-REGULATIONS
-1983 of 1983
Published on 18 February 1984
Commenced on 18 February 1984
[This is the version of this document from 18 February 1984.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Aligarh Development Authority (Master Plan and Zonal Development Plans) Regulations, 1983
Published vide Notification No. 2334-XXXVII-2-154-DA-1980, doled February 17, 1984, published in U.P. Gazette,
(Extra), dated 18th February, 1984, pp.4.5]
032.
In exercise of the powers under clause (d) of sub-section (2) of Section 56 of the Uttar Pradesh Urban Planning and
Development Act, 1973 (President's Act
No. 11 of 1973
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Aligarh Development Authority (Master Plan and Zonal Development Plans) Regulations, 1...
), as re-enacted with modifications by the Uttar Pradesh President's Acts (Re-enactment with Modifications) Act, 1974
(U.P. Act No.30 of 1974), the following regulations are made by the Aligarh Development Authority, after previous
approval of the State Government, to regulate the procedure for carrying out the functions of the Development Authority
in the preparation and amendment of the Master Plan and Zonal Development Plans.
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These regulations may be called the Aligarh Development Authority (Master Plan and Zonal Development Plans)
Regulations, 1983.
(2)
They shall be applicable to the Aligarh Development Area.
(3)
They shall come into force with effect from the date of their publication in the Gazette.
2.
Formulation of Development plans.
- After declaration of the Development Area under Section 3 of the Act, the Development Authority shall collect the
necessary datas on the lines mentioned in Appendix I, for preparation of the Master Plan and the Zonal Development
Plans.
3.
Preparation of draft master plan.
- As soon as the matters indicated in Regulation 2 are finalised, the Development Authority shall get a draft Master Plan
prepared.
4.
Preparation of zonal development plans.
- Simultaneously with the preparation of the draft Master Plan or as soon as may be thereafter, the Development
Authority shall get draft Zonal Development Plans prepared incorporating besides other things the details given in
sub-section (2) of Section 9 of the Act.
5.
Notice.
- After the preparation of the draft Master Plan/Zonal Development Plans, the notice inviting objections against the draft
Master Plan/Zonal Development Plans shall be issued in Form 'A' appended to these Regulations which shall specify
the place where the said draft plans may be inspected.
6.
Publication of notice.
- The notice, referred to in Regulation 5, shall be published in at least two local papers and shall also be affixed on the
Notice Boards of the offices of the Development Authority, the Collector, the District Judge, the District Planning Officer
and on other important and conspicuous parts of the Development Area.
7.
A copy of the notice, referred to in Regulation 5, shall also be sent to the President of the Cantonment Board, if any, or
any other local authority within whose local limits and the land touched by the Plan is situated with a view to inviting
representation with respect to the Master Plan/Zonal Development Plans.
8.
On the date fixed in the notice or on any other adjourned date, the Development Authority shall consider the objections
received from any person and the representation if any received from a local authority and may also hear any such
person or representative of any local authority and shall, thereafter consider the draft Master Plan/Zonal Development
Plans and the objections and suggestions received in respect thereof. The Development Authority may then either reject
the objections and suggestions and the representation of the local authority, or may suggest modifications to be made in
the draft Master Plan/Zonal Development Plans and may modify the draft in the light of the objections', representation or
otherwise. The draft shall then be final.
9.
Submission of draft to State Government.
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Aligarh Development Authority (Master Plan and Zonal Development Plans) Regulations, 1...
- The finalised draft Master Plan/Zonal Development Plans shall thereafter be submitted by the Development Authority
to the State Government for approval.
10.
Approval of State Government.
- Where any modifications are suggested for approval of the draft Master Plan/Zonal Development Plans or where the
draft Master Plan/Zonal Development Plan is rejected by the State Government with directions under sub-section (2) of
Section 10 of the Act the Development Authority shall get the said modifications incorporated or shall get a fresh plan
prepared in accordance with such directions, as the case may be, and submit it again for the approval of the State
Government.
11.
Notice of approval of draft Master Plan/Zonal Development Plans.
- Notice of approval of draft Master Plan/Zonal Development Plans shall be published in such manner as the State
Government may specify and shall also specify the place where a copy of the plan may be inspected.
APPENDIX I
Datas necessary for formulation of draft Master Plan/Zonal Development Plans
1. Minute details in respect of -
(1)
the boundary of the Development Area;
(2)
Roads, Streets, lanes, water-lines, sewers, railway-lines, etc;
(3)
River, Nalas, etc. flowing through the city;
(4)
Lakes, reservoirs, etc.
(5)
Offices, Courts, Jails, Hospitals, Dispensaries, Schools, Charitable Institutions, Colleges, University, Medical College,
Stadium, etc.;
(6)
Colonies, and Mohallas, mohals, Hatas, etc;
(7)
Theatre, Cinema-halls, places of entertainment;
(8)
Historical Monuments;
(9)
Tourist Places.
2. Arterial streets and transportation lines;
3. Residential sections;
4. Business Areas;
5. Industrial Areas;
6. Public Parks, play-grounds, etc. and other recreational facilities;
7. Public and semi-public buildings.
8. Other land-uses which are necessary.
Form 'A'
(Under Regulation 5)
NOTICE
Dated..........
No. of the Aligarh Development Authority........................
Whereas the draft Master Plan/Zonal Development Plan of Aligarh Development Authority has been prepared and a
copy of the same shall be made available for inspection at.......................(mention the placde/places) ...
....................during office hours.
A notice as required under sub-section (1) of Section 11 of the Uttar Pradesh Urban Planning and Development Act, is
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Aligarh Development Authority (Master Plan and Zonal Development Plans) Regulations, 1...
being published for information of all persons likely to be affected thereby and with a view to inviting objections and
suggestions in respect thereof.
All objections and suggestions with regard to the draft Master Plan/Zonal Development Plan should be addressed and
sent in writing to the Vice-Chairman, Aligarh Development Authority in his office at............Only those objections and
suggestions which are received on or before..................day from the date of publication of this notice will be taken into
consideration on............or as soon as possible thereafter by the Development Authority.
Issued under signature and seal of the Vice-Chairman of Aligarh Development Authority on this....................day
of.................................19...................
Vice-Chairman,
Aligarh Development Authority
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4