
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Aligarh Development Authority (Fee For Inspection or Obtaining Copies of Documents and...
The Aligarh Development Authority (Fee For Inspection or Obtaining
Copies of Documents and Maps) Regulations, 1983
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/50946968/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Uttar Pradesh - Act
The Aligarh Development Authority (Fee For Inspection or Obtaining Copies of Documents and Maps) Regulations,
1983
UTTAR PRADESH
India
The Aligarh Development Authority (Fee For Inspection or Obtaining Copies of Documents and Maps) Regulations,
1983
Rule
THE-ALIGARH-DEVELOPMENT-AUTHORITY-FEE-FOR-INSPECTION-OR-OBTAINING-COPIES-OF-DOCUMENTS-A
ND-MAPS-REGULATIONS-1983 of 1983
Published on 6 February 1984
Commenced on 6 February 1984
[This is the version of this document from 6 February 1984.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Aligarh Development Authority (Fee For Inspection or Obtaining Copies of Documents and Maps) Regulations,
1983
Published vide Notifcation No. 7.648/XXXVII-2-5-DA (1)-81, dated 6th February, 1984, published in U.P. Gazette, Extra.,
dated 8th February, 1984, pp. 4 and 5.]
030.
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Aligarh Development Authority (Fee For Inspection or Obtaining Copies of Documents and...
The following regulations regarding the fee to be paid for inspection or obtaining copies of documents and maps of the
Authority are made in exercise of the powers under clause (h) of sub-section (2) of Section 56 of the Uttar Pradesh
Urban Planning and Development Act, 1973 (President's Act No. 11 of 1973) as re-enacted with modifications by the
Uttar Pradesh President's Acts. (Re-enactment with Modifications) Act, 1974 (U.P. Act No. 30 of 1974) by the Aligarh
Development Authority, after previous approval of the State Government, under sub-section (1) of Section 56 of the
aforesaid Act:
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These Regulations may be called the Aligarh Development Authority (Fee for Inspection or Obtaining Copies of
Documents and Maps) Regulations, 1983.
(2)
They shall come into force with effect from the date of their publication in the Gazette.
(3)
They shall be applicable to the Aligarh Development Area.
2.
Application.
- If a person wishes to inspect any record or document or to obtain any copy of any record or document, or extract
therefrom belonging to or in the possession of the Development Authority, he shall apply in writing to the Secretary and
where any other persons is named or authorised for the same, to the said person, stating clearly the description of the
said records or documents.
3.
Permission.
- Except as otherwise provided in these regulations, after getting the written permission of the Secretary or any other
person authorised for the same, a copy of any record or document or extract therefrom belonging to or in the possession
of the Development Authority shall be given and the inspection of any such record or document be allowed to any
person.
4.
Permission not to be given.
- No permission shall be given for the inspection of any correspondence between the Development Authority and the
Government, or any officer of the Government or in any case where the Secretary considers that public interest would
suffer by its disclosure. .
5.
Extracts not to be given. -
No extract from a document shall be given which when read apart from the rest of the file, is capable of misrepresenting
the final order passed by the Development Authority, Chairman or Vice-Chairman or Secretary or any other officer of the
Development Authority.
6.
Fees.
- The following fees shall be charged -
(1)
for inspection of any document or record other than a minute
book or assessment list -
(a) for the first hour or fraction of an hour ...
Rs.5.50
(b) for every subsequent hour or fraction thereof ...
Rs.2.00
(2)
for inspection of any index register for purposes of finding
or tracing any document for each year's search ...
Rs.5.50
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Aligarh Development Authority (Fee For Inspection or Obtaining Copies of Documents and...
(3)
for inspection of Register of Permission for the Development
regarding each permission ...
Rs.5.50
(4)
for inspection of the Register of Licences to Architects, etc,
regarding each licence ...
Rs.5.50
(5)
(i) for a copy of an ordinary petition or making extract from
may document or officer record ...
Rs.3.50
(a) for the first two hundred words or under - ...
Rs.3.50
(b) for every additional hundred words or fraction ...
Rs.2.00
(ii) in case the copy is required urgently ...
Rs.2.00
(iii) if original is in tabular form ...
Double the charges for (1) above
(6)
for Plans:
(i)
for a copy of a plan for which a tracing has to be prepared:
(a)
On Ferro Paper -@ Rs. 5.00 per square foot of Ferro paper or part thereof for the first copy and Rs. 0.75 per square foot
or part thereof for every additional copy.
(b)
On Ozalid Paper -@ Rs. 5.00 per square foot of Ozalid paper or part thereof for the first copy and Rs. 2.00 per square
foot or part thereof for every additional copy.
(ii)
for a copy of a plan for which a tracing exists in the Authority's office:
(a)
On Ferro Paper - Rs. 1.75 per square foot of ferro paper or part thereof.
(b)
On Ozalid Paper - Rs. 2.00 per square foot of Ozalid paper or part thereof.
Note. - In case an applicant wants copies of the plans urgently then in addition to the copying and other charges listed
above, additional fee of Rs. 5.00 per plan in case of clause (i) above and Rs. 2.00 per plan in the case of clause (ii)
above shall be charged.
7.
Proceedings of betterment charge.
(1)
Fee to be charged for a copy of the decisions of the Chairman under sub-section (4) of Section 36 of the Act, namely--
(i) for the first 200 words or under ...
Rs. 3.50
(ii) for every additional 100 words or fraction
...
Rs.2.00
(iii) in case the copy is required urgently ...
Double of the above rates.
(2)
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
The Aligarh Development Authority (Fee For Inspection or Obtaining Copies of Documents and...
Fee to be charged for inspection of any record pertaining to any proceedings regarding Betterment Charge when
permission to inspect is granted by the Chairman of Vice-Chairman, namely-
(i) for first hour ...
Rs.5.00
(ii) for subsequent hours ...
Rs. 3.00 per hour
8.
(1)
Orders made on applications requiring the copy urgently shall have priority over orders made on ordinary delivery
applications. Orders on urgent applications and orders or ordinary applications shall have strict priority amongst
themselves according to the date and serial number of such order.
(2)
A copy for which an order has been made on an urgent application shall be delivered, as a rule, not later than the
working day next after the day on which the order made.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4