
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Bareilly Development Authority (Holding of Meetings and Conduct of Business) Regulatio...
The Bareilly Development Authority (Holding of Meetings and
Conduct of Business) Regulations, 1983
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/116592332/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Uttar Pradesh - Act
The Bareilly Development Authority (Holding of Meetings and Conduct of Business) Regulations, 1983
UTTAR PRADESH
India
The Bareilly Development Authority (Holding of Meetings and Conduct of Business) Regulations, 1983
Rule
THE-BAREILLY-DEVELOPMENT-AUTHORITY-HOLDING-OF-MEETINGS-AND-CONDUCT-OF-BUSINESS-REGULAT
IONS-1983 of 1983
Published on 3 April 1984
Commenced on 3 April 1984
[This is the version of this document from 3 April 1984.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Bareilly Development Authority (Holding of Meetings and Conduct of Business) Regulations, 1983
Published in U.P. Gazette, Extra., dated 3rd April, 1984, Vide Notification No. 4752/37-2-130 DA-80, dated 31st March,
1984
In pursuance of the provisions of clause (a) of sub-section (2) of Section 56 of the Uttar Pradesh Urban Planning and
Development Act, 1973(President's Act No. 11 of 1973) as re-enacted with modifications by the Uttar Pradesh
President's Acts (Re-enactment with Modifications) Act, 1974 (U.P. Act No. 30 of 1974), the Bareilly Development
Authority makes the following regulations with the previous approval of State Government with a view to regulate the
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Bareilly Development Authority (Holding of Meetings and Conduct of Business) Regulatio...
administration of the affairs of the Authority:
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These regulations may be called the Bareilly Development Authority (Holding of Meetings and Conduct of Business)
Regulations, 1983.
(2)
They shall come into force with effect from the date of approval of the State Government.
2.
Power to call the meeting and fixing the date, time and place.
- The Secretary of the Bareilly Development Authority (hereinafter, in these regulations, called the Authority), with the
permission of the Chairman and in his absence with the permission of the Vice-Chairman, shall call the meeting on such
date, time and place as is fixed by the Chairman or the Vice-Chairman, as the case may be.
3.
Ordinary meeting.
- Ordinarily a meeting of the Authority shall be held once in a quarter for the transaction of business.
4.
Extraordinary meeting.
- The Chairman or the Vice-Chairman may whenever he thinks fit, and shall upon the written request of not less than
four members, call an extraordinary meeting.
5.
Notice of the meeting.
- The Secretary shall send notice of the meeting to every member alongwith the agenda. In the case of ordinary
meeting, notice shall be served at least 3 days before the date of the meeting and in case of extraordinary meeting at
least 24 hours before the meeting.
6.
Quorum of the meeting.
- No business shall be transacted at any meeting unless at least four members are present from the beginning to the
end of the meeting.
7.
Person presiding over the meeting.
- The Chairman, and in his absence the Vice-Chairman, shall preside over the meeting.
8.
Manner of taking decision.
- All matters shall be decided by a majority of the members present and voting at the meeting. The person presiding
over the meeting shall have the second or the casting vote in all cases of equality of votes.
9.
Recording of the minutes.
- The Secretary of the Authority shall write the names of members attending the meeting and record the proceedings of
the meeting in the register which, at the end of the meeting, shall be signed and verified by the person presiding over the
meeting. It shall be open to inspection by any member during office hours.
10.
Confirmation of the minutes.
- The minutes shall be confirmed at the next meeting.
11.
Decision taken by the Chairman.
- The decision of the Chairman in respect of any dispute arising out or in connection with the conduct of business of the
meeting shall be final.
12.
Person other than the member may attend the meeting.
- Any specialist or person considered useful may be called in the meeting of the Authority on special invitation with the
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Bareilly Development Authority (Holding of Meetings and Conduct of Business) Regulatio...
permission of the Chairman or Vice-Chairman, as the case may be, and he shall attend the meeting but shall not have
right to vote.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3