
----- PAGE 1 -----
U.P. Board of Technical Education (Rotation and Term of Office of Members) Rules, 1986
U.P. Board of Technical Education (Rotation and Term of Office of
Members) Rules, 1986
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/112283619/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Uttar Pradesh - Act
U.P. Board of Technical Education (Rotation and Term of Office of Members) Rules, 1986
UTTAR PRADESH
India
U.P. Board of Technical Education (Rotation and Term of Office of Members) Rules, 1986
Rule U-P-BOARD-OF-TECHNICAL-EDUCATION-ROTATION-AND-TERM-OF-OFFICE-OF-MEMBERS-RULES-1986 of
1986
Published on 1 January 1986
Commenced on 1 January 1986
[This is the version of this document from 1 January 1986.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
U.P. Board of Technical Education (Rotation and Term of Office of Members) Rules, 1986
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These Rules may be called the Uttar Pradesh Board of Technical Education (Rotation and Term of Office of the
Members) Rules, 1986.
(2)
They shall come into force with effect from the date of their publication in the Gazette.
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
U.P. Board of Technical Education (Rotation and Term of Office of Members) Rules, 1986
2.
Representation of Technical Institutions; Manner of Rotation. [Section 4 (1) (xiv)].
(1)
For the purpose of representation, by rotation on the Uttar Pradesh Board of Technical Education (hereinafter to be
referred to as the Board) in accordance with Clause (xiv) of sub-section (1) of Section 4 of the Uttar Pradesh Pravidhik
Shiksha Adhiniyam, 1962 (hereinafter referred to ps the said Adhiniyam) the names of Principal in each of the following
category of institutions shall be arranged in order of seniority as determined on the basis of length of continuous service
(including temporary service) as Principal :
(a)
Secondary Technical Schools, Girls Polytechnics and Diploma institutions offering Technological courses in Textile
Techno-logy, Textile Chemistry, Architectural Assistantship, Leather Technology and Printing Technology.
(b)
Government Institutions offering Diploma Courses other than those given in category (a).
(c)
Aided Institutions offering Diploma Courses other than those given in category (a).
(2)
One Principal each from category (a) and (c) and two from category (b), taken from the said categories by rotation shall
serve on the Board.
(3)
The Director of Technical Education, Uttar Pradesh shall forward to the Board the names of such Principals in the
manner specified under Rule 2 above.
3.
Representation of Universities; Manner of Rotation. [Section 4 (1) (xv)].
(1)
For the purpose of representation by rotation on the Board in accordance with clause (xv) of sub-section (1) of Section 4
of the said Adhiniyam, the names of existing Universities shall be arranged in the following order followed by name(s) of
University/Universities, having faculty of Engineering or Technology, that may be established by law under an Uttar
Pradesh Act:
(1)
University of Allahabad, Allahabad.
(2)
Kanpur University, Kanpur.
(3)
Gorakhpur University, Gorakhpur.
(4)
Govind Ballabh Pant Krishi Evam Prodyogik Vishwavidyalaya, Pantnagar, Nainital.
(5)
The Avadh University, Fajzabad.
(6)
The Roorkee University, Roorkee, and
(7)
Lucknow University, Lucknow.
(2)
At any time five Universities shall be represented on the Board. In the first instance, the representatives of first five
Universities shall be the members of the Board and on the expiry of their term the representatives of the Universities
from serial numbers (2) to (7) shall be members of the Board and soon.
4.
Term of office. [Section 6 (1) (b)].
- The term of office of the members shall be three years.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2