
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Greater Nainital Development Authority (Holding of Meetings and Conduct of Business) R...
The Greater Nainital Development Authority (Holding of Meetings and
Conduct of Business) Regulations, 1986
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/138951135/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Uttar Pradesh - Act
The Greater Nainital Development Authority (Holding of Meetings and Conduct of Business) Regulations, 1986
UTTAR PRADESH
India
The Greater Nainital Development Authority (Holding of Meetings and Conduct of Business) Regulations, 1986
Rule
THE-GREATER-NAINITAL-DEVELOPMENT-AUTHORITY-HOLDING-OF-MEETINGS-AND-CONDUCT-OF-BUSINESS
-REGULATIONS-1986 of 1986
Published on 28 January 1986
Commenced on 28 January 1986
[This is the version of this document from 28 January 1986.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Greater Nainital Development Authority (Holding of Meetings and Conduct of Business) Regulations, 1986
Published vide Notification No. 4969/11-5-69 Miss-85, dated January 28, 1986 published in the U.P. Gazette,
Extraordinary, part 4, Section (kha), dated 28th January, 1986, pages 2-3
In exercise of the powers under sub-section (1) read with clause (a) of sub-section (2) of Section 56 of the Uttar Pradesh
Urban Planning and Development Act, 1973 (President's Act
No. 11 of 1973
) as re-enacted with modifications by the Uttar Pradesh President's Act (Re-enactment with Modifications) Act, (U.P. Act
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Greater Nainital Development Authority (Holding of Meetings and Conduct of Business) R...
No. 30 of 1974), the Greater Nainital Development Authority makes the following regulations with the previous approval
of State Government and with a view to regulating the administration of the affairs of the said authority :
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These Regulations may be called the Greater Nainital Development Authority (Holding of Meetings and Conduct of
Business) Regulations, 1986.
(2)
They shall come into force with effect from the date of their publication in the Gazette.
2.
Power to call the meeting and fixing the date, time and place.
- The Secretary of the Greater Nainital Development Authority (hereinafter, in these regulations, are called the
Authority), with the permission of the Chairman, and in his absence with the permission of the Vice-Chairman, shall call
the meeting on such date, time and place as is fixed by the Chairman or the Vice-Chairman, as the case may be.
3.
Ordinary meeting.
- A meeting of the Authority shall ordinarily be held once in a quarter, for the transaction of business.
4.
Extraordinary meeting.
- The Chairman or the Vice-Chairman may whenever he thinks fit, and shall upon the written request of not less than
four members, call an extraordinary meeting.
5.
Notice of the meeting.
- The Secretary shall send notice of the meeting to every member along with the agenda. In the case of ordinary
meeting, notice shall be served at least 3 days before the date of the meeting and in case of extraordinary meeting at
least 24 hours before the meeting.
6.
Quorum of the meeting.
- No business shall be transacted at any meeting unless at least four members are present from the beginning to the
end of the meeting.
7.
Person presiding over the meeting.
- The Chairman, and in his absence the Vice-Chairman, shall preside over the meeting.
8.
Manner of taking decision.
- All matters shall be decided by a majority of the members present and voting at the meeting. The person presiding
over the meeting shall have the right of the second or casting vote in all cases of equality of votes.
9.
Recording of the minutes.
- The Secretary of the Authority shall write the names of members attending the meeting and record the proceedings of
the meeting in the register which, at the end of the meeting, shall be signed and verified by the person presiding over the
meeting. It shall be open to inspection by any member during office hours.
10.
Confirmation of the minutes.
- The minutes shall be confirmed at the next meeting.
11.
Decision taken by the Chairman.
- The decision of the Chairman in respect of any dispute arising out or in connection with the conduct of business of the
meeting shall be final.
12.
Person other than the member may attend the meeting.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Greater Nainital Development Authority (Holding of Meetings and Conduct of Business) R...
- Any specialist or person considered useful may be called in the meeting of the Authority on special invitation with the
permission of the Chairman or Vice-Chairman, as the case may, and he shall attend the meeting but shall not have right
to vote.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3