
----- PAGE 1 -----
The U.P. Public Services (Reservation For Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes And Other Bac...
The U.P. Public Services (Reservation For Scheduled Castes,
Scheduled Tribes And Other Backward Classes) Act, 1994
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/15016176/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
15
]
State of Uttar Pradesh - Act
The U.P. Public Services (Reservation For Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes And Other Backward Classes) Act,
1994
UTTAR PRADESH
India
The U.P. Public Services (Reservation For Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes And Other Backward Classes) Act,
1994
Act 4 of 1994
Published on 23 March 1994
Commenced on 23 March 1994
[This is the version of this document from 23 March 1994.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The U.P. Public Services (Reservation For Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes And Other Backward Classes) Act,
1994
(U.P. Act No. 4 Of 1994)
Statement Of Objects And Reasons - The reservations in the public services in connection with the affairs of the State in
favour of physically handicapped, dependents of freedom fighters and ex-servicemen were 2 per cent, 5 per cent and 8
per cent respectively and were so far regulated by the Government Orders issued from time to time. In view of the
Supreme Court judgment dated November 16, 1992 in Indra Sawhney v. Union of India, 1992 Supp. (3) SCC 217,
Page 1/12
----- PAGE 2 -----
The U.P. Public Services (Reservation For Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes And Other Bac...
increase in reservation in favour of backward classes of citizens up to 27 per cent, and consequent reduction of
reservation in favour of the said categories of persons was considered necessary. It was decided that five per cent
vacancies should be reserved in favour of the said categories of persons and the respective quota of the said categories
should be such as may be decided by orders of the State Government issued from time to time. It was also considered
necessary to regulate the said reservations by an enactment like that of the enactment for the reservation in favour of
backward classes of citizens.
Since the State legislature was not in session and immediate legislative action in the matter was necessary the Uttar
Pradesh Public Services (Reservation for Physically Handicapped etc.) Ordinance, 1993 (U.P Ordinance No. 4 of 1993)
was promulgated by the Governor on December 11,1993.
This Bill is introduced to replace the aforesaid Ordinance.
(As passed by the U.P. Legislature)
[March 22, 1994]
Received the assent of the Governor on 22.03.1994 and published in the U.P. Gazette, Extraordinary, Part I, Section
(Ka) dated 23.03.1994.
An Act to provide for the reservation in public services and posts in favour of the persons belonging to the Scheduled
Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes of citizens and for matters connected therewith or incidental
thereto.
It is hereby enacted in the Forty-fifth year of the Republic of India as follows:
1.
Short title and commencement. -
(1)
This Act may be called the Uttar Pradesh Public Services (Reservation for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and
Other Backward Classes) Act, 1994.
(2)
It shall be deemed to have come into force on December 11,1993.
2.
Definitions. -
In this Act, -
(a)
"appointing authority" in relation to public services and posts means the authority empowered to make appointment to
such services or posts :
(b)
[ "Other Backward Classes of citizens" means the backward classes of citizens specified in Schedule I;]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 1 of 2002 (w.e.f. 15.09.2001).]
[x x x]
[Clauses (b-1), (b-2) and (b-3) omitted by U.P. Act No. 1 of 2002.]
(c)
"public services and posts" means the services and posts in connection with the affairs of the State and includes
services and posts in -
(i)
a local authority;
(ii)
a co-operative society as defined in clause (f) of Section 2 of the Uttar Pradesh Co-operative Societies Act, 1965 in
which not less than fifty-one per cent of the share capital of the society is held by the State Government;
(iii)
a Board or a Corporation or a statutory body established by or under a Central or a Uttar Pradesh Act which is owned
and controlled by the State Government, or a Government company as defined in Section 617 of the Companies Act,
1956 in which not less than fifty-one per cent of the paid-up share capital is held by the State Government;
(iv)
an educational institution owned and controlled by the State Government or which receives grants-in-aid from the State
Government, including a university established by or under a Uttar Pradesh Act, except an institution established and
Page 2/12
----- PAGE 3 -----
The U.P. Public Services (Reservation For Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes And Other Bac...
administered by minorities referred to in clause (1) of Article 30 of the Constitution;
(v)
respect of which reservation was applicable by Government Orders on the date of the commencement of this Act and
which are not covered under sub-clauses (i) to (iv);
(d)
"year of recruitment" in relation to a vacancy means a period of twelve months commencing on the first of July of a year
within which the process of direct recruitment against such vacancy is initiated.
3.
Reservation in favour of Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes. -
[(1) In public services and posts, there shall be reserved at the stage of direct recruitment, the following percentage of
vacancies to which recruitment's are to be made in accordance with the roster referred to in sub-section (5) in favour of
the persons belonging to Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes of citizens, -
(a)
in the case of Scheduled Castes
Twenty-one per cent;
(b)
in the case of Scheduled Tribes
Two per cent;
(c)
in case of Other Backward Classes of citizens
Twenty-seven per cent:
Provided that the reservation under clause (c) shall not apply to the category of Other Backward Classes of citizens
specified in Schedule II:
Provided further that reservation of vacancies for all categories of persons shall not exceed in any year of recruitment
fifty per cent of the total vacancies of that year as also fifty per cent of the cadre strength of the service to which the
recruitment is to be made;
(2)
If, in respect of any year of recruitment any vacancy reserved for any category of persons under sub-section (1) remains
unfilled, such vacancy shall be carried forward and be filled through special recruitment in that very year or in
succeeding year or years of recruitment as a separate class of vacancy and such class of vacancy shall not be
considered together with the vacancies of the year of recruitment in which it is filled and also for the purpose of
determining the ceiling of fifty per cent reservation of the total vacancies of that year notwithstanding anything to the
contrary contained in sub-section (1);]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 1 of 2002.]
(3)
[ Where a suitable candidate belonging to the Scheduled Tribes on Scheduled Castes, as the case may be, is not
available in a recruitment either under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) the vacancy reserved for him may be filled in
such recruitment, from amongst the suitable candidates belonging to the Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes, as the
case may be, and as soon as a vacancy earmarked in the losses referred to in sub-section (5) for the Scheduled Castes
or Scheduled Tribes, as the case may be, arises such person belonging to Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes, as
the case may be, shall be adjusted against such vacancy of his own category.]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 45 of 2007 (w.e.f. 25.08.2007).]
[x x x]
[Sub-section (3-A) and (3-B) omitted by U.P. Act No. 1 of 2002.]
(4)
[x x x]
[Sub-section (4) omitted by U.P. Act No. 1 of 2002.]
(5)
[ The State Government shall for applying the reservation under subsection (1), by a notified order, issue a roster
comprising the total cadre strength of the public service or post indicating therein the reserve points and the roster so
issued shall be implemented in the form of a running account from year to year until the reservation for various
Page 3/12
----- PAGE 4 -----
The U.P. Public Services (Reservation For Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes And Other Bac...
categories of persons mentioned in sub-section (1) is achieved and the operation of the roster and the running account
shall, thereafter, come to an end, and when a vacancy arises thereafter in public service or post the same shall be filled
from amongst the persons belonging to the category to which the post belongs in the roster.]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 1 of 2002.]
(6)
If a person belonging to any of the categories mentioned in subsection (1) gets selected on the basis of merit in an open
competition with general candidates, he shall not be adjusted against the vacancies reserved for such category under
sub-section (1).
(7)
If, on the date of commencement of this Act, reservation was in force under Government Orders for appointment to
posts to be filled by promotion, such Government Orders shall continue to be applicable till they are modified or revoked.
4.
Responsibility and powers for compliance of the Act. -
(1)
The State Government may by notified order, entrust the appointing authority or any officer or employee with the
responsibility of ensuring the compliance of the provisions of this Act.
(2)
The State Government may in the like manner, invest the appointing authority or officer or employee referred to in
sub-section (1) with such powers or authority as may be necessary for effectively discharging the responsibility
entrusted to him under sub-section (1).
5.
Penalty. -
(1)
Any appointing authority, or officer or employee entrusted with the responsibility under sub-section (1) of Section 4 who
wilfully acts in a manner intended to contravene or defeat the purposes of this Act shall, on conviction, be punishable
with imprisonment which may extend to three months or with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees or with
both.
(2)
No Court shall take cognizance of an offence under this section except with the previous sanction of the State
Government or an officer authorised in this behalf by the State Government by an order.
(3)
An offence punishable under sub-section (1) shall be tried summarily by a Metropolitan Magistrate or a Judicial
Magistrate of the first class and the provisions of sub-section (1) of Section 262, Section 263, Section 264 and Section
265 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 shall mutatis mutandis apply.
6.
Power to call for record. -
If it comes to the notice of the State Government, that any person belonging to any of the categories mentioned in
sub-section (1) of Section 3 has been adversely affected on account of non-compliance of the provisions of this Act or
the rules made thereunder or the Government Orders in this behalf by the appointing authority, it may call for such
records and take such action as it may consider necessary.
7.
Representation in Selection Committee. -
The State Government may, by order, provide for nomination of officers for giving representation to the Scheduled
Castes, Scheduled Tribes, and Other Backward Classes of citizens in the Selection Committee to such extent and in
such manner as it may consider necessary where such Committee is constituted either under the service rules or
otherwise.
8.
Concession and relaxation. -
(1)
The State Government may, in favour of the categories of persons mentioned in sub-section (1) of Section 3, by order,
grant such concessions in respect of fees for any competitive examination or interview, and relaxation in upper age limit,
Page 4/12
----- PAGE 5 -----
The U.P. Public Services (Reservation For Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes And Other Bac...
as it may consider necessary.
(2)
The Government Orders in force on the date of the commencement of this Act, in respect of concessions and
relaxations, including concession in fees for any competitive examination or interview and relaxation in upper age limit
and those relating-to reservation in direct recruitment and promotion, in favour of categories of persons referred to in
sub-section (1), which are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, shall continue to be applicable till they are
modified or revoked, as the case may be.
9.
Caste certificate. -
For the purposes of reservation provided under this Act, caste certificate shall be issued by such authority or officer in
such manner and form as the State Government may, by order, provide.
10.
Removal of difficulties. -
If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the State Government may, by a notified order, make
such provisions not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act as appears to it, to be necessary or expedient for
removing the difficulty.
11.
Protection of action taken in good faith. -
No suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall lie against the State Government or any person for anything which
is in good faith done or intended to be done, in pursuance of this Act or the rules made thereunder.
12.
Power to make rules. -
The State Government may, by notification, make rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act.
13.
Power to amend the Schedules. -
The State Government may, by notification, amend the Schedules and upon the publication of such notification in the
Gazette, the Schedules shall be deemed to be amended accordingly.
14.
Laying of Orders etc. -
Every order made under sub-section (5) of Section 3, sub-section (1) and (2) of Section 4 and Section 10 and every
notification issued under Section 13 shall be laid, as soon as may be, before both the Houses of State Legislature and
the provisions of sub-section (1) of Section 23-A of the Uttar Pradesh General Clauses Act, 1904 shall apply as they
apply in respect of rules made by the State Government under any Uttar Pradesh Act.
15.
Savings. -
(1)
The provisions of this Act shall not apply to cases in which selection process has been initiated before the
commencement of this Act and such cases shall be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of law and Government
Orders as they stood before such commencement.
Explanation. - For the purposes of this sub-section the selection process shall be deemed to have been initiated where,
under the relevant service rules, recruitment is to be made on the basis of -
(i)
written test or interview only, the written test or the interview, as the case may be, has started, or
(ii)
both written test and interview, the written test has started.
(2)
The provisions of this Act shall not apply to the appointment, to be made under the Uttar Pradesh Recruitment of
Dependent of Government servant Dying-in-Harness Rules, 1974.
16.
Repeal and savings. -
(1)
Page 5/12
----- PAGE 6 -----
The U.P. Public Services (Reservation For Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes And Other Bac...
The Uttar Pradesh Public Services (Reservation for Backward Classes) Act, 1989 (U.P. Act No. 21 of 1989), the Uttar
Pradesh Public Services (Reservation for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes) Act, 1993 (U.P. Act No. of 1993)
and the Uttar Pradesh Public Services (Reservation for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward
Classes) Ordinance, 1994 (U.P. Ordinance No. 5 of 1994) are hereby repealed.
(2)
Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken under the provisions of the Acts and the Ordinance
referred to in sub-section (1), shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the corresponding provisions of this
Act as if the provisions of this Act were in force at all material times.
[SCHEDULE - I]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 1 of 2002.]
[See Section 2( b)]
1.
Ahir, Yadav, Gwala, Yaduvanshiya
17.
Kasgar
2.
Sonar, Sunar, Swamkar
18.
Kunjra or Raeen
3.
Jat
19.
Gareria, Pal, Vaghel
4.
Kurmi, Chanau, Patel, Patanwar, Kurmi-Mall, Kurmi-Seinthwar
20.
Gaddi, Ghoshi
5.
Girl
21.
Chikwa, Qassab Qureshi, Chak
6.
Gujar
22.
Chhippi, Chipa
7.
Gosain
23.
Jogi
8.
Lodh, Lodha, Lodhi, Lot, Lodhi-Rajput
24.
Jhoja
9.
Kamboj
25.
Dhafali
10.
Arakh, Arakvanshiya
26.
Taraoli, Barai, Chaurasia
Page 6/12
----- PAGE 7 -----
The U.P. Public Services (Reservation For Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes And Other Bac...
11.
Kachchi, Kachchi-Kushwaha, Shakya
27.
Teli, Samani, Rogangar, Sahu, Rauniar, Guanahi, Arrak
12.
[x x x]
[Omitted by Notification No. 4.1.2002-Ka-2/2005, dated 10.10.2005 published in the U.P. Gazette, Extraordinary, Part 4,
Section (Kha) dated 10.10.2005.]
28.
Darji, Idrisi, Kakutstha
13.
[x x x]
[Omitted by Notification No. 4.1.2002-Ka-2/2005, dated 10.10.2005 published in the U.P. Gazette, Extraordinary, Part 4,
Section (Kha) dated 10.10.2005.]
29.
[x x x]
[Omitted by Notification No. 4.1.2002-Ka-2/2005, dated 10.10.2005 published in the U.P Gazette, Extraordinary, Part 4,
Section (Kha) dated 10.10.2005.]
14.
Kisan
30.
Naqqal
15.
Koeri
31.
Nat (Those not included in Scheduled Castes category)
16.
[x x x]
[Omitted by Notification No. 4.1.2002-Ka-2/2005, dated 10.10.2005 published in the U.P. Gazette, Extraordinary, Part 4,
Section (Kha) dated 10.10.2005.]
32.
Naik
33.
Faqir
54.
Kasera, Thathera, Tamrakar
34.
Banjara, Ranki, Mukeri, Mukerani
55.
Nanbai
56.
Mirshikar
35.
Barhai, Saifi, Vishwakarma, Panchal, Ramgadhiya, Jangir, Dhiman
57.
Shekh Sarwari (Pirai), Peerahi
58.
Mev, Mewati
36.
Bari
59.
Page 7/12
----- PAGE 8 -----
The U.P. Public Services (Reservation For Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes And Other Bac...
Koshta/Koshti
37.
Beragi
60.
Ror
38.
[x x x]
[Omitted by Notification No. 4.1.2002-Ka-2/2005, dated 10.10.2005 published in the U.P. Gazette, Extraordinary, Part 4,
Section (Kha) dated 10.10.2005.]
61.
Khumra, Sangatarash, Han-siri
39.
Biyar
62.
Mochi
40.
[x x x]
[Omitted by Notification No. 4.1.2002-Ka-2/2005, dated 10.10.2005 published in the U.P. Gazette, Extraordinary, Part 4,
Section (Kha) dated 10.10.2005.]
63.
Khagi
41.
Bhurji, Bharbhunja, Bhooj, Kandu, Kashaudhan
64.
Tan war Singharia
42.
Bhathiara
65.
Katuwa
43.
Mali, Saini
66.
Maheegeer
44.
Sweeper (Those not included in Scheduled Caste Category), Halalkhor
67.
Dangi
68.
Dhakar
45.
Lohar, Lohar-Saifi
69.
Gada
46.
Lonia, Nonia, Gole-Thakur, Lonia-Chauhan
70.
Tantawa
47.
Rangrez, Rangwa
71.
Joria
Page 8/12
----- PAGE 9 -----
The U.P. Public Services (Reservation For Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes And Other Bac...
48.
Marchcha
72.
Patwa, Patahara, Patehara, Deovanshi
49.
Halwai, Modanwal
73.
Kalal, Kalwar, Kalar
50.
Hajjam, nai, Salmani, Savita, Sriwas
74.
Manihar, Kacher Lakhara
51.
Rai Sikh
75.
Murao, Murai, Maurya
52.
Sakka-Bhisti, Bhisti-Abbasi
76.
Momin (Ansar)
77.
Muslim Kayastha
53.
Dhobi (Those not included in the Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes category)
78.
Mirasi
79.
Naddaf (Dhuniya), Man-soori, Kandere, Kadera, Karan (Kam).
[PART-II
[Inserted by Notification No. 4.1.2002-Ka-2/2005 dated 10.10.2005, published in the U.P. Gazette, Extraordinary, Part 4,
Section (Kha), dated 10.10.2005.]
Backward classes of citizen who shall be deemed to be, and entitled to get benefit of, scheduled castes instead of
Backward Class under the Act.
1. Kahar, Kashyap
2. Kewat, Mallah, Nishad
3. Kumhar, Prajapati
4. Dhiver
5. Bind
6. Bhar, Rajbhar
PART-III
Following classes of citizens shall be deemed to be and entitled to get benefit of Scheduled Castes under the Act:
1. Dheemar
2. Batham
3. Turha
4. Gaud
5. Manjhi
6. Machhua.]
[SCHEDULE - II]
[Substituted by U.P. Act No. 2 of 2001 (w.e.f. 15.09.2001).]
[See Section 3(1)]
I. Constitutional Posts :-
Page 9/12
----- PAGE 10 -----
The U.P. Public Services (Reservation For Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes And Other Bac...
Son or daughter of a person who is [x x x]
[The words 'or has been' omitted by U.P. Act No. 1 of 2002.]
(a)
the President of India;
(b)
the Vice-President of India;
(c)
the Judges of the Supreme Court or High Courts;
(d)
the Chairman or Member of the Union Public Service Commission or the State Public Service Commission, the Chief
Election Commissioner or the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India;
(e)
On any other constitutional post of like nature.
II. Service Category :-
(A)
Group A or Class I officers of the All India, Central and State Services (Direct Recruits).
Son or daughter of :-
(a)
parents, both of whom are Group A or Class I officers;
(b)
parents, either of whom is a Group A or Class I officer;
(c)
parents, both of whom are Group A or Class I officers, but one of them dies or suffers permanent incapacitation;
(d)
parents, either of whom is a Group A or Class I officer and such parent dies or suffers permanent incapacitation and
before such death or such incapacitation has had the benefit of employment in any International Organisation, such as,
the United Nations, the International Monetary Fund, World Bank, etc. for a period of not less than five years; and
(e)
parents, both of whom are Group A or Class I officers and such parents die or suffer permanent incapacitation and
before such death or such incapacitation of the both, either of them has had the benefit of employment in any
International Organization such as the United Nations, the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank etc. for a period
of not less than five years.
(B)
Group B or Class II officers of the Central and State Services (Direct Recruits)
Son or daughter or :-
(a)
parents, both of whom are Group B or Class II officers;
(b)
parents of whom only the father is a Group B or Class II officer and he gets into Group A or Class I at the age of forty
years or earlier;
(c)
parents, both of whom are Group B or Class II officers and one of them dies or suffers permanent incapacitation and
either one of them has had the benefit of employment in any International Organisation, such as, the United Nations, the
International Monetary Fund, the World Bank etc. for a period of not less than five years before such death or permanent
incapacitation;
(d)
parents of whom the father is a Group A or Class I officer (direct recruit or pre-forty promoted) and the mother is a Group
B or Class II officer and the mother dies or suffers permanent incapacitation; and
(e)
parents of whom the mother is a Group A or Class I officer (direct recruit or pre-forty promoted) and the father is Group
B or Class II officer and the father dies or suffers permanent incapacitation.
Page 10/12
----- PAGE 11 -----
The U.P. Public Services (Reservation For Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes And Other Bac...
Explanation. - Tor the purposes of this category it is clarified that the expression, "permanent incapacitation" means
incapacitation which results in putting an officer out of service.
(C)
Employees in Public Sector Undertakings :-
The criteria specified in sub-category (A) and (B) above shall apply mutatis mutandis to officers holding equivalent or
comparable posts in Public Sector Undertakings, Banks, Insurance Organisation, Universities etc. and also to equivalent
or comparable posts and positions under private employment pending the evaluation of the posts on equivalent or
comparable basis in these institutions, the criteria specified in Category IV below shall apply to the officers in these
institutions.
III. Armed Force including Para Military Forces (Persons holding civil posts are not included).
Son or daughter of parents, either or both of whom are in the rank of Colonel and above in the Anny or to equivalent
posts in the Navy, the Air Force and Para Military Forces.
Explanation. - For the purposes of this category the service ranks below Colonel of father and mother shall not be
clubbed together.
IV. Professional class and those engaged in Trade and Industry
The criteria specified in Category VI below shall apply to :-
(A)
The persons engaged in profession as a doctor, lawyer, chartered accountant, Income tax consultant, dental surgeon,
engineer, architect, film artist and other film professional, author, playwright, sports persons, sport professional, media
professional or any other vocations of like status; and
(B)
the persons engaged in trade, business and industry,
Explanation. - (i) Where the father is in any profession and the mother is in a Group B or Class II or lower grade
employment, the criteria specified in Category VI below shall apply only on the basis of the father's income and the
mother's income shall not be clubbed with it.
(ii)
Where the mother is in any profession and the father is in a Group B or Class II or lower grade employment, the criteria
specified in Category VI below shall apply only on the basis of the mother's income and the father's income shall not be
clubbed with it.
V. Property owners
(A)
Agricultural holdings. - -Son or daughter of parents, either of whom together with his family, which includes self, his
spouse and minor children, holds -
(a)
only irrigated land which is equal to or more than eighty-five per cent of the statutory ceiling limit, or
(b)
both irrigated and unirrigated land, where the irrigated land (having been brought to a single type under a common
denominator) is not less than forty per cent of the statutory ceiling limit for the irrigated land, the unirrigated land shall be
converted into the irrigated land on the basis of the existing conversion formula and the irrigated area so computed shall
be added to the actual area of the irrigated land and the total area so arrived at in terms of irrigated land is equal to or
more than eighty per cent of the statutory ceiling limit for irrigated land
Explanation. - The terms "statutory ceiling limit" and "conversion formula" shall be construed in accordance with the law
relating to ceiling on the land holdings of that area in which the land in question is situated.
(B)
Plantations :-
(1)
Coffee, tea, rubber etc.
The criteria specified in the Category VI below shall apply.
(2)
Mango, citrus, apple etc.
The land of such plantations shall be deemed to be agricultural holding and the criteria specified under sub-category (A)
Page 11/12
----- PAGE 12 -----
The U.P. Public Services (Reservation For Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes And Other Bac...
above shall apply.
(C)
Vacant land or buildings in urban area or urban agglomerations. - The criteria specified in Category VI below shall apply.
Explanation. - For the purposes of this sub-category it is clarified that building may be used for residential, commercial or
industrial purpose and the like two or more such purposes.
VI. Income or Wealth Criteria
Son or daughter of -
(a)
[ the persons having gross annual income of Rupees Five Lakh or above or possessing wealth above the exemption
limit as prescribed in the Wealth Tax Act, 1957 for a period of three consecutive years.]
[Substituted by Notification No. 22/XVI/92-T.C. III dated 20.10.2008, published in the U.P. Gazette, Extraordinary, Part
4, section (Kha) dated 20.10.2008.]
(b)
the persons specified in Categories I, II, III or V(A) who are not disentitled to the benefit of reservation but have income
from other sources which will bring them within the criteria specified in sub-category (a) above.
Explanation. - For the purposes of this category it is clarified that -
(i)
Income from salaries or agricultural land shall not be clubbed;
(ii)
The income criteria in terms of rupee shall be modified taking into account the change in its value every three years. If
the situation, however, so demands, the interregnum may be less.
III
[x x x]
[Omitted by U.P. Act No. 1 of 2002.]
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 12/12