
----- PAGE 1 -----
U.P. State Election Commission (Panchayat Raj and Local Bodies) (Appointment and Condition...
U.P. State Election Commission (Panchayat Raj and Local Bodies)
(Appointment and Conditions of Service) Rules, 1994
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/85304279/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Uttar Pradesh - Act
U.P. State Election Commission (Panchayat Raj and Local Bodies) (Appointment and Conditions of Service) Rules,
1994
UTTAR PRADESH
India
U.P. State Election Commission (Panchayat Raj and Local Bodies) (Appointment and Conditions of Service) Rules,
1994
Rule
U-P-STATE-ELECTION-COMMISSION-PANCHAYAT-RAJ-AND-LOCAL-BODIES-APPOINTMENT-AND-CONDITIONS-
OF-SERVICE-RULES-1994 of 1994
Published on 23 April 1994
Commenced on 23 April 1994
[This is the version of this document from 23 April 1994.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
U.P. State Election Commission (Panchayat Raj and Local Bodies) (Appointment and Conditions of Service) Rules,
1994
Published vide Notification No. 2156/33-1-94-93-93, dated 23rd April, 1994 and published in the U.P. Gazette
(Extraordinary), dated 23rd April, 1994
In exercise of the powers conferred by Article 243-K of the Constitution read with the proviso to Article 309 of the
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
U.P. State Election Commission (Panchayat Raj and Local Bodies) (Appointment and Condition...
Constitution, the Governor is pleased to make the following rules regulating the appointment and conditions of service to
the post of State Election Commissioner in the State Election Commission for Panchayat Raj and Local Bodies in Uttar
Pradesh.
Chapter I
Preliminary
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Uttar Pradesh State Election Commission (Panchayat Raj and Local Bodies)
(Appointment and Conditions of Service) Rules, 1994.
(2)
They shall come into force at once.
2.
Definitions.
- In these rules, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context,-
(a)
"Appointing Authority" means the Governor;
(b)
"Commissioner" means the Commissioner of the Commission;
(c)
"Commission" means the Uttar Pradesh State Election Commission (Panchayat Raj and Local Bodies);
(d)
"Government" means the Government of Uttar Pradesh;
(e)
"Governor" means the Governor of Uttar Pradesh.
Chapter II
Appointment
3.
Appointment of Commissioner.
- The Commissioner shall be appointed by the Governor :
Provided that a person appointed as Commissioner, if he is already in Government service, shall not assume office of
the Commissioner unless he has resigned or retired from the service in which he was serving.
4.
Term of office.
- The Commissioner shall hold office for a term of five years :
Provided that no Commissioner shall hold office after he has attained the age of sixty-five years.
5.
Qualification and eligibility.
- A persons to be eligible for appointment to the post of the Commissioner must be an officer of the level of Joint
Secretary or above in the Central Government and must have held the post of District Magistrate or Divisional
Commissioner and a Senior Administrative post in the Secretariat.
Chapter III
Pay and Allowances
6.
Pay and allowances.
(1)
A person appointed to the post of Commissioner shall be paid pay and allowances as admissible to him in his parent
department.
(2)
[ A person retired from Government service and appointed as Commissioner shall get the pay of Rs. 80,000 per month
and allowances as may be admissible :
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
U.P. State Election Commission (Panchayat Raj and Local Bodies) (Appointment and Condition...
Provided that if the Commissioner at the time of his appointment is, in receipt of a pension, in respect of any previous
service under the Government of India or under the Government of the State, his salary in respect of the service as the
Commissioner shall be reduced by the amount of that gross pension, that is before commutation :
Provided further that present incumbent of the post shall get the pay of Rs. 80,000 per month and allowances as may be
admissible along with the pension in respect of any previous service.
Note. - For the purposes of this sub-rule the expression "present incumbent" means the person appointed to the post of
Commissioner on June 1, 2007.]
(3)
The Commissioner shall have the facility of rent free accommodation and if such accommodation is not available, he
shall be entitled to house rent allowance at the rates fixed by the Government from time to time in respect of its Group
'A' employees :
Provided that facility of rent free accommodation shall be available till the Commissioner holds his office, as such, and
he shall be bound to vacate the accommodation within a period of one month of his ceasing to hold such office.
Chapter IV
Miscellaneous
7.
Leave.
- The Commissioner shall be entitled, to all such leave as is admissible to Group 'A' employees of the Government.
8.
Pension.
- The Commissioner on attaining the age of superannuation, shall be entitled to retirement benefits as admissible to him
under the rules or regulations applicable to his parent department.
9.
Medical facilities.
- The Commissioner shall be entitled to such medical facilities as are admissible to Group 'A' employees of the
Government.
10.
Regulation of other matters.
- In regard to the matters not specifically covered by these rules, the Commissioner shall be governed by the rules,
regulations and orders for the time being applicable generally to Group 'A' Government servants serving in connection
with the affairs of the State.
[[Substituted by Notification No. 2439/33-3-2009-146-2007, dated 21st October, 2009, published in the U.P. Gazette,
Extraordinary, dated 21st October, 2009. Before substitution sub-rule (2) was stood as under :
'(2) A person retired from Government service and appointed as Commissioner shall have the option to draw his pay
and allowances either on the principle of last pay drawn minus the total amount of pension or the pay of Rs. 8,000 per
month and allowances as may be admissible.']]
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3