
----- PAGE 1 -----
The U.P. District Gazetteer Department Drivers Service Rules, 1993
The U.P. District Gazetteer Department Drivers Service Rules, 1993
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/52595976/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Uttar Pradesh - Act
The U.P. District Gazetteer Department Drivers Service Rules, 1993
UTTAR PRADESH
India
The U.P. District Gazetteer Department Drivers Service Rules, 1993
Rule THE-U-P-DISTRICT-GAZETTEER-DEPARTMENT-DRIVERS-SERVICE-RULES-1993 of 1993
Published on 7 May 1994
Commenced on 7 May 1994
[This is the version of this document from 7 May 1994.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The U.P. District Gazetteer Department Drivers Service Rules, 1993
Published vide U.P. Gazette, dated 7th May, 1994, Notification No. 44687/1-5-92-186-92, dated 16-6-1993
Part I ? General
1.
Short title and commencement.
- These rules may be called Uttar Pradesh District Gazetteer Department Drivers Service Rules, 1993.
(2)
They shall come into force at once.
2.
Status of Service.
- The Uttar Pradesh District Gazetteer Department Drivers Service Comprises Group 'C' posts.
Page 1/6
----- PAGE 2 -----
The U.P. District Gazetteer Department Drivers Service Rules, 1993
3.
Definition.
- In these rules, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context-
(a)
'appointing authority' means the Principal Editor or State Editor of the District Gazetteer Department;
(b)
'citizen of India' means a person who is or is deemed to be a citizen of India under Part II of the Constitution;
(c)
'Constitution' means the Constitution of India;
(d)
'Governor' means the Governor of Uttar Pradesh;
(e)
'Government' means the State Government of Uttar Pradesh;
(f)
'member of the service' means a person substantively appointed under these rules or the rules or orders in force prior to
the commencement of these rules to a post in the cadre of the Service;
(g)
'Service' means the Uttar Pradesh District Gazetteer Department Drivers Service;
(h)
'substantive appointment' means an appointment not being an ad hoc appointment on a post in the cadre of the Service
made after selection in accordance with the rules and, if there are no rules, in accordance with the procedure prescribed
for the time being by executive instructions issued by the Government;
(i)
'Year of recruitment' means a period of twelve months commencing from the first day of July of a calendar year.
Part II ? Cadre
4.
Cadre of Service.
(1)
The strength of service shall be such as may be determined by the Government from time to time.
(2)
The strength of service shall until orders varying the same are passed under sub-rule (1) be as given below :
Name of post
Number of posts
Permanent
Temporary
Total
Driver
...
2
2
Provided that-
(a)
the appointing authority may leave unfilled or the Governor may hold in abeyance any vacant post, without thereby
entitling any person to compensation, or
(b)
the Governor may create such additional, permanent or temporary posts as he may consider proper.
Part III ? Recruitment
5.
Source of recruitment.
- Recruitment to a post in the service shall be made by direct recruitment.
6.
Page 2/6
----- PAGE 3 -----
The U.P. District Gazetteer Department Drivers Service Rules, 1993
Reservation.
- Reservation for the candidates belonging to the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and other categories shall be
made in accordance with the orders of the Government in force at the time of recruitment.
Part IV ? Qualifications
7.
Nationality.
- A candidate for direct recruitment to a post in the service must be-
(a)
a citizen of India; or
(b)
a Tibetan refugee who came over to India before the 1st January, 1962, with the intention of permanently settling in
India; or
(c)
a person of Indian origin who has migrated from Pakistan, Burma, Sri Lanka or any of the East African countries of
Kenya, Uganda and the United Republic of Tanzania (formerly Tanganyika and Zanzibar) with the intention of
permanently settling in India:
Provided that a candidate belonging to category (b) or (c) above must be a person in whose favour a certificate of
eligibility has been issued by the State Government:
Provided further that a candidate belonging to category (b) will also be required to obtain a certificate of eligibility
granted by the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Intelligence Branch, Uttar Pradesh:
Provided also that if a candidate belongs to category (c) above, no certificate of eligibility will be issued for a period of
more than one year and the retention of such a candidate in service beyond the period of one year, shall be subject to
his acquiring Indian citizenship.
Note. - A candidate in whose case a certificate of eligibility is necessary but the same has neither been issued nor
refused, may be admitted to an examination or interview and he may also be provisionally appointed subject to the
necessary certificate being obtained by him or issued in his favour.
8.
A candidate for direct recruitment must have attained the age of twenty one years and must not have attained the age of
more than thirty two years on the first day of July of the calendar year in which vacancies are notified to the Employment
Exchange :
Provided that the upper age limit in the case of candidates belonging to the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and
such other categories as may be notified by the Government from time to time shall be greater by such number of years
as may be specified.
9.
Technical and academic qualification.
- A candidate for direct recruitment to the service must possess following qualifications :
(1)
Must have passed class VIII examination from a recognised institution.
(2)
Must possess a valid driving licence for a period of not less than three years preceding the date of notification of
vacancy to the employment exchange and must have knowledge of motor mechanism.
10.
Preferential Qualification.
- A candidate who has -
(i)
served in the territorial army for a minimum period of two years, or
(ii)
obtained a 'B' certificate of the National Cadet Corps shall, other things being equal be given preference in the matter of
recruitment to the service.
11.
Character.
Page 3/6
----- PAGE 4 -----
The U.P. District Gazetteer Department Drivers Service Rules, 1993
- The character of a candidate for recruitment to the service must be such as to render him suitable in all respects for
employment in Government service. The appointing authority shall satisfy itself on this point.
Note. - Persons dismissed by the Union Government or a State Government or a Local Authority or a Corporation or
Body owned or controlled by the Union Government or a State Government shall be ineligible for recruitment to the
service. Persons convicted of an offence involving moral turpitude shall also be ineligible.
12.
Marital status.
- A male candidate who has more than one wife living or a female candidate who has married a man already having a
wife living shall not be eligible for recruitment to the service:
Provided that the Government may, if satisfied that there exist special grounds for doing so, exempt any person from the
operation of this rule.
13.
Physical fitness.
- No person shall be appointed to the service unless he be in good mental and bodily health and free from any physical
defect likely to interfere with the efficient performance of his duties. Before a candidate is finally approved for
appointment to the service, he shall be required to produce a certificate of fitness in accordance with rules framed under
Fundamental Rule 10 contained in Chapter III of the [Financial Handbook, Volume II, Part III]
[See Financial Hand Book, Volume II (Part 2 to 4), by H.S. Nigam, published by Alia Law Agency, Allahabad.]
.
Part V ? Proceedure for Recruitment
14.
Determination of vacancies.
- The appointing authority shall determine and notify to the Employment Exchange in accordance with the rules and
orders for the time being in force, the number of vacancies to be filled during the course of the year as also the number
of vacancies to be reserved for candidates belonging to the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and other categories
under rule 6.
15.
Procedure for direct recruitment.
(1)
For the purpose of direct recruitment there shall be constituted a Selection Committee comprising-
(i)
appointing authority;
(ii)
an officer nominated by appointing authority;
(iii)
Deputy Transport Commissioner (Technical);
(iv)
An officer belonging to the Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes nominated by appointing authority.
(2)
The applications received from the Employment Exchange shall be scrutinised by the appointing authority who shall
subject to the provisions of rule 6, require the eligible candidate to appear in practical examination and interview.
(3)
The Selection Committee shall, after the interview and the practical examination, prepare a list of candidates in order of
merit as disclosed by the aggregate of marks obtained by them in the Practical Examination and interview. If two or
more candidates obtain equal marks, the Selection Committee shall arrange their names on the basis of their general
suitability for the post. The number of the names in the list shall be larger (but not larger by more than twenty five
percent) than the number of the vacancies. The Selection Committee shall forward the list to appointing authority.
Part VI ? Appointment, Probation, Confirmation and Seniority
16.
Appointment.
(1)
Page 4/6
----- PAGE 5 -----
The U.P. District Gazetteer Department Drivers Service Rules, 1993
The appointing authority shall make appointment by taking the names of the candidates in the order in which they stand
in the list prepared under rule 15.
(2)
If more than one orders of appointment are issued in respect of any one selection, a combined order shall also be
issued, mentioning the names of the persons in order of seniority as determined in the selection.
17.
Probation.
(1)
A person on substantive appointment to a post in service shall be placed on probation for a period of two years.
(2)
The appointing authority may, for reasons to be recorded, extend the period of probation in individual cases specifying
the date up to which the extension is granted;
Provided that, save in exceptional circumstances the period of probation shall not extend beyond one year and in no
circumstance beyond two years.
(3)
If it appears to the appointing authority at any time during or at the end of the period of probation or extended period of
probation that a probationer has not made sufficient use of his opportunities, or has otherwise failed to given
satisfaction, he may be reverted to his substantive post, if any, and if he does not hold any lien on any post his services
may be dispensed with.
(4)
A probationer who is reverted or whose services are dispensed with under sub-rule (3) shall not be entitled to any
compensation.
(5)
The appointing authority may allow continuous service rendered in a post included in the cadre or any other equivalent
or higher post to be taken into account for the purpose of computing the period of probation.
18.
Confirmation.
- A probationer shall be confirmed in his appointment at the end of the period of probation or extended period of
probation, if-
(i)
his work and conduct are found to be satisfactory;
(ii)
his integrity is certified; and
(iii)
the appointing authority is satisfied that he is otherwise fit for confirmation.
19.
Seniority.
- The seniority of persons substantively appointed to the posts of driver shall be determined in accordance with the Uttar
Pradesh Government Servants Seniority Rules, 1991, as amended from time to time.
Part VII ? Pay, Etc.
20.
Scale of pay.
(1)
The scalp of pay admissible to a person appointed to a post in the Service shall be such as may be determined by the
Government from time to time.
(2)
The scale of pay at the time of commencement of these rules is Rs. 950-20- 1150-E.B.-25-1500.
21.
Pay during probation.
- Notwithstanding any provision in the Fundamental Rules to the contrary a person on probation, if he is not already in
permanent Government Service, shall be allowed his first increment in the time scale when he has completed one year
Page 5/6
----- PAGE 6 -----
The U.P. District Gazetteer Department Drivers Service Rules, 1993
of satisfactory service, and second increment after two years service, when he has completed the probationary period
and is also confirmed :
Provided that if the period of probation is extended on account of failure to give satisfaction, such extension shall not
count for increment, unless the appointing authority directs otherwise.
(2)
The pay during probation of a person who was already holding a post under the Government, shall be regulated by the
relevant Fundamental Rules:
Provided that if the period of probation is extended on account of failure to give satisfaction, such extension shall not.
count for increment unless the appointing authority directs otherwise.
(3)
The pay during probation of a person already in permanent Government Service shall be regulated by the relevant rules
applicable to Government servant generally serving in connection with the affairs of the State.
22.
Criterion for crossing efficiency bar.
- No driver shall be allowed to cross the efficiency bar unless his work and conduct are reported to be satisfactory and
his integrity is certified.
Part VIII ? Other Provisions
23.
Canvassing.
- No recommendations, either written or oral, other than those required under the rules applicable to the service will be
taken into consideration. Any attempt on the part of a candidate to enlist support directly or indirectly for his candidature
by other means shall disqualify him for appointment
24.
Regulation of other matters.
- In regard to matters not specifically covered by these rules, or by special orders, persons appointed to the Service shall
be governed by the rules, regulations and orders applicable generally to Government servants serving in connection
with the affairs of the State.
25.
Relaxation in the conditions of service.
- Where the State Government is satisfied that the operation of any rule regulating the conditions of service of persons
appointed to the Service causes undue hardship in any particular case, it may, notwithstanding anything contained in the
rules applicable to the case, by order, dispense with or relax the requirements of that rule to such extent and subject to
such conditions as it may consider necessary for dealing with the case in just and equitable manner.
26.
Savings.
- Nothing in these rules shall affect reservations and other concessions required to be provided for the candidates
belonging to the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and other special categories of persons in accordance with the
orders of the Government issued from time to time in this regard.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 6/6