
----- PAGE 1 -----
The U.P. Dental Hygienist and Dental Mechanic Service Rules, 1993
The U.P. Dental Hygienist and Dental Mechanic Service Rules, 1993
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/126933574/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Uttar Pradesh - Act
The U.P. Dental Hygienist and Dental Mechanic Service Rules, 1993
UTTAR PRADESH
India
The U.P. Dental Hygienist and Dental Mechanic Service Rules, 1993
Rule THE-U-P-DENTAL-HYGIENIST-AND-DENTAL-MECHANIC-SERVICE-RULES-1993 of 1993
Published on 4 June 1994
Commenced on 4 June 1994
[This is the version of this document from 4 June 1994.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The U.P. Dental Hygienist and Dental Mechanic Service Rules, 1993
Published vide Notification No. 2836/Section-8-Five-Eight 40-87, dated 13-7-1993 and published by U.P. Gazette dated
4th June, 1994
Part I ? General
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Uttar Pradesh Dental Hygienist and Dental Service Mechanic Service Rules, 1993.
(2)
They shall come into force at once.
2.
Page 1/7
----- PAGE 2 -----
The U.P. Dental Hygienist and Dental Mechanic Service Rules, 1993
Status of the service.
- The Uttar Pradesh Dental Hygienist and Dental Mechanic Service is a subordinate service comprising Group 'C' posts.
3.
Definitions.
- In these Rules, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context-
(a)
"appointing authority" means the Additional Director (Dental) in the Directorate of Medical Health and Family Welfare,
Uttar Pradesh;
(b)
"citizen of India" means a person who is or is deemed to be citizen of India under Part II of the Constitution;
(c)
"Constitution" means the Constitution of India;
(d)
"Director General" means Director General Medical, Health and Family Welfare, Uttar Pradesh;
(e)
"Member of service" means a person appointed in a substantive capacity under the provisions of these rules or the rules
or orders in force prior to the commencement of these rules to a post in the cadre of the service;
(f)
"Governor" means the Governor of Uttar Pradesh;
(g)
"Government" means the State Government of Uttar Pradesh;
(h)
"service" means the Uttar Pradesh Dental Hygienist and Dential Mechanic Service;
(i)
"substantive appointment" means an appointment, not being an ad hoc appointment, on a post in the cadre of the
service made after selection in accordance wish the rules and, if there are no rules in accordance with the procedure
prescribed for the time being by executive instructions issued by the Government;
(j)
"Year of recruitment" means a period of twelve months commencing from first day of July of a calender year.
4.
Cadre of service.
(1)
The strength of the service and of each category of posts therein shall be such as may be determined by the
Government from time to time.
(2)
The strength of the service and of each category of posts therein shall, until orders varying the same are passed under
sub-rule (1) be as given in Appendix.
Provided that-
(a)
the appointing authority may leave unfilled or the Government may held in abeyance any vacant post without thereby
entitling any person to compensation;
(b)
the Government may create such additional permanent or temporary posts as he may consider proper.
Part III ? Recruitment
5.
Source of recruitment.
- Recruitment to the posts in the service shall be made by direct recruitment
6.
Reservation.
- Reservation for the candidates belonging to the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and other categories shall be in
accordance with the orders of Government in force at the time of recruitment,
Page 2/7
----- PAGE 3 -----
The U.P. Dental Hygienist and Dental Mechanic Service Rules, 1993
Part IV ? Qualifications
7.
Nationality.
- A candidate for recruitment to a post in the service must be-
(a)
a citizen of India; or
(b)
a Tibetan refugee who came over to India before the 1st January, 1962 with the intention of permanently settling in
India; or
(c)
a person in India origin who has migrated from Pakistan, Burma, Sri Lanka or any of the East African Countries of
Kenya, Uganda, and the United Republic of Tanzania (Formerly Tanganika and Zanzibar with the intention of
permanently settling in India :
Provided that a candidate belonging to categories (b) and (c) above must be a person in whose favour a certificate to
eligibility has been issued by the State Government:
Provided further that a candidate belonging to category (b) will also be required to obtain a certificate of eligibility
granted by the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Intelligence Branch, Uttar Pradesh :
Provided also that if a candidate belongs to category (c) above, no certificate of eligibility will be issued for a period of
more than one year and the retention of such a candidate in service beyond a period of one year, shall be subject to his
acquiring Indian Citizenship.
Note. - A candidate in whose case a certificate of eligibility is necessary but the same has neither been issued nor
refused, may be admitted to an examination or interview and he may also be provisionally appointed subject to the
necessary certificate being obtained by him or issued in his favour.
8.
Academic Qualification.
- A candidate for direct recruitment to the posts in the service must have obtained certificate or diploma in Dental
Hygiene or Dental Mechanic, as the case may be, from a recognised institution and must also be registered with the
State Dental Council, Uttar Pradesh.
9.
Preferential Qualification.
- A candidate who has-
(i)
served in the Territorial Army for a minimum period of two years, or
(ii)
obtained 'b' certificate of National Cadet Corps, shall other things being equal be given preference in the matter of direct
recruitment.
10.
Age.
- A candidate for direct recruitment must have attained the age of eighteen years and must not have attained the age of
more than 32 (thirty two) years on the first day of July of the calendar year in which vacancies are advertised :
Provided that the upper age limit in the case of candidate belonging to the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and
such other categories, as may be notified by the Government from time to time shall be greater by such number of year
as may be specified.
11.
Character.
- The character of a candidate for direct recruitment to a post in the service must be such as to render him suitable in all
respect for employment in Government service. The appointing authority shall satisfy itself on this point.
Note. - Persons dismissed by the Union Government or by a State Government, or by a local Authority or a Corporation
or Body owned or controlled by the Union Government or a State Government shall be ineligible for appointment to any
post in the Service. Person convicted of an offence involving moral turpitude shall also be ineligible.
12.
Page 3/7
----- PAGE 4 -----
The U.P. Dental Hygienist and Dental Mechanic Service Rules, 1993
Marital status.
- A male candidate who has more than one wife living or a female candidate who has married a man already having a
wife living shall not be eligible for appointment to a post in the service.
Provided that the Governor may, if satisfied that there exist special grounds for doing so, exempt any person from the
operation of this rule.
13.
Physical fitness.
- No candidate shall be appointed to a post in the Service unless he be in good mental and bodily health and free from
any physical defect likely to interfere with the efficient performance of his duties. Before a candidate is finally approved
for appointment he shall be required to produce a medical certificate of fitness in accordance with the rules framed
under Fundamental Rule 10 contained in Chapter III of the Financial Hand-Book, Volume II, Part III.
Part V ? Procedure for Recruitment
14.
Determination of vacancies.
- The appointing authority shall determine the number of vacancies to be filled during the course of the year as also the
number of vacancies to the reserved for candidates belonging to Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and other
categories under rule 6.
The vacancies shall be notified to the Employment Exchange. The appointing authority may also invite application
directly from the persons who have their name registered in the Employment Exchange. For this purpose the appointing
authority shall issue an advertisements in a local daily newspaper besides pasting notice for the same on the notice
board. All such applications shall be placed before the Selection Committee.
15.
Procedure for direct recruitment.
(1)
For the purpose of direct recruitment there shall be constituted a Selection Committee comprising -
(i)
Appointing Authority
...Chairman.
(ii)
An officer, not below the rank of Joint Director, belonging to
Scheduled Cates or Scheduled Tribes, nominated by the Director
General, if the appointing authority docs not belong to Scheduled
Cates or Scheduled Tribes. It the appointing authority belongs to
Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribe, an officer other than
belonging to Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes nominated by the
Director General.
...Member
(iii)
An officer, not below the rank of Joint Director belonging to
minority community, nominated by the Director General.
...Member
(iv)
An officer not blow the rank of Joint Director belonging to
Backward Class, nominated by the Director General.
...Member
(2)
The Selection Committee, shall having regard to the need for securing due representation of the candidates belonging to
the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribe and other categories in accordance with rules 6, call for interview such number
of candidates who fulfil the requisite qualifications as it considers proper.
(3)
The Selection Committee shall prepare a list of candidates in order of their proficiency as disclosed by the marks
Page 4/7
----- PAGE 5 -----
The U.P. Dental Hygienist and Dental Mechanic Service Rules, 1993
obtained by each candidates in the interview. If two or more candidates obtained equal marks, the selection Committee
shall arrange their names in order of merit on the basis of their general suitability for the Service. The number of names
in the list shall be larger (but not larger by more than 25 per cent) than the number of vacancies. The Selection
Committee shall forward the list to the appending authority.
Part VI ? Appointment, Probation, Confirmation and Seniority
16.
Appointment.
(1)
The appointing authority shall make appointments by taking the names of candidates in the order in which they stand in
the list prepared under rule 15.
(2)
If more than one order of appointments are issued in respect of any one selection, a combined order shall also be
issued, mentioning the names of the persons in order of seniority as determined in the selection.
17.
Probation.
(1)
A person substantively appointed to a post in the service shall be placed on probation for a period of two years.
(2)
The appointing authority may, for reasons to be recorded, extend the period of probation in individual cases specifying
the date up to which the extension is granted:
Provided that, save in exceptional circumstances the period of probation shall not be extend beyond one year and, in no
circumstance beyond two years.
(3)
If it appears to the appointing authority at one time during or at the end of the period of probation or extended period of
probation that a probationer has not made sufficient use of his opportunities or his work and conduct is unsatisfactory,
he may be reverted to his substantive post, if any, and if he does not hold a lien on any post, his services may be
dispensed with.
(4)
A probationer who is reverted or whose services are dispensed with under sub-rule (3) shall not be entitled to any
compensation.
(5)
The appointing authority may allow continuous service rendered in an officiating or temporary capacity in a post included
in the cadre or any other equivalent or higher post to be taken into account for the purpose of computing the period of
probation.
18.
Confirmation.
- A probationer shall be confirmed in his appointment at the end of the period of probation or the extended period of
probation if-
(a)
his work and conduct is reported to be satisfactory,
(b)
his integrity is certified; and
(c)
the appointing authority is satisfied that he is otherwise fit for confirmation.
19.
Seniority.
- The seniority of persons substantively appointed in any category of posts shall be determined in accordance with the
Uttar Pradesh Government Servants Seniority Rules,1991, as amended from time to time.
Part VII ? Pay Etc.
20.
Scales of pay.
Page 5/7
----- PAGE 6 -----
The U.P. Dental Hygienist and Dental Mechanic Service Rules, 1993
- (i) The scale of pay admissible to persons appointed in the service, shall be such as may be determined by the
Government from time to time.
(ii)
The scale of pay at the time of the commencement of these rules are given as follows ;
Name
of the posts
Scale of pay*
(i) Dental
hygienist.
Rs. 1200-30-1560-EB-40-2040
(ii) Dental
Mechanic
Rs. 1200-30-1560-EB-40-2040
* For latest Pay Scale, please see current G.O.
21.
Pay during probation.
- (i) Notwithstanding any provision in the Fundamental Rules to the contrary, a person on probation, if he is not already
in permanent Government service shall be allowed his first increment in the time, scale when he was completed one
year of satisfactory service and second increment after two years service when he has completed the probationary
period and is also confirmed:
Provided that if the period of probation is extended on account of failure to give satisfaction such extension shall not
count for increment unless the appointing authority directs otherwise.
(ii)
The pay during probation of a person already in permanent Government service shall be regulated by the relevant rules
applicable to Government servants generally serving in connection with the affairs of the State.
22.
Criteria for crossing efficiency bar.
- No person appointed to the service shall be allowed to cross the efficiency bar unless he has worked diligently and to
the best of his ability, his work and conduct is found to be satisfactory and unless his integrity is certified.
Part VIII ? Other Provisions
23.
Canvassing.
- No recommendations either written or oral, other than these required under the rules applicable to the post or service
will be taken into consideration. Any attempt on the part of a candidate to enlist support directly or indirectly for his
candidature will disqualify him for appointment.
24.
Regulations of other matters.
- In regard to the matters not specifically covered by these rules or by special orders, persons appointed to the service
shall be governed by the rules, regulations and orders applicable generally to Government servants serving in
connection with the affairs of the State.
25.
Relaxation from the conditions of service.
- Where the State Government is satisfied that the operation of any rule regulating the condition of service of persons
appointed to the Service causes undue hardship in any particular case, it may notwithstanding any thing contained in the
rules applicable to the case by order, dispense with or relax the requirements of that rule to such extent and subject to
such condition as it may consider necessary for dealing with the case if a just and equitable manner.
26.
Saving.
- Nothing in these rules shall effect reservations or any other concessional required to be provided for the candidates
belonging to the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and other special categories of persons in accordance with the
order of the Government assured from time to time in this regard.
Page 6/7
----- PAGE 7 -----
The U.P. Dental Hygienist and Dental Mechanic Service Rules, 1993
Appendix
[See Rule 4]
Name of Posts
Number of posts
Permanent
Temporary
Total
1. Dental Hygienist
2. Dental
Mechanic
157
1
143
?
300
1
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 7/7