
----- PAGE 1 -----
The U.P. State Universities (Reservation in Admission for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Trib...
The U.P. State Universities (Reservation in Admission for Scheduled
Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes) Order, 1994
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/33740406/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Uttar Pradesh - Act
The U.P. State Universities (Reservation in Admission for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward
Classes) Order, 1994
UTTAR PRADESH
India
The U.P. State Universities (Reservation in Admission for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward
Classes) Order, 1994
Rule
THE-U-P-STATE-UNIVERSITIES-RESERVATION-IN-ADMISSION-FOR-SCHEDULED-CASTES-SCHEDULED-TRIBE
S-AND-OTHER-BACKWARD-CLASSES-ORDER-1994 of 1994
Published on 20 July 1994
Commenced on 20 July 1994
[This is the version of this document from 20 July 1994.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The U.P. State Universities (Reservation in Admission for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward
Classes) Order, 1994
Published Vide Notification No. 2638/15-10-94-15(66)-89, dated 20.7.1994, published in the U.P. Gazette,
Extraordinary, Part 4, Section (Kha), dated 20.7.1994.
In exercise of the powers under clause (a) of sub-section (5) of Section 28 of the Uttar Pradesh State Universities Act,
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The U.P. State Universities (Reservation in Admission for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Trib...
1973 (President Act
No.10 of 1973
as amended and re-enacted by U.P. Act No. 29 of 1974), the Governor is pleased to make the following order:
1.
(1)
This order may be called the Uttar Pradesh State Universities (Reservation in Admission for Scheduled Castes,
Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes) Order, 1994.
(2)
It shall come into force at once.
2.
[(1)]
[Renumbered by Notification No. 3509/XV-10-94-15(66)-89, dated 30.8.1994.]
Subject to the provisions of sub-section (5) of Section 28 of the Uttar Pradesh State Universities Act, 1973, with effect
from the academic session of 1994-95, following percentages of seats in any course of study in a University, Institute,
Constituent College, Affiliated college or Associated college shall be reserved for admission for the candidates
belonging to the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes of citizens, namely :
Scheduled Castes
Twenty-one percent
Scheduled Tribes
Two percent
Other Backward Classes of citizens
Twenty-seven percent:
Provided that where any University has provided for Reservation in admissions in favour of any other category of
candidates than those referred to above, the candidate selected for admission on the basis of such reservation shall be
placed in the appropriate category to which he belongs, For example, if a candidate, selected for admission in any
course of study on the basis of reservation in favour of sports person, belongs to the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled
Tribes or Other Backward Classes, he will be placed in the respective category to which he belongs by making
necessary adjustments and similarly, if he belongs to general category, he will be placed in that category after making
necessary adjustment :
Provided further that the seats, if any, reserved under any other law for the time being in force, or under any order of the
Government of India, for the students belonging to any other State, shall not be included in the total number of seats for
the purpose of computing the percentages under this paragraph.
Explanation. - For the purposes of this Order the term general category, means the category other than those referred to
in paragraph 2.
(2)
[ The reservation in admission as provided in sub-paragraph (1) shall also apply in any course of study in an University,
Institute or such College in respect of y academic session, prior to academic session 1994-95, for which admissions are
to made.]
[Inserted by Notification No. 3509/XV-10-94(66)-89, dated 30.8.1994 (w.e.f. 30.8.1994).]
3.
If eligible candidates belonging to the Scheduled Tribes are not available to fill the seat reserved for them under
paragraph 2, such seat shall be filled by candidates belonging to the Scheduled Castes.
4.
Subject to paragraph 3, where due to non-availability of eligible candidates any of the seats reserved under paragraph 2
remains unfilled, it shall be filled by a candidate of general category.
Explanation. - For the purposes of paragraphs 3 and 4 it is clarified that a candidate belonging to the Scheduled
Castes,Scheduled Tribes or Other Backward Classes of citizens shall not be ineligible if he fails to secure the minimum
qualifying marks, if any, in any admission test or under any norm relating to admissions.
5.
If a candidate belonging to any of the categories mentioned in paragraph 2 gets selected for admission on the basis of
merit with general category candidates, he shall not be adjusted against the seats reserved for such category under
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The U.P. State Universities (Reservation in Admission for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Trib...
paragraph 2.
6.
The teachers, belonging to the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes or Other Backward Classes of citizens shall, so far
as possible, be given representation in the Admission Committees to ensure fair admissions.
7.
The Chairperson of the Admission Committee and the Vice-Chancellor in the case of a University and such chairperson
and the Head of Institution in any other case, shall be responsible for due observance of this order.
8.
Whoever wilfully acts in a manner intended to contravene or defeat the purposes of this order shall, on conviction, be
punishable with imprisonment which may extend to three months or with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees
or with both.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3