
----- PAGE 1 -----
The U.P. Competitive Examination (Medium of Written Examination) Rules, 1994
The U.P. Competitive Examination (Medium of Written Examination)
Rules, 1994
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/124759428/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Uttar Pradesh - Act
The U.P. Competitive Examination (Medium of Written Examination) Rules, 1994
UTTAR PRADESH
India
The U.P. Competitive Examination (Medium of Written Examination) Rules, 1994
Rule THE-U-P-COMPETITIVE-EXAMINATION-MEDIUM-OF-WRITTEN-EXAMINATION-RULES-1994 of 1994
Published on 18 August 1994
Commenced on 18 August 1994
[This is the version of this document from 18 August 1994.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The U.P. Competitive Examination (Medium of Written Examination) Rules, 1994
Published vide Notification No. 886-Ka-47-Ka-4-94-15-39-94, dated 18th August, 1994
1.
Short title, commencement and application.
(1)
These rules may be called the Uttar Pradesh Competitive Examination (Medium of Written Examination) Rules, 1994.
(2)
They shall come into force at once.
(3)
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The U.P. Competitive Examination (Medium of Written Examination) Rules, 1994
They shall apply to all examinations.
2.
Overriding effect.
- The provisions of these rules shall have effect notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any other rules
made by the Governor under the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution, or orders, for the time being in force.
3.
Definitions.
- In these rules unless there is anything repugnant in the subject on context,-
(a)
'Candidate' means a person who appears in an examination;
(b)
'Examination' means a written examination or a competitive examination for directing recruitment to any post or service
under the rule making power of the Governor under the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution;
(c)
'Constitution' means the Constitution of India;
(d)
'Governor' means the Governor of Uttar Pradesh;
(e)
'Commission' means the Uttar Pradesh Public Service Commission or the Uttar Pradesh Subordinate Service Selection
Commission, as the case may be.
4.
Medium of answering question papers.
- A candidate may answer question papers in English in Roman script or Hindi in Devnagri script or Urdu in Persian
script except that the language papers must be answered in the same language :
Provided that question paper as a whole, and not for each question separately, must be answered in any of the above
script :
Provided further that the question paper shall be in English in Roman script and Hindi in Devnagri script.
5.
Examination in General Hindi.
- A candidate shall be required to obtain such minimum marks in the compulsory paper of General Hindi as may be
determined by the Government or the Commission, as the case may be.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2