
----- PAGE 1 -----
U.P. Kshettra Panchayats and Zila Panchayats (Oath of Office of Adhyaksha or Pramukh, etc....
U.P. Kshettra Panchayats and Zila Panchayats (Oath of Office of
Adhyaksha or Pramukh, etc.) Rules, 1994
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/68589689/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Uttar Pradesh - Act
U.P. Kshettra Panchayats and Zila Panchayats (Oath of Office of Adhyaksha or Pramukh, etc.) Rules, 1994
UTTAR PRADESH
India
U.P. Kshettra Panchayats and Zila Panchayats (Oath of Office of Adhyaksha or Pramukh, etc.) Rules, 1994
Rule
U-P-KSHETTRA-PANCHAYATS-AND-ZILA-PANCHAYATS-OATH-OF-OFFICE-OF-ADHYAKSHA-OR-PRAMUKH-ETC
-RULES-1994 of 1994
Published on 14 September 1994
Commenced on 14 September 1994
[This is the version of this document from 14 September 1994.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
U.P. Kshettra Panchayats and Zila Panchayats (Oath of Office of Adhyaksha or Pramukh, etc.) Rules, 1994
Published vide Notification U. P. Gazette (Extraordinary), Part 4, Section (Kha), dated 14th September, 1994, vide
Notification No. 4289/33-1-94-283-94, dated 14th September, 1994
In exercise of the powers under Section 237 of the Uttar Pradesh Kshettra Panchayats and Zila Panchayats Adhiniyam,
1961 (U. P. Act No. 33 of 1961) and in supersession of Rule for making Oath or Affirmation of Allegiance to the
Constitution of India, 1950, the Governor is pleased to make the following rules :
1.
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
U.P. Kshettra Panchayats and Zila Panchayats (Oath of Office of Adhyaksha or Pramukh, etc....
Short title and extent.
(1)
These rules may be called the Uttar Pradesh Kshettra Panchayats and Zila Panchayats (Oath of Office of Adhyaksha or
Pramukh, etc.) Rules, 1994.
(2)
They shall come into force at once.
2.
Definitions.
(1)
"Act" means the Uttar Pradesh Kshettra Panchayats and Zila Panchayats Adhiniyam, 1961.
(2)
"Members" means in case of Zila Panchayats Members elected under clause (b) of sub-section (1) of Section 18 and in
case of Kshettra Panchayat Members elected under clause (b) of sub-section (1) of Section 6 of the Act.
3.
Manner of taking oath or affirmation.
(1)
An Adhyaksha of a Zila Panchayat before taking his seat for the first time as Adhyaksha shall make or subscribe oath or
affirmation before the District Magistrate in the form set out for the purpose in the Appendix.
(2)
A Pramukh of a Kshettra Panchayat before taking his seat for the first time as Pramukh shall make or subscribe oath or
affirmation before the Sub-Divisional Officer or such other officer appointed by the District Magistrate in this behalf in the
form set out for the purpose in the Appendix.
(3)
The members of Zila Panchayat and Kshettra Panchayat before taking their seats for the first time as such members
shall make or subscribe oath or affirmation in the case of member of Zila Panchayat before the Adhyaksha and in his
absence before the Mukhya Adhikari and in the case of members of the Kshettra Panchayat before the Pramukh and in
his absence before the Khand Vikas Adhikari in the form set out in the Appendix.
Appendix
Form of Oath or Affirmation
I.................................. having become Adhykasha/Pramukh/Member of Zila Panchayat/Kshettra Panchayat of......... do
swear in the name of God solemnly affirm that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of India as by law
established, that I will uphold the sovereignty and integrity of India and that I will faithfully and honestly discharge the
duties of my office as such Adhyaksha/Pramukh/Member.
Signature
Name of Adhyaksha/Pramukh/Member
Place :
Date:
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2