
----- PAGE 1 -----
The U.P. Government Servants Resignation Rules, 2000
The U.P. Government Servants Resignation Rules, 2000
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/162588834/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Uttar Pradesh - Act
The U.P. Government Servants Resignation Rules, 2000
UTTAR PRADESH
India
The U.P. Government Servants Resignation Rules, 2000
Rule THE-U-P-GOVERNMENT-SERVANTS-RESIGNATION-RULES-2000 of 2000
Published on 26 June 2000
Commenced on 26 June 2000
[This is the version of this document from 26 June 2000.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The U.P. Government Servants Resignation Rules, 2000
Published vide Notification No. 13/3/99-Ka-1-2000, dated 26th June, 2000, published in U.P. Gazette (Extraordinary),
Part 4, Section (Ka), dated 26th June 2000
In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution, the Governor is pleased to make the
following rules:
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called "The Uttar Pradesh Government Servants Resignation Rules, 2000".
(2)
They shall come into force at once.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The U.P. Government Servants Resignation Rules, 2000
2.
Overriding effect.
- These rules shall have effect notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any other rules made by the
Governor under the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution or executive order issued in this behalf.
3.
Definitions.
- In these rules, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context, the expression-
(a)
"Appointing Authority" in relation to any service means the authority empowered to make appointments to such service
under the relevant service rules;
(b)
"Constitution" means the Constitution of India;
(c)
"Government" means the State Government of Uttar Pradesh;
(d)
"Government Servant" means a person substantively appointed to a post under the relevant service rules made under
Article 309 of the Constitution;
(e)
"Governor" means the Governor of Uttar Pradesh;
(f)
"Substantive appointment" means an appointment, not being an ad hoc appointment, on a post in the cadre of the
service, made after selection in accordance with the service rules relating to that service.
4.
Notice of Resignation.
(1)
A Government servant may resign from his service by giving three months notice in writing.
(2)
The notice of resignation shall be-
(i)
voluntary and unconditional;
(ii)
addressed to the appointing authority under intimation to the authority under whom the said Government servant is
working at the time of tendering resignation :
Provided that it shall be open to the appointing authority to allow a Government servant to resign without any notice or
by a shorter notice.
5.
Acceptance or Refusal of Resignation.
(1)
The resignation of the Government servant shall not be effective unless it is accepted by the appointing authority and
formal order is issued thereof. The appointing authority may, in his discretion, refuse to accept the resignation, if-
(i)
the Government servant owes to the Government any sum of money and/or any other liability unless the amount due
has been paid or the liability discharged; or
(ii)
the Government servant is under suspension; or
(iii)
any inquiry is contemplated or pending against him; or
(iv)
investigation, inquiry or trial relating to criminal charge is pending and such charge is connected with his official position
as the Government servant.
(2)
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The U.P. Government Servants Resignation Rules, 2000
The appointing authority shall, as far as possible, take decision on the request of resignation before the expiry of the
period of notice.
6.
Termination of Service.
- The services of the said Government servant shall stand terminated with effect from the date of issue of order of the
acceptance of his resignation or from such future date as mentioned therein.
7.
Withdrawal of Resignation.
- The Government servant may withdraw his resignation by making a request in writing to the appointing authority only
before the date of termination of his services as provided in rule 6 of these rules.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3