
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Uttar Pradesh Medicare Service Persons and Medicare Service Institutions (Prevention o...
The Uttar Pradesh Medicare Service Persons and Medicare Service
Institutions (Prevention of Violence And Damage to Property) Act,
2013
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/5441303/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
6
]
State of Uttar Pradesh - Act
The Uttar Pradesh Medicare Service Persons and Medicare Service Institutions (Prevention of Violence And Damage to
Property) Act, 2013
UTTAR PRADESH
India
The Uttar Pradesh Medicare Service Persons and Medicare Service Institutions (Prevention of Violence And Damage to
Property) Act, 2013
Act 16 of 2013
Published in Uttar Pradesh Legislature on 26 September 2013
Commenced on 26 September 2013
[This is the version of this document from 26 September 2013.]
1.
Short title, extent and commencement
(1)
This Act may be called the Uttar Pradesh Medicare Service Persons and Medicare Service institutions (Prevention of
Violence and Damage to Property) Act, 2013.
(2)
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Uttar Pradesh Medicare Service Persons and Medicare Service Institutions (Prevention o...
It shall be deemed to have come into force on May 20, 2013.
2.
Definitions
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
Medicare Service means the act of providing medical treatment and care including antenatal and postnatal care in
connection with child birth or anything connected therewith, or nursing care in any form to persons suffering from
sickness, injury or infirmities whether of body or mind ;
(b)
Medicare Service Institutions means a medical college, a hospital, a Community Health Centre, Primary Health Centre,
Health Centre by whatever name called or such other institutions providing Medicare Service to the people, which is
established and managed by, or under the control of, the State Government or the Central Government or any local
authority or any private Hospital/Nursing Home, Clinic and Maternity Centre registered with Uttar Pradesh Medical and
Health Department;
(c)
Medicare Service person in relation to a Medicare Service Institution means a registered Medical Practitioner including
provisional registration holder, a registered Nurse, a Medical Student, a Nursing Student and a Para-medical worker and
includes any person employed and working in such institution;
(d)
Violence means such activities as are causing any harm, injury or endangering the life or intimidation, obstruction or
hindrance to any Medicare Service person in discharge of duty in or outside a Medicare Service Institution;
(e)
Property means any property, movable or immovable or medical equipment or medical machinery owned by or in
possession of, or under the control of any Medicare Service person or Medicare Service Institution;
(f)
Emergency Medical Transport Service means all mobile medical units or medical ambulances equipped with medical
equipment, used for providing Medicare Services.
3.
Violence against Medicare Service person and damage to property
Whoever,-
(a)
commits an act of violence against a Medicare Service person; or
(b)
causes any damage to the property of any Medicare Service Institution;
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years or with fine which may extend to fifty
thousand rupees or with both
4.
Cognizability of offence
An offence punishable under section 3 shall be cognizable and non-bail able.
5.
Recovery of loss for damage to the property
(1)
In addition to the punishment provided under section 3, the court shall, when passing judgment, order that the accused
person shall be liable to a penalty of twice the amount of purchase price of medical equipment damaged and loss
caused to the property of the Medicare Service Institution.
(2)
Where the order of compensation made under sub-section
(1)
is not paid, the same shall be recovered under the provisions of the U.P. Land Revenue Act, 1950 from the accused
person as if it were an arrear of land revenue.
6.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Uttar Pradesh Medicare Service Persons and Medicare Service Institutions (Prevention o...
Act not in derogation of any other law
The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of the provisions of any other law for the time
being in force.
7.
Repeal and saving
(1)
The Uttar Pradesh Medicare Service Persons and Medicare Service Institutions (Prevention of Violence and Damage to
Property) Ordinance, 2013 is hereby repealed.
(2)
Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken under the Ordinance referred to in sub-section (1) shall
be deemed to have been done or taken under this Act as if the provisions of this Act were in force at all material times.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3