
----- PAGE 1 -----
U.P. State Energy Conservation Fund Rules, 2016
U.P. State Energy Conservation Fund Rules, 2016
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/192672333/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Uttar Pradesh - Act
U.P. State Energy Conservation Fund Rules, 2016
UTTAR PRADESH
India
U.P. State Energy Conservation Fund Rules, 2016
Rule U-P-STATE-ENERGY-CONSERVATION-FUND-RULES-2016 of 2016
Published on 27 October 2016
Commenced on 27 October 2016
[This is the version of this document from 27 October 2016.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
U.P. State Energy Conservation Fund Rules, 2016
Published vide Notification No. 1562(1)/45-5(Add. Energy Sources Department)/2016, dated October 27, 2016,
published in the U.P. Gazette, Extraordinary, Part 4, Section (Ka), dated 27th October, 2016, pp. 4-6
No. 1562(1)/45-5(Add. Energy Sources Department)/2016, dated October 27, 2016, published in the U.P. Gazette,
Extraordinary, Part 4, Section (Ka), dated 27th October, 2016, pp. 4-6. - In exercise of the powers under Section 57 read
with Section 16 of the Energy Conservation Act, 2001 (Act No. 52 of 2001) and Section 21 of the General Clauses Act,
1897 (Act No. 10 of 1897), the Governor, in supersession of Notification No. 442/XXIV-P-3-2012, dated March 30, 2012
regarding the Uttar Pradesh State Energy Conservation Fund Rules, 2011, is pleased to make the following rules for the
constitution of a fund to be called the Uttar Pradesh State Energy Conservation Fund for the purposes of the promotion
of efficient use of energy and its conservation within the State of Uttar Pradesh.
1.
Page 1/4
----- PAGE 2 -----
U.P. State Energy Conservation Fund Rules, 2016
Short title and commencement.
- (l) These rules may be called the Uttar Pradesh State Energy Conservation Fund Rules, 2016.
(2)
They shall come into force with effect from date of their publication in the Gazette.
2.
Definitions.
(1)
In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Act" means the Energy Conservation Act, 2001 (Act No. 52 of 2001);
(b)
"Committee" means the State Level Steering Committee constituted under Rule 6;
(c)
"Fund" means the Uttar Pradesh State Energy Conservation Fund constituted under Rule 3;
(d)
"Government" means the State Government of Uttar Pradesh;
(e)
"Section" means a section of the Act;
(f)
"State Designated Agency" means the Uttar Pradesh New and Renewable Energy Development Agency, Lucknow
nominated under clause (d) of Section 15.
(2)
Words and expression used but not defined in these rules shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in the
Act.
3.
Constitution of Fund.
- There shall be constituted a Fund to be known as the Uttar Pradesh State Conservation Fund to which shall be
credited the same mentioned under Section 16.
4.
Administration of the Fund.
- The Fund shall be administrated by the State Designated Agency notified under sub-section (4) of Section 16.
5.
The Fund shall be utilised for.
(a)
the purpose of promotion and efficient use of energy and its conservation in the State of Uttar Pradesh;
(b)
incurring expenditure through State Designated Agency for various awareness programmes, disseminating information
to individual consumers, industries, commercial organizations, students, farmers, etc. regarding energy conservation
and efficient use of energy;
(c)
meeting the expenditure incurred by the State Designated Agency for training of personnel and specialists for efficient
use of energy and its conservation;
(d)
promotion of Research and Development in the field of Energy Conservation;
(e)
developing the testing and certification procedure, creation of testing facilities for certification or verification and testing
of energy consumption of equipments and appliances;
(f)
developing and execute Demonstration Projects related to energy conservation and energy efficiency for
encouragement and to contribute in the projects of Bureau of Energy Efficiency and Central Government;
(g)
Page 2/4
----- PAGE 3 -----
U.P. State Energy Conservation Fund Rules, 2016
promoting the use of energy efficient processes for the equipment's devices and systems;
(h)
meeting the matching grant to the centrally sponsored schemes and schemes and Bureau of Energy Efficiency
implemented in the State of Uttar Pradesh;
(i)
meeting the expenses incurred by the State Designated Agency for implementing the provisions of the Act;
(j)
meeting the expenses incurred by the State Designated Agency on staff for dedicated Energy Conservation cell.
6.
Regulation and Control of the Fund.
- For the purposes of regulating and controlling the Fund there shall be a State Level Steering Committee consisting of
the following members -
(i)
Principal Secretary/Secretary to the Government
of Uttar Pradesh in Additional Energy Sources Department.
Chairperson
(ii)
Representative, Bureau of Energy Efficiency,
Ministry of Power, Government of India.
Member
(iii)
Principal Secretary to the Government of Uttar
Pradesh in Finance Department or his nominee.
Member
(iv)
Principal Secretary to the Government of Uttar
Pradesh in Industries Development Department or his nominee.
Member
(v)
Principal Secretary to the Government of Uttar
Pradesh in Agriculture Department or his nominee.
Member
(vi)
Principal Secretary to the Government of Uttar
Pradesh in Urban Development Department or his nominee.
Member
(vii)
Principal Secretary to the Government of Uttar
Pradesh in Housing Department or his nominee.
Member
(viii)
Principal Secretary to the Government of Uttar
Pradesh in Energy Department or his nominee.
Member
(ix)
Director, Uttar Pradesh New and Renewable
Secretary Energy Development Agency, Lucknow.
Member
(x)
Chief Town & Country Planner, Uttar Pradesh.
Member
Page 3/4
----- PAGE 4 -----
U.P. State Energy Conservation Fund Rules, 2016
7.
Meeting of the Committee.
- The meeting of the Committee shall be held at least once in every three months.
8.
Functions of the Committee.
- The functions of the Committee shall be, -
(a)
to provide guidance and support to the State Designated Agency for carrying out the energy conservation activities
through Energy Conservation;
(b)
to approve the annual budgets for carrying out the energy conservation activities by the State Designated Agency from
the Energy Conservation Fund;
(c)
to review and monitor the progress of activities carried out by the State Designated Agency from the Fund.
9.
Operation of the Fund.
(1)
The State Designated Agency notified under clause (d) of Section 15 shall operate the fund under the guidance of the
Committee;
(2)
The State Designated Agency shall prepare the annual budget for activities to be funded from the Energy Conservation
Fund before beginning of the financial year and get it approved by the Committee;
(3)
The State Designated Agency shall utilise the Fund as per the budget approved by the Committee by following the
financial rules and procedures;
(4)
The State Designated Agency shall maintain the accounts of the Fund and shall furnish six monthly the statement of
Income and Expenditure of the Fund to the Committee;
(5)
The amount credited to the Fund shall be deposited in saving and Term Deposit Account in such Nationalised Bank as
may be advised by Committee.
10.
Investment of Fund.
(1)
The State Designated Agency shall invest the amount of the Fund in such manner so that it may earn best return of its
investment in the Nationalised Bank/Financial Institutions of the Government of India.
(2)
The State Designated Agency may use the interest of the Fund to meet its annual recurring and non-recurring
expenditures.
11.
Audit of Accounts.
- The accounts of the Fund shall be audited by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India annually.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 4/4