
----- PAGE 1 -----
Uttar Pradesh Control Of Goondas Act, 1970
Uttar Pradesh Control Of Goondas Act, 1970
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/12609263/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
368
]
State of Uttar Pradesh - Act
Uttar Pradesh Control Of Goondas Act, 1970
UTTAR PRADESH
India
Uttar Pradesh Control Of Goondas Act, 1970
Act 8 of 1971
Published in Gazette 8 on 20 January 2017
Assented to on 20 January 2017
Commenced on 20 January 2017
[This is the version of this document from 20 January 2017.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Uttar Pradesh Control Of Goondas Act, 1970
Act No. 8 of 1971
An Act
to make special provisions for the control and suppression of Goondas with a view to the maintenance of public order
It is hereby enacted in the Twenty-first Year of the Republic of India as follows:
1.
Short title and extent
(1)
This Act may be called the Uttar Pradesh Control of Goondas Act, 1970.
(2)
Page 1/6
----- PAGE 2 -----
Uttar Pradesh Control Of Goondas Act, 1970
It extends to the whole of Uttar Pradesh.
2.
Definitions
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,--
(a)
"District Magistrate" includes an Additional District Magistrate specially empowered by the State Government in that
behalf;
(b)
"Goonda" means a person who--
(i)
either by himself or as a member or leader of a gang, habitually commits or attempts to commit, or abets the
commission of an offence punishable under Section 153 or Section 153-B or Section 294 of the Indian Penal Code or
Chapter XV, Chapter XVI, Chapter XVII or Chapter XXII of the said Code; or
(ii)
has been convicted for an offence punishable under the Suppression of Immoral Traffic in Women and Girls Act, 1956;
or
(iii)
has been convicted not less than thrice for an offence punishable under the U. P. Excise Act, 1910 or the Public
Gambling Act, 1867 or Section 25, Section 27 or Section 29 of the Arms Act, 1959; or
(iv)
is generally reputed to be a person who is desperate and dangerous to the community; or
(v)
has been habitually passing indecent remarks or teasing women or girls; or
(vi)
is a tout,
Explanation.-- Tout' means a person who--
(a)
accepts or obtains, or agrees to accept or attempts to obtain from any person for himself or for any other person, any
gratification whatever as a motive or reward for inducing, by corrupt or illegal means any public servant or member of
Government, Parliament or of State Legislature, to do or forbear to do anything or to show favour or disfavour to any
person or to render or attempt to render any service or disservice to any person, with the Central or State Government,
Parliament or State Legislature, any local authority, corporation, Government Company or public servant, or
(b)
procures, in consideration of any remuneration moving from any legal practitioner interested in any legal business, or
proposes to any legal practitioner or to any person interested in legal business to procure, in consideration of any
remuneration moving from either of them, the employment of legal practitioner in such business, or
(c)
for the purposes mentioned in explanation (a) or (b), frequents the precincts of civil, criminal or revenue courts, revenue
or other offices, residential colonies or residences or vicinity of the aforesaid or railway or bus stations, landing stages,
lodging places or other places of public resort; or
(vii)
is a house-grabber.
Explanation.--'House-grabber' means a person who takes or attempts to take or aids or abets in taking unauthorised
possession or having lawfully entered unlawfully remains in possession, of a building including land, garden, garages or
out-houses appurtenant to a building.
3.
Externment, etc. of Goondas
(1)
Where it appears to the District Magistrate--
(a)
that any person is a goonda; and
Page 2/6
----- PAGE 3 -----
Uttar Pradesh Control Of Goondas Act, 1970
(b)
(i)
that his movements or acts in the district or any part thereof are causing, or are calculated to cause alarm, danger or
harm to persons or property; or
(ii)
that there are reasonable grounds for believing that he is engaged or about to engage, in the district or any part thereof,
in the commission of an offence referred to in sub-clauses (i) to (iii) of clause (b) of Section 2, or in the abetment of any
such offence; and
(c)
that witnesses not willing to come forward to give evidence against him by reason of apprehension on their part as
regards the safety of their person or property, the Distirct Magistrate shall by notice in writing inform him of the general
nature of the material allegations against him in respect of clauses (a), (b) and (c) and give him a reasonable opportunity
of tendering an explanation regarding them.
(2)
The person against whom an order under this section is proposed to be made shall have the right to consult and be
defended by a counsel of his choice and shall be given a reasonable opportunity of examining himself, if he so desires,
and also of examining any other witnesses that he may wish to produce in support of his explanation, unless for reasons
to be recorded in writing the District Magistrate is of opinion that the request is made for the purpose of vexation or
delay.
(3)
Thereupon the District Magistrate on being satisfied that the conditions specified in clauses (a), (b) and (c) of
sub-section (1) exist may by order in writing--
(a)
direct him to remove himself outside the area within the limits of his local jurisdiction or such area and any district or
districts or any part thereof, contiguous thereto, by such route, if any, and within such time as may be specified in the
order and to desist from entering the said area or the area and such contiguous district or districts or part thereof, as the
case may be, from which he was directed to remove himself until the expiry of such period not exceeding six months as
may be specified in the said order:
(b)
(i)
require such person to notify his movements or to report himself, or to do both, in such manner, at such time and to such
authority or person as may be specified in the order:
(ii)
prohibit or restrict possession or use by him of any such article as may be specified in the order,
(iii)
direct him otherwise to conduct himself in such manner as may be specified in the order, until the expiry of such period,
not exceeding six months as may be specified in the order.
4.
Permission to return temporarily
The District Magistrate may, by an order permit any person in respect of whom an order has been made under clause
(a) of sub-section (3) of Section 3 to enter or return, for a temporary period, into or to the area from which he was
directed to remove himself, subject to such conditions as the District Magistrate may specify and may at any time
rescind any such permission.
5.
Extension of period of order
The District Magistrate may, after giving, except where for reasons to be recorded in writing he is satisfied that it is
impracticable so to do, to the person concerned an opportunity of making a representation in that behalf, extend from
time to time in the interest of the general public the period specified in the order made under Section 3, but the period so
extended shall in no case exceed two years in the aggregate.
6.
Appeal
Page 3/6
----- PAGE 4 -----
Uttar Pradesh Control Of Goondas Act, 1970
(1)
Any person aggrieved by an order made under Section 3, Section 4 or Section 5 may appeal to the Commissioner within
fifteen days from the date of such order.
(2)
The appellant or his counsel shall not be entitled to inspect or to be informed of any record which was not disclosed to
him at the inquiry, if any, held under Section 3.
(3)
The Commissioner may either confirm the order, with or without modification, or set it aside, and may, pending disposal
of the appeal, stay the operation of the order subject to such terms, if any, as he thinks fit.
7.
Recognizance for certain purposes
(1)
The District Magistrate or the Commissioner may for the purpose of--
(a)
securing the attendance of any person against whom an order is proposed to be made under Section 3, or has been
made but its operation has been stayed under Section 6; or
(b)
securing the due observance of any direction, requirement, prohibition, restriction or condition specified in an order
made in respect of any person under Section 3, Section 4, Section 5 or Section 6,-- require such person to enter into a
bond, with or without sureties, and the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, shall mutatis mutandis apply
in relation to such bond as they apply in relation to bonds executed or required to be executed under the said Code.
(2)
In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provisions--
(a)
the District Magistrate while issuing notice to any person under sub-section (1) of Section 3 may issue a warrant for his
arrest with endorsement thereon of a direction in terms of the provisions of Section 71 of the said Code, and the
provisions of Sections 70 to 85 and 87 to 89 of the said Code shall, so far as may be, apply in relation to such warrant
as if the District Magistrate were a Court;
(b)
if any person who is required to execute a bond for the observance of any direction, requirement, prohibition, restriction
or condition fails to do so, he shall be committed to prison, or if he is already in prison, be detained in prison, until the
period for which the direction, requirement, prohibition, restriction or condition is to operate or until within such period he
executes the bond with or without sureties, as the case may be, in terms of the order, and the provisions of Sections 119
to 121, 123 and 124 of the said Code shall mutatis mutandis apply as if the District Magistrate or the Commissioner
were a court;
(c)
Sections 445 to 447 of the said Code shall mutatis mutandis apply in relation to all bonds executed under this Section as
if the District Magistrate or the Commissioner were a court.
8.
Nature of evidence
The District Magistrate or the Commissioner may for the purpose of satisfying himself as to whether the conditions
necessary for the making or confirmation of an order under Section 3 or Section 5 exist or not, take into consideration
any evidence which he considers to have probative value, and the provisions of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, shall not
apply.
9.
Rescission of order
The District Magistrate or the Commissioner may at any time rescind an order made under Section 3, whether or not
such order was confirmed on appeal under Section 6.
10.
Punishment for contravention of orders under Sections 3 to 6
Whoever contravenes any order made under Section 3, Section 4, Section 5 or Section 6 shall be punishable with
Page 4/6
----- PAGE 5 -----
Uttar Pradesh Control Of Goondas Act, 1970
rigorous imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years but shall not be less than six months, and shall also
be liable to fine.
11.
Forcible removal of externed Goonda re-entering, etc., in contravention of order
(1)
Where, after an order is made against a person under Section 3, Section 4, Section 5 or Section 6 such person--
(a)
has failed to remove himself from the district or part as directed by the order; or
(b)
has re-entered the area, from which he was ordered to remove himself during the period of operation of that order, the
District Magistrate may cause him to be arrested and removed in police custody to such place outside the area specified
in the said order as he may direct.
(2)
Any police officer may arrest without warrant any person reasonably suspected of an act or omission specified in
sub-section (1), and shall forthwith forward the person so arrested to the nearest Magistrate who shall cause him to be
forwarded to the District Magistrate, who may thereupon cause the person to be removed in police custody to such
place outside the area specified in the said order as he may direct.
(3)
The provisions of this section are in addition to and not in derogation of the provisions of Section 10.
12.
Cognizance of offence
No Magistrate shall take cognizance of an offence punishable under Section 10, except--
(a)
upon a report in writing of the facts constituting such offence made by a police officer; or
(b)
upon information received from any person other than a police officer, or upon his own knowledge or suspicion, that
such offence has been committed.
13.
Savings as to orders
No order, made in exercise of any power conferred by or under this Act shall be called in question in any court.
14.
Protection of action taken under the Act
(1)
No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against any person for anything which is in good faith done or
intended to be done in pursuance of this Act or of any order made thereunder.
(2)
No suit or other legal proceeding shall lie against the State Government for any damage caused or likely to be caused
by anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of this Act or of any order made thereunder.
15.
Power to make rules
(1)
The State Government may by notification in the Gazette make rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act.
(2)
All rules made under this Act shall, as soon as may after they are made, be laid before each House of the State
Legislature, while it is in session, for a total period of not less than fourteen days extending in its one session or more
than one successive sessions and shall, unless some later date is appointed, take effect from the date of their
publication in the Gazette subject to such modifications or annulments as the two Houses of the Legislature may during
the said period agree to make; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the
validity of anything previously done thereunder.
16.
Repeal of U. P. Ordinance No. 15 of 1970
Page 5/6
----- PAGE 6 -----
Uttar Pradesh Control Of Goondas Act, 1970
The U. P. Control of Goondas Ordinance, 1970, is hereby repealed.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 6/6