
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Uttar Pradesh Vigilance Establishment Act, 1965
The Uttar Pradesh Vigilance Establishment Act, 1965
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/100719709/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
41
]
State of Uttar Pradesh - Act
The Uttar Pradesh Vigilance Establishment Act, 1965
UTTAR PRADESH
India
The Uttar Pradesh Vigilance Establishment Act, 1965
Act 7 of 1965
Published in Gazette 7 on 20 January 2017
Assented to on 20 January 2017
Commenced on 20 January 2017
[This is the version of this document from 20 January 2017.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Uttar Pradesh Vigilance Establishment Act, 1965
(U.P. Act No. VII of 1965)
An Act to make provision for the constitution, superintendence and administration of the Uttar
Pradesh Vigilance Establishment as a special police force.
It is hereby enacted in the Sixteenth Year of the Republic of India as follows:
1.
Short title and extent ?
(1)
This Act may be called the Uttar Pradesh Vigilance Establishment Act, 1965.
(2)
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Uttar Pradesh Vigilance Establishment Act, 1965
It extends to the whole of Uttar Pradesh.
2.
Constitution and powers of the Vigilance Establishment-
(1)
Not withstanding anything in the police Act, 1961 the State Government may constitute a special police force to be
called the Uttar Pradesh Vigilance Establishment for the investigation of offences notified under section 3.
(2)
Subject to nay orders which the State Government may make in this behalf, members of the said establishment shall
have, in relation to the investigation of such offences and arrest of persons concerned in such offences, all the powers,
duties, privileges and liabilities which police officers holding corresponding ranks in the ordinary police force of the State
have in connection with investigation of offences, and shall for purposes of conferment of powers under any law for the
time being in force be deemed to be police officers holding corresponding ranks in the ordinary police force of the state.
(3)
Any member of the said establishment of or above the rank of Sub-Inspector may, subject to any orders which the State
Government may make in this behalf, exercise, in discharging his functions under sub-section(2) any of the powers of
the officer-in-charge of a police station in the area in which he is for the time being and when so exercising such powers
shall, subject to any such orders as aforesaid, be deemed to be an officer-in-charge of a police station discharging the
functions of such an officer within the limits of his station.
3.
Offences to be investigated by the Vigilance Establishment ?
State Government may, by notification in the Gazette, specify the offence or classes of offences which are to be
investigated by the Uttar Pradesh Vigilance Establishment.
4.
Superintendence and administration of the Vigilance Establishment-
(1)
The superintendence of the Uttar Pradesh Vigilance Establishment shall vest in the State Government.
(2)
The administration of the said establishment shall vest in officer, to be called the Director of Vigilance, appointed in this
behalf by the State Government, who shall exercise, in respect of that establishment, such of the powers exercisable by
the Inspector General of Police in respect of the ordinary police force of the State as the State Government may specify
in this behalf.
(3)
Save as otherwise provided in this Act the provisions of the Police Act, 1861 and of the rules and regulations made
thereunder as the apply in relation to members of the ordinary police force of the State shall apply in relation to
members of the said establishment, subject to such adaptation, whether by way of modification, addition or omission as
may be made therein by the State Government consistently with the purposes of the Act.
5.
Repeal and saving.-
(1)
The Uttar Pradesh Vigilance Establishment Ordinance, 1965, is hereby repealed.
(2)
Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken under the said ordinance shall be deemed to have been
done or taken under this Act, as if this Act had commenced on the fifth day of January 1965.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2