
----- PAGE 1 -----
The U.P. Food Safety and Drug Administration Department Analysts (Food And Drug Laboratory...
The U.P. Food Safety and Drug Administration Department Analysts
(Food And Drug Laboratory) Service Rules, 2017
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/80956686/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Uttar Pradesh - Act
The U.P. Food Safety and Drug Administration Department Analysts (Food And Drug Laboratory) Service Rules, 2017
UTTAR PRADESH
India
The U.P. Food Safety and Drug Administration Department Analysts (Food And Drug Laboratory) Service Rules, 2017
Rule
THE-U-P-FOOD-SAFETY-AND-DRUG-ADMINISTRATION-DEPARTMENT-ANALYSTS-FOOD-AND-DRUG-LABORAT
ORY-SERVICE-RULES-2017 of 2017
Published on 19 December 2017
Commenced on 19 December 2017
[This is the version of this document from 19 December 2017.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The U.P. Food Safety and Drug Administration Department Analysts (Food And Drug Laboratory) Service Rules, 2017
Published vide Notification No. 76/2017/3135/88-2017-99AU.-09, dated 19.12.2017
76.
/2017/3135/LXXXVIII-2017-99AU.-09. - In exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to Article 309 of the
Constitution and in supersession of all existing rules and orders on the subject, the Governor is pleased to make the
following rules regulating recruitment and the conditions of service of persons appointed to the Uttar Pradesh Food
Safety and Drug Administration Department Analysts (Food and Drug Laboratory) Service:
Page 1/5
----- PAGE 2 -----
The U.P. Food Safety and Drug Administration Department Analysts (Food And Drug Laboratory...
Part I
General
1.
Short title and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Uttar Pradesh Food Safety and Drug Administration Department Analysts (Food And
Drug Laboratory) Service Rules, 2017.
(2)
They shall come into force at once.
2.
Status of the Service.
- The Uttar Pradesh Food Safety and Drug Administration Department Analysts (Food And Drug Laboratory) Service is a
service comprising Group "A", Group "B" and Group "C" Posts.
3.
Definitions.
- In these rules, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context:
(a)
"Act" means the Uttar Pradesh Public Services (Reservation for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other
Backward Classes) Act, 1994;
(b)
"appointing authority" in respect of the posts of Joint Commissioner/Chief Government Public Analyst, Scientific Officer-I
(Food), Scientific Officer-I (Drug), Scientific Officer-II (Food) and Scientific Officer-11 (Drug) means the Governor and for
the remaining posts in the service means the Commissioner, Food Safety and Drug Administration Department, Uttar
Pradesh;
(c)
"citizen of India" means a person who is or is deemed to be a citizen of India under Part II of the Constitution;
(d)
"Commission" means the Uttar Pradesh Public Service Commission;
(e)
"Constitution" means the Constitution of India;
(f)
"Government" means the State Government of Uttar Pradesh;
(g)
"Governor" means the Governor of Uttar Pradesh;
(h)
"member of the service" means a person substantively appointed under these rules or the rules or orders in force prior to
the commencement of these rules to a post in the cadre of the Service;
(i)
"other backward classes of citizens" means the backward classes of citizens specified in Schedule I of the Act as
amended from time to time;
(j)
"service" means the the Uttar Pradesh Food Safety and Drug Administration Department Analysts (Food And Drug
Laboratory) Service;
(k)
"Subordinate Commission" means the Uttar Pradesh Subordinate Services Selection Commission;
(l)
"substantive appointment" means an appointment, not being an ad hoc appointment, on a post in the cadre of the
service, made after selection in accordance with the rules and, if there were no rules, in accordance with the procedure
prescribed for the time being by executive instructions issued by the Government;
(m)
"year of recruitment" means a period of twelve months commencing on the first day of July of a calendar year.
Page 2/5
----- PAGE 3 -----
The U.P. Food Safety and Drug Administration Department Analysts (Food And Drug Laboratory...
Part II
Cadre
4.
Cadre of service.
(1)
The strength of the service and of each category of posts therein shall be such as may be determined by the
Government from time to time.
(2)
The strength of the service and of each category of posts therein shall, until orders varying the same are passed under
sub-rule (1), be as given in Appendix.
Provided that-
(i)
the appointing authority may leave unfilled or the Governor may hold in abeyance any vacant post, without thereby
entitling any person to compensation; or
(ii)
the Governor may create such additional permanent or temporary posts as he may consider proper.
Part III
Recruitment
5.
Source of recruitment.
- Recruitment to the various categories of posts in the service shall be made from the following sources:
SECTION I (FOOD AND DRUG)
Joint Commissioner/Chief Government Public Analyst. - By promotion through the Selection Committee from amongst
substantively appointed Scientific Officers-1 (Food), and Scientific Officers-I (Drug), who have completed seven years
service as such on the first day of the year of recruitment.
SECTION II (FOOD)
(1)
Scientific Officer-1 (Food). - By promotion through the Selection Committee from amongst substantively appointed
Scientific Officers-II (Food) who have completed seven years service as such on the first day of the year of recruitment.
(2)
Scientific Officer-II (Food). - By promotion through the Selection Committee from amongst substantively appointed
Senior Analysts (Food) and Microbiologists (Food) in the ratio of 70:30 respectively who have completed four years
service as such on the first day of the year of recruitment.
(3)
Microbiologist (Food). - By direct recruitment through Commission.
(4)
Senior Analyst (Food). - By promotion through the Selection Committee from amongst substantively appointed Junior
Analysts (Food) who have completed five years service as such on the first day of the year of recruitment.
(5)
Junior Analyst (Food). - By direct recruitment through the Subordinate Commission.
SECTION III (DRUG)
(1)
Scientific Officer-I (Drug). - By promotion through the Selection Committee from amongst substantively appointed
Scientific Officers-II (Drug) who have completed seven years service as such on the first day of the year of recruitment.
(2)
Scientific Officer-II (Drug). - By promotion through the Selection Committee from amongst substantively appointed
Senior Analysts (Drug) who have completed four years service as such on the first day of the year of recruitment.
(3)
Senior Analyst (Drug). - By promotion through the Selection Committee from amongst substantively appointed Junior
Analysts (Drug) who have completed five years service as such on first day of the year of recruitment.
(4)
Page 3/5
----- PAGE 4 -----
The U.P. Food Safety and Drug Administration Department Analysts (Food And Drug Laboratory...
Junior Analyst (Drug). - By direct recruitment through the Subordinate Commission.
6.
Reservation.
- Reservation for the candidates belonging to the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and other categories shall be in
accordance with the Act, and the Uttar Pradesh Public Services (Reservation for Physically Handicapped, Dependents
of Freedom Fighters and Ex-Servicemen) Act, 1993. as amended from time to time, and the orders of the Government in
force at the time of the recruitment.
Part IV
Qualifications
7.
Nationality.
- A candidate for direct recruitment to a post in the Service must be:
(a)
a citizen of India; or
(b)
a Tibetan refugee who came over to India before the 1st January, 1962 with the intention of permanently settling in
India; or
(c)
a person of Indian origin who has migrated from Pakistan, Burma, Sri Lanka or any of the East African countries of
Kenya, Uganda and the United Republic of Tanzania (formerly Tanganyika and Zanzibar) with the intention of
permanently settling in India:
Provided that a candidate belonging to category (b) or (c) above must be a person in whose favour a certificate of
eligibility has been issued by the State Government:
Provided further that a candidate belonging to category (b) will also be required to obtain a certificate of eligibility
granted by the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Intelligence Branch, Uttar Pradesh:
Provided also that if a candidate belongs to category (c) above, no certificate of eligibility will be issued for a period of
more than one year and the retention of such a candidate in service beyond a period of one year, shall be subject to his
acquiring Indian citizenship.
Note. - A candidate in whose case a certificate of eligibility is necessary but the same has neither been issued nor
refused, may be admitted to an examination or interview and he may also be provisionally appointed subject to the
necessary certificate being obtained by him or issued in his favour.
8.
Academic qualification.
- A candidate for direct recruitment to the various posts in the service must possess the following qualifications.
SECTION I (FOOD)
(1)
Microbiologist (Food). - A Postgraduate Degree in Microbiology from a University established by law in India or a
qualification recognised by the Government as equivalent thereto with at least three years of experience of
Microbiological testing of Food.
(2)
Junior Analyst (Food). - A Master's Degree in Chemistry or Biochemistry or Microbiology or Dairy Chemistry or Food
Technology, Food and Nutrition or Bachelor of Technology in Food/Dairy /Oil or Degree in Veterinary Sciences or
equivalent degree from a University established in India by law.
SECTION-II (DRUG)
(3)
Junior Analyst (Drugs). - A Bachelor's Degree in Pharmacy from a University established by law in India or a
qualification recognised by the Government as equivalent there to.
9.
Preferential qualification.
- A candidate who has:-
(i)
Page 4/5
----- PAGE 5 -----
The U.P. Food Safety and Drug Administration Department Analysts (Food And Drug Laboratory...
served in the Territorial Army for a minimum period of two years, or
(ii)
obtained a "B" certificate of National Cadet Corps, shall, other things being equal, be given preference in the matter of
direct recruitment.
10.
Age.
- A candidate for direct recruitment must have attained the age of 21 years and must not have attained the age of more
than 40 years on the first day of July of the calendar year in which vacancies for direct recruitment are advertised:
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 5/5