
----- PAGE 1 -----
The Uttar Pradesh Upahar Vastu Adhiniyam, 1970
The Uttar Pradesh Upahar Vastu Adhiniyam, 1970
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/19046543/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
State of Uttar Pradesh - Act
The Uttar Pradesh Upahar Vastu Adhiniyam, 1970
UTTAR PRADESH
India
The Uttar Pradesh Upahar Vastu Adhiniyam, 1970
Act 18 of 1970
Published in Gazette 18 on 20 January 2017
Assented to on 20 January 2017
Commenced on 20 January 2017
[This is the version of this document from 20 January 2017.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
The Uttar Pradesh Upahar Vastu Adhiniyam, 1970
[Act No. 18 of 1970]
An Act to provide for the prohibition of and punishment for unlawful possession of or dealing with goods supplied for
relief and other charitable purposes by international organisations.
It is hereby enacted in the Twenty-first Year of the Republic of India as follows:?
1.
Short title and extent
(1)
This Act may be called the Uttar Pradesh Upahar Vastu Adhiniyam, 1970.
(2)
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
The Uttar Pradesh Upahar Vastu Adhiniyam, 1970
It extends to the whole of Uttar Pradesh.
2.
Definitions
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires:?
(a)
"gift goods" means any of the goods specified in Schedule I, supplied by way of gift by any relief organisation to the
Government of India or to the State Government or to any person on behalf of the Government of India or the State
Government;
(b)
"relief organisation" means any organisation specified in Schedule II; and
(c)
"State Government" means the Government of Uttar Pradesh.
3.
Punishment for unauthorised possession of or dealing with gift goods
Whoever without reasonable cause is in possession of or deals with any gift goods otherwise than in conformity with the
scheme relating to the supply, distribution and custody of such goods shall on conviction be liable to be punished with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years or with fine or with both.
Explanation?Ignorance of the identity of the goods being gift goods shall not by itself be deemed to be reasonable cause
for the purposes of this section.
4.
Offences to be cognizable, and triable by First Class Magistrate
(1)
Any police officer may arrest without warrant any person who is reasonably suspected of having committed any offence
punishable under this Act.
(2)
No court inferior to that of a Magistrate of the first class shall try any such offence.
5.
Power to order forfeiture
Any court trying an offence punishable under section 3 may direct that any property in respect of which the court is
satisfied that such offence has been committed shall be forfeited to Government.
6.
Offences by companies
(1)
If the person committing an offence punishable under this Act is a company, every person who at the time the offence
was committed was in charge of and was responsible to the company for the conduct of business of the company, as
well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and
punished accordingly:
Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable to punishment if he proves that
the offence was committed without his knowledge or that he exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission or
such offence.
(2)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where any such offence has been committed by a company and
it is proved that the offence has been committed with the consent or connivance of any managing agent, secretaries and
treasurers, director, manager, secretary or other officer of the company, such managing agent, secretaries and
treasurers, director, manager, secretary or other officer shall also he deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be
liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.
Explanation?For the purposes of this section?
(a)
"company" means a body corporate and includes a firm or other association of individuals; and
(b)
"director", in relation to a firm, means a partner in the firm.
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
The Uttar Pradesh Upahar Vastu Adhiniyam, 1970
7.
Power to amend Schedules
(1)
The State Government may, by notification in the Gazette:
(i)
add any goods to, or omit any goods from, Schedule I;
(ii)
add any organisation to, or omit any organisation from, Schedule II;
and on the publication of such notification such goods or organisation shall be deemed to be included in or, as the case
may be, omitted from such Schedule.
(2)
Every notification issued under sub-section (1) shall, as soon as may be after it is issued, be laid before each House of
the State Legislature while it is in session, for a total period of fourteen days, extending in its one session or more than
one successive sessions and shall, unless some later date is appointed by the State Government, take effect from the
date of its publication in the Gazette, subject to such modifications or annulments as the two Houses may during the
said period agree to make, so, however, that any such modifications or annulments shall be without prejudice to the
validity of anything previously done there under.
[See sections 2 (b) and 7]
(1)
Corn meal.
(2)
Milk powder.
(3)
Soyabean oil; sunflower seed oil.
[See sections 2(b) and 7]
(1)
United Nations International Children Emergency Fund (UNICEF).
(2)
Co-operative for American Relief Everywhere (CARE).
(3)
Church World Service.
(4)
Lutheran World Relief.
(5)
Catholic Relief Service.
(6)
Young Men's Christian Association (YMCA).
(7)
International Red Cross.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3