
----- PAGE 1 -----
THE UTTAR PRADESH RECOVERY OF DAMAGES TO PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY ACT, 2020
THE UTTAR PRADESH RECOVERY OF DAMAGES TO PUBLIC AND
PRIVATE PROPERTY ACT, 2020
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/153268039/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
1
]
State of Uttar Pradesh - Act
THE UTTAR PRADESH RECOVERY OF DAMAGES TO PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY ACT, 2020
UTTAR PRADESH
India
THE UTTAR PRADESH RECOVERY OF DAMAGES TO PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY ACT, 2020
Act 11 of 2020
Published in Uttar Pradesh Legislature No. 1557 (2)/LXXIX-V-1-20-1(ka)14-20 on 31 August 2020
Commenced on 31 August 2020
[This is the version of this document from 31 August 2020.]
IN pursuance of the provisions of clause (3) of Article 348 of the Constitution, the Governor is pleased to order the
publication of the following English translation of the Uttar Pradesh Lok Tatha Niji Sampatti Kshati Vasooli Adhiniyam,
2020 (Uttar Pradesh Adhiniyam Sankhya 11 of 2020) as passed by the Uttar Pradesh Legislature and assented to by
the Governor on August 28, 2020. The Grih (Police) Anubhag-9 is administratively concerned with the said Adhiniyam.
AN
ACT
to deal with all such acts of violence at public places and to control its persistence and escalation and to provide for
recovery of damage to public or private property during banal, bundh, riots, public commotion, protests or thereof, in
respect of property and constitution of claims tribunals to investigate the damages caused and to award compensation
related there to.
Page 1/7
----- PAGE 2 -----
THE UTTAR PRADESH RECOVERY OF DAMAGES TO PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY ACT, 2020
IT Is HEREBY enacted in the Seventy-first Year of the Republic of India as follows
Chapter 1
PRELIMINARY
1.
(1)
This Act may be called the Uttar Pradesh Recovery of Damages to Public and Private Property Act, 2020.
(2)
It extends to the whole of Uttar Pradesh.
(3)
It shall be deeined to have come into force on March 15, 2020.
2.
In this Act, unless the contest otherwise requires,-
(a)
"Claims Commissioner" means an officer not below the rank of Additional District Magistrate designated by the State
Government;
(b)
"Claims Tribunal" means a claims Tribunal constituted under this Act;
(c)
"Damage" means loss, injury, or deterioration, caused by any act or omission by any person to another person or
property thereof;
(d)
"Mischief" shall have the same meaning as in section 425 of the Indian Penal Code;
(e)
"Person" shall have the same meaning as in section 11 of the Indian Penal Code;
(f)
"Private property" means a movable or an immovable property owned and controlled by any person or any religious
body, society or trust or
waqf, which is not public property under clause (g) of section 2 of this Act, or firms over which their owners have
exclusive and absolute legal right;
(g)
"Public Property" means any property, whether movable or immovable and includes any machinery which is owned by,
or in the possession of, or under the control of-
(1)
Central Government; or
(11)
the State Government; or
(111)
any local authority; or any corporation or a company as defined in Companies Act, 2013, established by, or under, a
State Act; or any institution, concern or undertaking which the State Government may, by notification in the Gazette,
specify in this behalf:
Provided that the State Government, shall not specify any other institution concern or undertaking under this sub-clause
unless such institution, concern or
undertaking is financed wholly or substantially by funds provided directly or indirectly by the State Government or any
other State Government or partially by the State Government and partially by the Central State Government or any other
State Government.
Chapter 2
CLAIM PETITION, REVIEW OF CASES AND INVESTIGATION
3.
Claim petition for public or private property
On receipt of the report of concern circle officer of police which is based on First Information Report of the incident and
other information gathered in the
Page 2/7
----- PAGE 3 -----
THE UTTAR PRADESH RECOVERY OF DAMAGES TO PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY ACT, 2020
meanwhile, the District Magistrate or Commissioner of Police or the Head of Office shall take immediate steps to file
claim petition before the Claims Tribunal for compensation, preferably within three months of the date of causing of the
damage to the public property.
4.
Review of cases
The District Collector or the Commissioner as the case may be, will review the conduct of claim cases filed for
compensation on a quarterly basis and send its report to the Government.
5.
Monitoring of Cases
The Head of the Department shall monitor the conduct and disposal of claim filed for compensation and give necessary
directions to the Head of Office
periodically.
6.
Claim petition fix private property
Private property owners, whose property had also damaged in such incident, after getting a copy of such report from the
51-10/S0 concerned in such manner as per rules to file their Claim petitions for compensation.
Chapter 3
CLAIMS TRIBUNAL, FUNCTION AND POWERS
7.
Constitution of Claim Tribunal
(1)
The State Government, by notification in the Gazette, constitute one or more damage to property Claims Tribunal
hereinafter referred to as Claims Tribunal for such area as may be specified in the notification for the purpose of
adjudicating upon claims for compensation in respect of damages to any public
property or private property or both and to perform the functions assigned to it under this Act.
(2)
Claims Tribunal shall consist of such number of members as the State Government may think fit to appoint and where it
consists of two or more members, one of them shall be appointed as the Chairman thereof.
(3)
A person shall not be qualified for appointment to Claims Tribunal unless he has been a Retd. District Judge( as a
Chairman), or is an officer of Additidnal Commissioner Rank (as a Member).
(4)
Where two or more Claims Tribunals are constituted for any area, the State Government, may by general or special
order, regulate the distribution of business among them.
8.
Function and powers of the Claims Tribunal
(1)
It shall be the duty of the Claims Tribunal to determine the damages caused to a public or a private property in the
incidents occurred under section 3 or
section 4 and to award suitable compensation related thereto.
(2)
The Claims Tribunal may, if it thinks fit, appoint a Claims Commissioner to estimate the damages and investigate liability
to assist it in holding the inquiry.
(3)
The Claims Tribunal may, also appoint one Assessor in every district as the case may be to assist the Claims
Commissioner who is technically qualified to asses such damage from the panel appointed by the State Government.
(4)
The remuneration, to be paid the person or persons under sub-section (2) and,sub-section (3) shall in every case be
determined by the State Government.
(5)
The Claims Commissioner and the Assessor may seek instructions from the claims Tribunal to summon the existing
Page 3/7
----- PAGE 4 -----
THE UTTAR PRADESH RECOVERY OF DAMAGES TO PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY ACT, 2020
video or other recordings from private and public sources to pinpoint the damage and establish nexus with the
perpetrators of the damage.
(6)
The Claims Commissioner will make a report to the Claims Tribunal within a period of three months of within the
extended time, if any, granted by the Claims Tribunal. The Claims Tribunal will determine the liability after hearing the
parties.
(7)
The Claims Tribunals may, subject to any rules that may be made in this behalf, follow such summary procedure as it
thinks fit.
The Claims Tribunal shall have all the powers of a Civil Court for the purpose of taking evidence on oath and of
enforcing the attendance of witnesses
and of compelling the discovery and production of documents and material objects and for such other purposes as may
be prescribed; and the Claims
Tribunal shall be deemed to be a Civil Court for all the purposes of section 195 and Chapter XXVI of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1973(2 of 1974)
PROCEDURE OF CLAIMS TRIBUNAL
9.
Claim petition for compensation
(1)
Every application/Claim petition for compensation shall filled within three Application/month be accompanied by a fee of
rupees twenty five in the form of court- fee stamps.
(2)
All applications, before the Claims Tribunal, other than application mentioned in clause (i) shall be stamped with a
court-fee stamp of rupees eft fty. A
process fee of rupees hundred shall be in the form of court-fee stamps paid for each witness or party summoned.
(3)
An application under this section shall be presented before the Claims Tribunal by the petitioner unless he is prevented
by sufficient cause from appearing
personally, in which case the application may be presented by his agent authorized in writing in this behalf. .
10.
Cause of action to claim public and private property damage to property
The cause of action for initiating steps would be acts causing damage to public and private property.
11.
Who may initiate the action for claiming compensation
Wherever a destruction, or loss or damage to public and private property  takes place due to hartal, bundh, riots, public
commotion, protests or thereof, the primary  action for responsibility for -initiating  before the Claims claiming Tribunal,
constituted under this Act, of competent jurisdiction, preferably within three compensation months of occurrence of the
incident; however Claim Tribunal may condone the delay of for public and 30 days if applicant shows the reasonable
cause.
(1)
For the public property, would vest with the Head of the Office exercising time lirnit control over the property damaged
during and as a result of the bundhs, strikes, riots, public commotion and protests etc. In the case of public sector
undertakings, the Head of the Office or the Chief Executives ot any person authorized by the Head of Department or
Chief Executive shall take necessary steps to file Claim petition for compensation.
(2)
For the private property, would vest with the owner of the private property authorized representative or trustee having
exclusive and absolute legal rights and who is not trespasser of the propehy damaged, may file claim petition for
payment of compensation.
12.
Who may be joined as respondents
In a Claim Petition for damages to property the Head of office or owner of the private property as the case may be will
Page 4/7
----- PAGE 5 -----
THE UTTAR PRADESH RECOVERY OF DAMAGES TO PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY ACT, 2020
include as respondents, the persons who
within his knowledge had exhorted, instigated or committed such Acts, the persons who are so named in the report of
the police. The names and designation of the person who exhorted or perpetrated the acts leading in the destruction or
damages, who sponsored, called for or exhorted the agitation.
13.
The Claims Tribunalihall send to the respondents a copy of application together with a notice of the day on Which it will
hear the application. The tribunal shall proceed ex-party against the respondent who failed to appear before the tribunal
and the tribunal shall attatch the property and direct the authorities to publish the name, address along with photograph
with a warning for public at large, not to purchase the property of the respondent.
14.
The respondents, at or before the first hearing or within such further time as the Claims Tribunal may allow, which shall
not be later than thirty days from the date of service of notices, file a written statement dealing with the damages claimed
in the claim petition and any such written statement shall form part of the record.
15.
The Claims Tribunal shall decide the matter with due observance of natural justice and may also take evidence on oath
and summon the document as matter require.
16.
The Claims Tribunal may, at any stage of an enquiry before it and after due notice to the parties visit and inspect the site
of the incident or any other place or thing which in its opinion, is necessary to view for a proper decision of the claim
petition.
17.
The Claims Tribunal may, for reasons to be recorded, on the application of a Party or otherwise, adjourn the hearing
from time to time. When adjournment is granted on application the Claims Tribunal may, make such order, as it thinks fit,
with respect to the costs occasioned by the adjournment. In any case not more than three adjournments shall be given
to a party:
Provided that the Claim Tribunal shall decide the claim petition expeditiously and in any case within one year of the
framing of the issues.
18.
The Claims Tribunal may, in its discretion, allow any party to appear himself before it through a legal practitioner during
hearing of the case.
19.
(1)
The Claims Tribunal, in passing order, shall record concisely in judgment the finding on each of the issues framed and
the reasons for such finding and make an award, specifying the amount of compensation to be paid and shall also
specify the person or persons jointly or severally separately as the case may be to whom compensation shall be
payable:
Provided that the Claims Tribunal may, for reasons to be recorded, award an 'Exemplary Damages' to an extent not
exceeding double of the amount of the compensation liable to be paid :
Provided further that if any amount as compensation has been paid, to the owner of the private property damaged in
incident, by the State Government or Central Government or Insurance company or any other agency in this behalf, the
Claims Tribunal shall adjust such amount from the amount of compensation so awarded:
Provided also that the compensation shall not be less than the market value of the property damaged on the day of
incident.
(2)
Where compenstion is awarded to two or more person, under sub-section
(I)
the Claims Tribunal shall a'so specify the amount payable to each of them.
As soon as the order of recovery for damage is passed the property of the respondent to be attatched and authorities
shall be directed to publish the name address along with photograph with a warning for public at large not to purchase
property attatched.
(3)
Page 5/7
----- PAGE 6 -----
THE UTTAR PRADESH RECOVERY OF DAMAGES TO PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY ACT, 2020
The Claims Tribunal may while disposing of the claim for compensation, make such orders regarding costs and
expenses incurred in the proceeding as it thinks fit.
20.
Where any Claims Tribunal allows a claim for compensation made under this Act such Tribunal may direct that in
addition to the amount of compensation simple interest shall also be paid at such rate and from such date not earlier
than the date of making the claim as it may specify in this behalf.
21.
(1)
The Principles of absolute liability shall apply once the nexus with the event that precipitated the damage is established.
(2)
The liability will be borne by the actual perpetrators of the crime or instigate or incites giving rise to the liability to be
shared, as finally determined by the Claims Tribunal.
(3)
Damages shall be assessed for?
damages to public property;
damages to private property;
cost of the actions by the authorities and police to take preventive and other actions.
22.
Every order or award passed by Claim Tribunal shall be final and no appeal is maintainable against such order before
any court.
23.
Where any amount is due from any person under an award, the Claims Tribunal may, on an application made to it by the
person entitled to the amount, issue a certificate for the amount to the Collector and the Collector shall proceed to
recover the same in the same manner as an arrear of land revenue.
24.
Where any Claims Tribunal has been constituted for any area, no Civil Court shall have jurisdiction to entertain any
question relating to any claim for compensation which may be adjudicated upon by the Claims Tribunal for that area,
and no injunction in respect of any action taken or to be taken by or before the Claims Tribunal in respect of the claim for
compensation shall be granted by the Civil Court.
25.
Proceedings of claim petition shall not be barred by the criminal proceeding, if any originated by the concerned incident.
Chapter 4
MISCELLANEOUS
26.
The State Government may, by notification, make rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act.
27.
(1)
If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provision of this Act the State Government may by a notified order, make
such provisions, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act as apkear to it to be necessary or expedient for removing
the difficulty.
(2)
No order under sub-section (1) shall be made after the expiration of a period of two year from the commencement of this
Act.
(3)
Every order made under sub-section (1) shall be laid, as soon as may be, before both Houses of the State Legislature
and the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 23-A of the Uttar Pradesh General Clauses Act, 1904.
(4)
Where this Act is silent on any subject of proceeding before tribunal, the provisions of Civil Procedure Code shall apply
on the same.
28.
(1)
Page 6/7
----- PAGE 7 -----
THE UTTAR PRADESH RECOVERY OF DAMAGES TO PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY ACT, 2020
With the promulgation of this Act any other existing law or Government orders corresponding to this Act are hereby
cancelled and declared ineffective:
Provided that subject to the provisions of this Act, the repeal shall not effect,?
(a)
the previous operation of any such Government Orders or law or anything duly done or suffered thereunder;
(b)
any right, privilege, obligation or liability acquired, accrued or incurred under such Government Order or law;
(c)
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred in respect of any offence committed against such Government Order or
law;
(d)
any investigation, legal proceeding or remedy in respect of such right, privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or
punishment as aforesaid;  and any such investigation, legal proceeding or remedy may be instituted or enforced and any
such penalty, forfeiture, or punishment may be imposed as if such Government Order or law had not been repealed.
(2)
Notwithstanding anything contained in the proviso to sub-section (1) anything done or any action taken under any
Government Order or law repealed by sub-section (1) shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the
corresponding provisions of this Act and shall continue to be in force accordingly unless and until superseded by
anything done or any action taken under this Act.
29.
(I) The Uttar Pradesh Recovery of Damages to Public U. P. Ordinance and Private Property Ordinance, 2020 is hereby
repealed. no. 2 of 2020
(2)
Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken under the provisions of the principal Act as amended by
the Ordinance referred to in sub-section (1) shall be deemed to have been done taken under the corresponding
provisions of the principal Act as amended by this Act as if the provisions of this Act were in force at all material times.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 7/7