
----- PAGE 1 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/8357751/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
38
]
Greater Bengaluru City Corporation - Act
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
BENGALURU
India
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
Act 53 of 2020
Published in Karnataka Gazette Extra-ordinary on 21 December 2020
Commenced on 21 December 2020
[This is the version of this document from 21 December 2020.]
DEPARTMENT OF PARLIAMENTARY AFFAIRS AND LEGISLATION SECRETARIAT NOTIFICATION
NO: DPAL 20 SHASANA 2020, BENGALURU, DATED:21.12.2020
Ordered that the translation of ? ?? ? ??? ? ??, 2020 (2020? ? ?? ? ?? 53) in English language, be published as
authoritative text as required by clause (3) of Article 348 of the Constitution of India in the Karnataka Gazette for general
information.
The following translation of ? ?? ? ??? ? ??, (2020? ? ?? ? ?? 53) in English language, is published in the Official
Gazette under the authority of the Governor of Karnataka under clause (3) of Article 348 of the Constitution of India
KARNATAKA ACT NO. 53 OF 2020
(First published in the Karnataka Gazette Extra-ordinary on the 21st day of December, 2020)
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
(Received the assent of the Governor on the 19th day of December, 2020)
An Act to provide for an independent legislation for the purposes of improving decentralization, integration of public
Page 1/159
----- PAGE 2 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
participation at various levels of municipal governance and to ensure efficient decision making by the Bruhat Bengaluru
Mahanagara Palike.
Whereas, the City of Bengaluru is a major centre of economic activity with a large and growing population with seven
hundred and fourteen square kilometers of area under the jurisdiction of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike.
Whereas, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike was established and governed under the provisions of the
Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act,
(Karnataka Act 14 of 1977).
Whereas, the provisions of the Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act, 1976 (Karnataka Act 14 of 1977) are inadequate
in administrative and structural matters to govern Bengaluru as it provides for limited flexibility and is a common
legislation catering to nine smaller Municipal Corporations in the State of Karnataka.
Be it enacted by the Karnataka State Legislature in the seventy first year of the Republic of India, as follows:-
Chapter I
PRELIMINARY
1.
Short title and commencement.-
(1)
This Act may be called the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Act, 2020.
(2)
The provisions of the Act shall come into force on such date as the State
2.
Government may, by notification, appoint on this behalf.
Definitions.-In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,-
(1)
?Annual Financial Statement? means the statement published by the Corporation under section 208;
(2)
?Area Sabha? means in relation to an Area, a body of all the persons who are registered as voters in the electoral rolls
pertaining to any polling station of that Area;
(3)
?Area? means an area determined in the manner specified in section 4 and
(4)
?Association? means an association of body of persons, a trust, society, association or organization registered under
Karnataka Societies Registration Act, 1960
(Karnataka Act 17 of 1960) or not;
(5)
? Backward classes? means such class or classes of citizens as may be classified and notified by the Government from
time to time for the purposes of reservation of seats in the Corporation;
(6)
?Bio-medical waste" means any waste generated during diagnosis, treatment, immunization or any health services of
human beings or animals or in research activities pertaining thereto;
(7)
?building? includes,-
(a)
a house, out-house, stable, privy, shed, hut, wall, verandah, fixed platform, plinth, door step and any other structure
including telecommunication tower or Advertisement structure, whatever name called whether of masonry, bricks, wood,
mud, metal or any other material whatsoever;
(b)
a structure on wheels simply resting in the ground without foundations;
(c)
a ship, vessel, boat, tent, and any other structure used for human habitation or used for keeping or storing any article or
goods;
(8)
Page 2/159
----- PAGE 3 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
?Bye-law? means a bye-law framed by the Corporation under this Act;
(9)
?casual vacancy? means a vacancy occurring otherwise than by efflux of time in the office of a councillor or in any other
elective office and ?casual election?
means an election held to fill a casual vacancy;
(10)
?Chairperson? means such person who shall be the head of the committee or commission or other such bodies
provided for under this Act;
(11)
?Chief Commissioner? means the Chief Commissioner appointed under section 63 and includes a person appointed to
act as the Chief Commissioner under section 71 ;
(12)
?Civil Society? means any person, association of persons, non-governmental organisation established, constituted or
registered under any law for the time being in force and working for social welfare, and shall include any community
based organisation, professional institution, civic, health, educational, social or cultural body and such other association
or body as the Corporation may decide;
(13)
?Completion Certificate? means a certificate granted by the Corporation upon completion of construction of a building in
accordance with the provisions of this Act;
(14)
?Complimentary Connection? means and includes providing a connection for cable television or connection to direct to
home service free of any payment or at a reduced rate;
(15)
?Complimentary ticket? means and includes any ticket which provides an entry into a ticket-based entertainment free of
any payment or at a reduced rate;
(16)
?Comprehensive Debt Limitation Policy? means the policy prepared by the Corporation to guide any decision taken by it
while raising debt;
(17)
?Corporation? means the Bruhath Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike established in accordance with the provisions of this
Act;
(18)
?Corporation Administrator? means any officer appointed by the State Government to exercise the powers and perform
the functions and discharge duties conferred or imposed on the corporation by or under this Act;
(19)
?Corporation Fund? means the consolidated fund of the Corporation subject to the control of the Corporation in
accordance with such conditions prescribed under this Act;
(20)
?Dangerous diseases? means any epidemic, endemic, or infectious disease notified as a dangerous disease by the
Government under this Act;
(21)
?Election? means an election to fill any vacancy in the office of a Councillor;
(22)
?Entertainment? means and includes any amusement event or provision of service which involves a performance,
presentation, production or staging of any act and for the viewing of which any person or body of persons may be
required to purchase a ticket to enter such an event or purchase a connection to view such a service;
(23)
?Essential services? means services in which any Corporation officer, servant, or other person is employed by or on
behalf of the corporation and which are specified in the rules;
(24)
?factory? means a factory as defined in the occupational safety, health and working condition code 2020 (Central Act 37
Page 3/159
----- PAGE 4 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
of 2020);
(25)
?filth? includes sewage, dung, dirt, swill, putrid and putrefying substances and all offensive matter;
(26)
?Government? means the Government of Karnataka;
(27)
?land? includes land which is being built upon or is built upon or covered with water, benefits to arise out of land, things
attached to the earth or permanently fastened to anything attached to the earth and rights created by law over any
street;
(28)
?lay-out? means a lay-out formed by an individual or body of persons, whether incorporated or not;
(29)
?local authority? means a Corporation, a municipal council, Town panchayat, development authority, city improvement
board, town improvement board, zilla panchayat, taluk panchayat and grama panchayat or any local self Government
constituted under any law for the time being in force;
(30)
?Market? includes any place, by whatever name called, where persons assemble for the sale of meat, fish, fruit,
vegetables, livestock, or any other article of food of a perishable nature, or any other article for which there is a
collection of shops or warehouses or stalls, declared and licensed by the Corporation as a market;
(31)
?Medium term fiscal plan? means the fiscal plan prepared by the Corporation for a period of five years;
(32)
?Non ticket-based entertainment? means and includes any entertainment which does not require the purchase of a
ticket to enter the place of non-ticket-based entertainment;-
(33)
?Nuisance? shall include any act, omission, place or thing, which causes or is likely to cause injury, danger, annoyance,
or offence to the sense of sight, smell or hearing, disturbance to rest or sleep, or which is or may be dangerous to life, or
injurious to health or property;
(34)
?Occupier? includes any person who, for the time being, is paying or is liable to pay to the owner the rent or any portion
of the rent of the land or building in respect of which such rent is paid or payable, an owner in occupation or otherwise
using the building or land, a rent-free tenant, licensee occupying any land or building, any person who is liable to pay the
owner damages for the use or occupation of any land or building;
(35)
?Owner" includes a person who, for the time being, is receiving or is entitled to receive the amount of lease or the rent of
any land or building whether on her own account or as an agent, trustee, guardian or receiver for any other person or
who should so receive the amount of lease or the rent or be entitled to receive it if the land or building or part thereof
were let to a lessee or a tenant on lease or rent;
(36)
"population" means the population as ascertained at the last preceding census of which relevant figures have been
published;
(37)
?Political Party? means a political party registered under section 29A of the Representation of the People Act, 1951
(Central Act 43 of 1951);
(38)
?Polling stations'' means those stations set up by the State Election Commission to enable those persons on the
electoral roll to cast their vote;
(39)
"Prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this Act;
(40)
?Presiding Officer? means such an officer appointed by the State Election Commission to preside over one or more
Page 4/159
----- PAGE 5 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
polling stations;
(41)
?Property tax? means the tax levied by the Corporation on buildings or vacant lands or both;
(42)
?Resident welfare association? means a voluntary association of residents registered under any law in force;
(43)
?regulation? means a regulation framed under this Act;
(44)
?rubbish? includes dust, ashes, broken bricks, mortar, broken glass, garden or stable refuse and refuse of any kind
which is not offensive matter or sewage;
(45)
?Rules? means the rules made under this Act;
(46)
?Schedule? means a Schedule appended to this Act;
(47)
?street alignment? means a line dividing the land comprised in and forming Part of - a street from the adjoining land;
(48)
?Scheduled Castes? means those castes, races or tribes or parts of or groups within castes, races or tribes notified
under Article 341 of the Constitution of India;
(49)
?Scheduled Tribes? means those tribes or tribal communities on parts of or groups within castes, races, tribes or tribal
communities notified under Article 342 of the Constitution of India;
(50)
?Self-help group? means a group of twenty or more people from a homogeneous class who come together for
addressing their common problems;
(51)
?Sinking fund? means a fund formed by periodically setting aside money for the gradual repayment of a debt or
replacement of a wasting asset;
(52)
?Specified? means the Bye laws made by the Corporation under this Act;
(53)
?Slum level federation? means an association of twenty or more self-help groups formed by residents of urban slum
areas;
(54)
?Solid Waste Management? means and includes collection, segregation, storage, transportation, processing and
disposal of municipal solid waste;
(55)
?Standing Committee? means the Standing Committee referred to under section 80;
(56)
"State Election Commission" means the State Election Commission referred to in Article 243-K of the Constitution of
India;
(57)
?Street? means a public street or a private street, and includes any highway and any causeway, bridge, road, lane,
foot-way, subway or riding path or passage over which the public have a right of passage or access or have passed and
had access uninterruptedly for a period of twenty years; and, when there is a foot-way as well as a carriage way in any
street, the said term includes both;
(58)
?Ticket based entertainment? means and includes any entertainment, which requires the purchase of a ticket to enter
the place of ticket based entertainment;
(59)
?trade effluent? means any liquid either with or without particles of matter in suspension therein which is wholly or in part
Page 5/159
----- PAGE 6 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
produced in the course of any trade or industry carried on at the trade premises, and in relation to any trade premises
means any such liquid as aforesaid which is so produced in the course of any trade or industry carried on at those
premises, but does not include domestic sewage;
(60)
?trade premises? means any premises used or intended to be used for carrying on any trade or industry;
(61)
?trade refuse? means the refuse of any trade or industry;
(62)
?Tribunal? means the Karnataka Appellate Tribunal;
(63)
"Vacant land" means, land not built upon and does not include land appurtenant to a building;
(64)
?Ward Committee? means the ward committee established under section 143. ;
(65)
?Ward development plan? means the development plan prepared by the Ward Committee for the allotment of budget to
it by the Corporation;
(66)
?Ward Sabha? means a Ward Sabha referred to under section 86;
(67)
?Wards? means such areas within the zones of the Corporation determined by the Government under section 7;
(68)
?Zonal Commissioner? means the Zonal Commissioner referred to under section 72; and
(69)
?Zones of the Corporation? means such areas within the Corporation as may be notified by the Government under
section 12.
Chapter II
CORPORATION AUTHORITIES
3. Corporation Authorities.-The following shall be the Authorities of the Corporation who shall carry out the provisions of
the Act, namely:-
(a)
the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP)
(b)
the Mayor
(c)
the Chief Commissioner
(d)
the Zonal Commissioner
(e)
the Zonal Committees
(f)
the Standing Committees
(g)
the Ward Committees
(h)
Area Sabhas
Chapter III
CONSTITUTION OF THE CORPORATION
4. Establishment of Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike.- (1) As soon as may be, after the commencement of this Act,
there shall be established for the purposes of this Act, a Corporation to be called Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike.
(2)
The Governor having regard to,-
Page 6/159
----- PAGE 7 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
(a)
population of any area within the reasonable proximity of Bengaluru;
(b)
the density of population of such area;
(c)
the revenue generated by existing local administration of such area;
(d)
the percentage of employment in non-agricultural activities in such area;
(e)
the economic importance of such area;
(f)
special development plan, trade, transport; and
(g)
such other factors as may be prescribed or required to be considered from time to time include such areas to be within
or exclude such areas from the jurisdiction of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike by notification in the Official
Gazette.
(3)
No such notification shall be issued unless a draft thereof is,-
(a)
published in the official Gazette for the information of all persons likely to be affected thereby inviting objections and
suggestions within one month from the date of publication; and (b) referred to the corporation for expressing its views
thereon within the period specified in clause (a).
(4)
Save as otherwise provided in this Act or any other law for the time being in force, when a local area is excluded from
the larger urban area.
(i)
the rights and liabilities of the corporation in such area shall vest in Government; and
(ii)
Government shall, after consulting the corporation, determine what portion of the corporation fund and other property of
the corporation shall vest in Government for the benefit of the inhabitants of such local area and how the liabilities of the
corporation shall be apportioned between the corporation and Government.
(5)
When a local area is included in the larger urban area , the provisions of this Act and all taxes, notifications, rules,
bye-laws, orders, directions and powers, levied, issued, made or conferred under this Act or any other law applicable to
the larger urban area shall apply to the said area from the date of inclusion of such area within the larger urban area.
(6)
The Corporation shall be a body corporate with the name aforesaid having perpetual succession and a common seal
with power, subject to theprovisions of this Act, to acquire, hold and dispose of property and may by the said name sue
and be sued.
Erection and maintenance of boundary marks.- It shall be the duty of the corporation to cause at its own cost to be
erected or set up andthereafter maintain at its own cost substantial boundary marks of such description and in such
position as shall be approved by the Deputy Commissioner of the revenue district having jurisdiction, defining the limits
or  the altered limits, as the case may be, of the city which is subject to its authority Duration of the Corporation.-The
Corporation, shall continue for five years from the date appointed for its first meeting unless dissolved earlier.
Delimitation of Wards.- (1)For the purposes of election of councilors, Bengaluru shall be divided into wards on the
recommendation of the delimitation commission in such manner that,-
(a)
the population of each of the wards shall, as far as practicable, be the same throughout Bengaluru.;
(b)
Wards shall be divided within the constituency of a member of legislative assembly and no wards shall be spread over to
constituencies.
Page 7/159
----- PAGE 8 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
Explanation:- For the purpose of this section population means the population of the city ascertained by preceding
census of which relevant figures have been published.
(2)
The Government shall constitute a delimitation commission consisting of such number of persons as may be prescribed
to recommend to the Government regarding the manner of division of wards.
(3)
The Government shall by order determine,-
(a)
the wards into which the Corporation shall, for the purpose of its elections, be divided in to not less than two hundred
and twenty fiveb ut not more than two hundred and fifty wards;
(b)
the extent of each ward; and
(c)
the number of seats so reserved for Scheduled Castes and
d Tribes shall bear as nearly as may be, the same proportion to
the total number of seats to be filled by direct election in the
corporation as the population of the Scheduled Castes in the city or of
the Scheduled Tribes in the city bears to the total population of the city:
Provided that the number of seats so reserved for the Backward Classes
under this sub-section shall be so determined, that the total number of seats
reserved for the Scheduled Castes and Schedule Tribes under sub-section(2) and
the Backward Classes under this sub-section shall not exceed one third of the
145.
total number of seats in the Corporation.
(4)
Not more than fifty percent of the seats reserved for each category of
persons belonging to Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Backward Classes
and those of the non-reserved seats to be filled by direct election in a corporation
shall be reserved for women:
Provided that, the seats reserved in sub-sections (3) and (4) shall be allotted
by rotation to different wards in the city.
(5)
No delimitation of wards or change of wards for the purpose of
reservation shall be made in the Corporation after its constitution except for the
purpose of general election to that Corporation and no such delimitation or
8.
change of wards shall, in any manner, affect the existing Corporation.
Constitution of the Corporation.-(1) The Corporation shall consist
of,-
(a)
such number of elected Councilors representing each ward determined
by the Government under sub-section (3) of section 7.
(b)
the Government shall nominate such members from the residents of
the city and such members shall not exceed ten percent of the Councillors:-
(i)
who are persons having special knowledge and experience in municipal
administration or matters relating to health, town planning or education; or
(ii)
who are social workers;
Provided that, the persons referred to in clause (b) shall not have right to vote in
Page 8/159
----- PAGE 9 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
the meetings of the Corporation.
(c)
The Members of the House of people whose constituencies are within
the area of the Corporation and the Members of the Council of States who are
registered as voters in the Corporation.
(d)
The Members of Legislative Assembly whose constituencies are within
the area of the Corporation and the Members of Legislative Council who are
registered as voters in the Corporation.
(2)
Seats shall be reserved in a corporation,-
(a)
for the Scheduled Castes; and
(b)
for the Scheduled Tribes:
and the number of seats so reserved shall bear as nearly as may be, the
same proportion to the total number of seats to be filled by direct election in the
corporation as the population of the Scheduled Castes in the city or of the
d Tribes in the city bears to the total population of the city.
(3) Such number of seats which shall as nearly as may be, one third of the
total number of seats to be filled by direct election in a corporation shall be
reserved for persons belonging to the Backward Classes:
Provided that, the number of seats so reserved for the Backward Classes
under this sub-section shall be so determined, that the total number of seats
reserved for the Scheduled Castes and Schedule Tribes under sub-section(3) and
the backward classes under this sub-section shall not exceed one third of the
total number of seats in the Corporation.
Provided further that, out of the seats reserved under this sub-section,
eighty percent of the total number of such seats shall be reserved for the persons
falling under category "A" and the remaining twenty percent of the seats shall be
reserved for the persons falling under category "B":
Provided also that, if no person falling under category "A" is available, the
seats reserved for that category shall also be filled by the persons falling under
146.
category "B" and vice-versa:
(4)
Not more than fifty percent of the seats reserved for each category of
persons belonging to the Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled Tribes and backward
classes and those of the non-reserved seats to be filled by direct election in a
corporation shall be reserved for women:
Provided that, the seats reserved in this sub-section shall be allotted by
rotation to different wards in a city.
(5)
The Councilors referred to in of sub-section (1) shall be elected in the
manner provided in this Act.
(6)
Nothing contained in sub-sections (2), (3) and (4) shall be deemed to
prevent the members of the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, backward
classes or women from standing for election to the non-reserved seats.
(7)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, where two thirds of the
Page 9/159
----- PAGE 10 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
total number of Councillors required to be elected have been elected, the
9.
Corporation shall be deemed to have been duly constituted under this Act.
Oath of allegiance to be taken by councilors.- (1) Notwithstanding
anything contained in the Oaths Act, 1969 (Central Act 44 of 1969) every person
who is elected to be a councillor shall, before taking his seat, make at a meeting
of the corporation, an oath or affirmation of his allegiance to the Constitution in
the following form namely:-
"I.A.B., having been elected a councilor of this corporation do swear in the name of
God / solemnly affirm that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of
India, and that I will faithfully discharge the duty upon which I am about to enter".
(2)
Any person who having been elected to be a councilor fails to make, within
three months of the date on which his term of office commences or at one of the first
three meetings held after the said date, whichever is later the oath or affirmation laid
down in subsection (1) shall cease to hold his office and his seat shall be deemed to have
become vacant.
(3)
Any person who has been elected to be a councillor shall not take his seat at a
meeting of the corporation or do any act as such councillor unless he has made the oath
or affirmation as laid down in sub-section (1).
(4)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (3), a Mayor or Deputy
Mayor or the chairman or a member of a standing-committee, who has not made the
oath or affirmation as a councillor shall not be entitled to act as such Mayor, Deputy
10.
Mayor, Chairman or member.
Declaration of assets etc.- Every councillor referred to in sub-section (1) of
section 8 shall, not later than one month after the commencement of his term of office
and in the same month of each succeeding year, file with the Mayor a declaration of all
assets owned by him and any member of his family. Such declaration shall form part of
11.
the corporation records.
Term of office of Councilors.- (1) Save as otherwise provided in this Act,
the term of office of councillors,-
(i)
directly elected at a general election shall be five years;
(ii)
nominated by the Government under clause (b) of sub-section
(1)
of section 8 shall, subject to the pleasure of the Government, be five years.
(2)
The term of office of the Councilors shall commence on the date
appointed for the first meeting of the corporation.
(3)
If any casual vacancy occurs it shall be filled, as soon as may be, by
147.
the election of a person thereto. The person so elected shall hold office only so
long as the person in whose place he is elected would have held had the vacancy
not occurred:
Provided that, no election to fill a casual vacancy shall be held if the
Page 10/159
----- PAGE 11 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
vacancy occurs within six months before the expiry by efflux of time of the term of
12.
office of the councillors.
Division of the Corporation into Zones.- (1) The Government shall upon
consultation with the Corporation, issue a notification dividing its area into various
Zones.
(2)
The Government shall establish a zonal demarcation commission with
representation from the Corporation, Government and such eminent members of
the public to recommend to the Government, as per such terms of reference, the
demarcation of zones and the basis thereof.
(3)
Prior to the publication of any notification in the official gazette under
this Section, the Corporation shall publish the draft of such notification which
shall seek the opinion of the public for a period of thirty days from the date of
such notification.
(4)
The number of zones created by the Corporation shall not exceed
fifteen.
Chapter IV
ELECTIONS
13. Election to the Corporation.-(1) A general election shall be held for the
purpose of constitution of a new Corporation before the expiry of the duration of the
existing Corporation or on dissolution.
(2)
The superintendence and the conduct of general election and for casual
vacancy of Councilors shall be vested in the State Election Commission.
(3)
The officer designated by the State Election Commission shall maintain
a list of voters for each ward of such municipal area.
(4)
The date of such an election shall be fixed by the State Election
14.
Commission in consultation with the Government.
Electoral rolls.- (1) For every ward, there shall be an electoral roll which
shall be prepared, revised, modified, updated and published in accordance with the
provisions of this Act and under the superintendence, direction and control of State
Election Commission.
(2)
Only one Councillor shall be elected for each ward and election shall be
by secret ballot.
(3)
A person whose name has been included in the electoral roll, as
prepared by the State Election Commission of a ward shall be entitled to vote in
15.
an election to that ward.
Electoral Registration Officer.-(1)An Electoral Registration Officer shall
prepare and renew the voters list with respect to each ward of a Corporation, in such
manner as may be prescribed and he shall be an officer of the Government or a local
authority designated or nominated as such by the State Election Commission in
consultation with the Government.
Page 11/159
----- PAGE 12 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
(2)
The Electoral Registration Officer may, subject to such restriction as
may be prescribed, depute competent teachers including those of aided schools or
Government employees or employees of local authorities, to prepare and revise
148.
the voters list of the wards.
(3)
The State Election Commission may designate one or more persons as
Assistant Electoral Registration Officers to assist the Electoral Registration Officer
in the discharge of his functions.
(4)
Each Assistant Electoral Registration Officer shall, subject to the
control of the Electoral Registration Officer, be competent to discharge all or any
16.
of the functions of the Electoral Registration Officer.
Provision of polling stations.-The District Election Officer shall, with the
previous approval of the State Election Commission, provide sufficient number of polling
stations for every Ward within the area of his jurisdiction, and shall publish in such
manner as the State Election Commission may direct, a list showing the polling stations
so provided and the polling areas or group of voters for which they have respectively been
17.
provided.
Appointment of Presiding Officers for polling stations.-(1) The State
Election Commission shall appoint a Presiding Officer for each polling station and such
Polling Officer or officers as it thinks necessary:
Provided that, if a Polling Officer is absent from the polling station, the
Presiding Officer may appoint any person who is present at the polling station
other than a person who has been employed by or on behalf of, or has been
otherwise working for, a candidate in or in relation to the election, to be the
Presiding Officer during the absence of the former officer, and inform the election
commission accordingly.
(2)
A Polling Officer shall, if so, directed by the Presiding Officer, perform
all or any of the functions of a Presiding Officer under this Act or any rules or
18.
orders made thereunder.
Qualifications for being a Councilor.-Every person whose name is in the
electoral roll for any of the wards of the Corporation area shall, unless disqualified under
this Act or any other law for the time being in force, shall be qualified to be elected at the
election for that ward or any other ward of the Corporation area and every person whose
name is not in such list shall not be qualified to be elected, at the election for any ward of
19.
the Corporation area.
Disqualifications of being a Councillor.- (1) A person shall be disqualified
in the following circumstances for being chosen as a Councillor if he,-
(a)
has been sentenced by a criminal court to imprisonment for an
offence punishable with imprisonment for a term not less than two years:
Provided that,-
(i)
the offence is one which involves moral turpitude and
Page 12/159
----- PAGE 13 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
(ii)
such sentence has not been reversed or quashed or the offence not
pardoned; or
(b)
is so disqualified under any provision of the Constitution or by or
under any law for the time being in force relating to elections to the State
Legislative Assembly; or
(c)
if he holds any office of profit under the Government of India or the
Government of any State specified in the first schedule to the Constitution of
India, or under any local or other authority subject to the control of any of the
said Governments other than such offices as are declared by rules made under
this Act not to disqualify the holder; or
(d)
if he has been dismissed from service under a local authority or from
Government service; or
(e)
if, having been a legal practitioner, he has been dismissed or
suspended from practice by order of a competent authority, the disqualification in
149.
the latter case being operative during the period of such suspension; or
(f)
if is he is of unsound mind and stands so declared by a competent
court; or
(g)
if he is an un-discharged insolvent; or
(h)
if he is not a citizen of India or has voluntarily acquired the
citizenship of a foreign State; or
(i)
if he is so disqualified by any law for the time being in force for the
purposes of election to the State Legislature:
Provided that, no person shall be disqualified on the ground that he is less
than twenty five years if he has attained the age of twenty one years.
(j)
If he has, directly or indirectly, by himself or his partner, any share
or interest in any work done by order of the Corporation, or in any contract or
employment with or under, or by or on behalf of the Corporation.
(k)
if he has in proceedings questioning the validity or regularity of an
election been found to have been guilty of,-
(i)
any corrupt practice, or
(ii)
any offence punishable under section 171E or section 171F of the
Indian Penal Code 1860, or any offences pertaining to election unless
a period of six years has elapsed since the date of the finding or the
disqualification has been removed by order by the Government:
(l)
If he fails to file Accounts of election expenses intime.
(2)
Page 13/159
----- PAGE 14 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
If any councillor during the term for which he has been elected,-
(a)
becomes subject to any disqualification specified in sub-section (1),
or
(b)
votes or takes part as a councillor in the discussions of any matter,-
(i)
in which he has conflict of interest; or
(ii)
in which he is engaged at the time in any proceeding against
the Corporation; or
(c)
absents himself from the meetings of the Corporation during three
consecutive months except with the leave of the Corporation:
Provided that, no such leave shall be granted in case of absence from the
meetings of the Corporation during a period exceeding six consecutive months:
Provided further that, when an application is made by a councillor to the
Corporation for leave to absent himself and the corporation fails to inform the
applicant of its decision on the application within a period of seven days from the
date of the application, the leave applied for shall be deemed to have been granted
by the Corporation. The Chief Commissioner may, either suomotu or on a report
made to him, after such enquiry as he deems fit, by order, decide, whether the
seat of the person concerned has become vacant or not. As far as may be, such
order shall be made within seven days from the date of receipt of the report or
where action is taken suomotu, within thirty days from the initiation thereof.
(3)
Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Chief Commissioner
under sub-section (2) may, within a period of thirty days from the date of such
decision, appeal to the Government and the orders passed by the Government on
such appeal shall be final:
Provided that, no order shall be passed under sub-sections (2) and (3)
against any councillor without giving him a reasonable opportunity of being
20.
heard.
Equality of votes.-If there is equality of votes between two or more
candidates, the officer appointed on behalf of the state election commission shall decide
150.
by drawing lots which candidate shall be deemed to have been elected.
21. Publication of results.- The names of persons elected and nominated as
councillors, Mayor or Deputy Mayor of the Corporation shall be published in the Official
22.
Gazette.
Election Petition.-(1) No election of a councillor shall be called in question
except by an election petition presented for adjudication to the District Court having
jurisdiction, within thirty days from the date of the publication of the result of election
under section 21.
(2)
An election petition may be presented on one or more of the grounds
specified in section 23,-
(a)
by any candidate at such election; or
Page 14/159
----- PAGE 15 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
(b)
by any voter of the ward concerned
(3)
Every election petition shall be tried as expeditiously as possible and
endeavour shall be made to conclude the trial within six months from the date of
presentation of the election petition under sub-section (1):
Provided that, where the petitioner alleges any corrupt practice, the
petition shall also be accompanied by an affidavit in the prescribed form in
23.
support of the allegation of such corrupt practice and the particulars thereof.
Grounds for declaring elections to be void.-(1) The court shall declare the
election of the returned candidate to be void, if the court is of opinion, -
(a)
that on the date of his election a returned candidate was not qualified
or was disqualified, to be chosen as a councillor under this Act, or
(b)
that any corrupt practice has been committed by a returned
candidate or his election agent or by any other person with the consent of a
returned candidate or his election agent, or
(c)
that any nomination has been improperly rejected.
(d)
that the result of the election, in so far as it concerns a returned
candidate, has been materially affected,-
(i)
by the improper acceptance of any nomination; or
(ii)
by any corrupt practice committed in the interests of the
returned candidate by an agent other than his election agent; or
(iii)
by the improper reception, refusal or rejection of any vote or
the reception of any vote which is void; or
(iv)
by any non-compliance with the provisions of this Act or of any
rules or orders made thereunder, the court shall declare the election of
the returned candidate to be void.
(2)
If in the opinion of the court, a returned candidate has been guilty,
by a person other than his election agent, of any corrupt practice, but the court is
satisfied,-
(a)
that no such corrupt practice was committed at the election by
the candidate or his election agent and every such corrupt practice was
committed contrary to the orders and without the consent of the candidate
or his election agent
(b)
that the candidate and his election agent took all reasonable
means for preventing the commission of corrupt practices at the election;
and
(c)
that in all other respects the election was free from any corrupt
Page 15/159
----- PAGE 16 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
practice on the part of the candidate or any of his agents, then the court
24.
may decide that the election of the returned candidate is not void.
Procedure to be followed by the court.- The procedure provided in the
Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, in regard to suits shall be followed by the court as far as
151.
it can be made applicable, in the trial and disposal of an election petition under this Act.
25. Decision of the Court.- (1) At the conclusion of the trial of an election
petition, the court shall make an order,-
(a)
dismissing the election petition; or
(b)
declaring the election of all or any of the returned candidates to
be void; or
(c)
declaring the election of all or any of the returned candidates to
be void and the petitioner or any other candidate to have been duly elected.
(2)
If any person who has filed an election petition has, in addition to
calling in question the election of the returned candidate, claimed a declaration
that he himself or any other candidate has been duly elected and the court is of
opinion,-
(a)
that in fact the petitioner or such other candidate received a
majority of the valid votes; or
(b)
that but for the votes obtained by the returned candidate by
corrupt practices the petitioner or such other candidate would have
obtained a majority of the valid votes, the court shall, after declaring the
election of the returned candidate to be void, declare the petitioner or such
other candidate as the case may be, to have been duly elected.
(3)
If during the trial of an election petition it appears that there is an
equality of votes between any candidates at the election and that the addition of a
vote would entitle any of those candidates to be declared elected, then, the court
shall decide between them by lot and proceed as if the one on whom the lot falls
26.
had received an additional vote.
Appeal.-An appeal shall lie to the High Court from an order of the District
Court under section 25 within a period of thirty days from the date of the order of the
court excluding the time required for obtaining a copy of the order:
Provided that, the High Court may entertain an appeal after the expiry of
the said period of thirty days if it is satisfied that the appellant had sufficient
27.
cause for not preferring the appeal within the said period.
Corrupt Practices.-The following shall be deemed to be corrupt practices
for the purposes of this Act, namely:-
(1)
'bribery' as defined in clause (1) of section 123 of the Representation
of the Peoples Act, 1951 (Central Act 43 of 1951) for the time being in force;
(2)
Page 16/159
----- PAGE 17 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
'under influence' as defined in clause (2) of the said section for the
time being in force;
(3)
the appeal by a candidate or his agent or by any other person with
the consent of a candidate or his election agent to vote or refrain from voting for
any person on the ground of his religion, race, caste, community or language or
the use of, or appeal to religious symbols or the use of or appeal to, national
symbols, such as the national flag or the national emblem, for the furtherance of
the prospects of the election of that candidate or for prejudicially affecting the
election of any candidate;
(4)
the promotion of, or attempt to promote, feelings of enmity or hatred
between different classes of the citizens of India on grounds of religion, race,
caste, community or language, by a candidate or his agent or any other person
with the consent of a candidate or his election agent for the furtherance of the
prospects of the election of that candidate or for prejudicially affecting the
election of any candidate;
(5)
the publication by a candidate or his agent or by any other person
152.
with the consent of a candidate or his election agent of any statement of fact
which is false, and which he either believes to be false or does not believe to be
true, in relation to the personal character or conduct of any candidate, or in
relation to the candidature or withdrawal of any candidate, being a statement
reasonably calculated to prejudice the prospects of that candidate's election;
(6)
the hiring or procuring whether on payment or otherwise of any
vehicle by a candidate or his agent or by any other person with the consent of a
candidate or his election agent for the conveyance of any voter (other than the
candidate himself and the members of his family or his agent) to or from any
polling station provided in accordance with the rules made under this Act:
Provided that the hiring of a vehicle by an elector or by several electors at
their joint cost for the purpose of conveying him or them to and from any such
polling station shall not be deemed to be a corrupt practice under this clause if
the vehicle so hired is a vehicle not propelled by mechanical power:
Provided further that the use of any public transport vehicle or any railway
carriage by any voter at his own cost for the purpose of going to or coming from
any such polling station shall not be deemed to be a corrupt practice under this
clause.
Explanation.- In this clause, the expression "vehicle" means any vehicle
used or capable of being used for the purpose of road transport, whether
propelled by mechanical power or otherwise and whether used for drawing other
vehicle or otherwise;
(7)
the obtaining or procuring or abetting or attempting to obtain or
procure by a candidate or his agent or, by any other person with the consent of a
candidate or his election agent, any assistance (other than the giving of vote) for
the furtherance of the prospects of that candidate's election, from any person in
the service of the Government or the service of the corporation;
(8)
any other practice which the Government may by rules specify to be
Page 17/159
----- PAGE 18 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
28.
a corrupt practice.
Promoting enmity between classes in connection with election.-Any
person who in connection with an election under this Act promotes or attempts to
promote on grounds of religion, race, caste, community or language, feelings of enmity or
hatred between different classes of the citizens of India shall, on conviction, be punished
29.
with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both.
Prohibition of public meetings two days before preceding the election
day and on the election day.-(1)No person shall convene, hold or attend any public
meeting within any ward within forty eight hours before the date of commencement of
the poll or on the date or dates on which a poll is taken for an election in that ward.
(2)
Any person who contravenes the provisions of sub-section (1) shall,
30.
on conviction, be punished with fine which may extend to Rupees One Lakh.
Disturbances at election meetings.- (1) Any person who at a public
meeting to which this section applies acts, or incites others to act, in a disorderly
manner for the purpose of preventing the transaction of the business for which the
meeting was called shall, on conviction, be punished with fine which may extend to one
lakh rupees.
(2)
This section applies to any public meeting in connection with
corporation elections held in any ward between the date of the issue of a
notification fixing the date of the poll to elect a councillor or councillors and the
date on which the election is held.
(3)
If any police officer reasonably suspects any person of committing an
offence under sub-section (1), he may, if requested so to do by the chairman of the
153.
meeting, require that person to declare to him immediately his name and address and, if
that person refuses or fails so to declare his name and address, or if the police officer
reasonably suspects him of giving a false name or address, the police officer may arrest
31.
him without warrant
Restrictions on the printing of pamphlets, poster and others.-(1) No
person shall print or publish or cause to be printed or published, any election pamphlet
or poster which does not bear on its face the names and addresses of the printer and the
publisher thereof.
(2)
No person shall print or cause to be printed any election pamphlet or
poster unless a declaration as to the identity of the publisher thereof, signed by
him and attested by two persons to whom he is personally known, is delivered by
him to the printer in duplicate.
(3)
Any person who contravenes any of the provisions of sub-section (1)
or subsection (2) shall, on conviction be punished with imprisonment for a term
which may extend to six months or with fine which may extend to one lakh
32.
rupees or with both.
Maintenance of secrecy of voting.- (1) Every officer, employee, agent or
Page 18/159
----- PAGE 19 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
other person who performs any duty in connection with the recording or counting of
votes at an election under this Act shall maintain and aid in maintaining, the secrecy of
the voting and shall not, except for some purpose authorised by or under any law,
communicate to any person any information calculate to violate such secrecy.
(2)
Any person who contravenes the provisions of sub-section (1) shall,
on conviction, be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to
33.
three months or with fine or with both
Prohibition of canvassing in or near polling stations.-(1)No person shall,
on the date or dates on which a poll is taken at any polling station, commit any of the
following acts within the polling station or in any public or private place within a
distance of one hundred meters of the polling station, namely:-
(a)
canvassing for votes;
(b)
soliciting the vote of any voter; or
(c)
persuading any voter not to vote for any particular candidate; or
(d)
persuading any voter not to vote at election; or
(e)
exhibiting any notice or sign (other than an official notice) relating to
the election
(2)
Any person who contravenes the provisions of sub-section (1) shall,
on conviction, be punished with fine which may extend to one lakh rupees
(3)
An offence punishable under this section shall be cognizable.
34. Penalty for disorderly conduct in or near polling stations.-(1)No person
shall, on the date or dates on which a poll is taken at any polling station,-
(a)
use or operate within or at the entrance of the polling station or
in any public or private place in the neighbourhood thereof, any apparatus
for amplifying or reproducing the human voice, such as a megaphone or a
loudspeaker; or
(b)
shout or otherwise act in a disorderly manner, within or at the
entrance of the polling station or in any public or private place in the
neighbourhood thereof, so as to cause annoyance to any person visiting the
polling station for the poll, or so as to interfere with the work of the officers
and other person on duty at the polling station.
(2)
Any person who contravenes or willfully aids or abets the
154.
contravention of the provisions of sub-section (1) shall, on conviction, be
punished with imprisonment for a term which any extend to three months, or
with fine, or with both.
(3)
If the presiding officer of a polling station has reason to believe that
any person is committing or has committed an offence punishable under this
Page 19/159
----- PAGE 20 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
section, he may direct any police officer to arrest such person and thereupon the
police officer shall arrest him. Any police officer may make such steps and use
such force as may be reasonably necessary for preventing any contravention of
the provisions of sub-section (1), and may seize any apparatus used for such
35.
contravention.
Penalty for illegal hiring or procuring of conveyances at elections.- If
any person is guilty of any such corrupt practice as is specified in sub-section (6) of
section 27 at or in connection with an election he shall, on conviction, be punished with
36.
fine which may extend to two hundred and fifty rupees.
Breaches of official duty in connection with elections.- (1) If any
person to whom this section applies is, without reasonable cause, guilty of any act or
omission in breach of his official duty, he shall, on conviction, be punished with fine
which may extend to five hundred rupees.
(2)
No suit or other legal proceedings shall lie against any such person
for damages in respect of any such act or omission as aforesaid.
(3)
The persons to whom this section applies are the returning officer,
assistant returning officers, presiding officers, polling officers and any other
person appointed to perform any duty in connection with the receipt of
nominations or withdrawal of candidature, or the recording or counting of votes
at an election; and the expression "official duty" shall, for the purpose of this
section, be construed accordingly, but shall not include duties imposed
37.
otherwise than by or under this Act in connection with such election.
Returning Officer, Presiding Officer, etc. deemed to be on deputation
to State Election Commission.- Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or any
other law for the time being in force, the returning officer, assistant returning officer,
presiding officer, polling officer and any other officer appointed by or under this Act and
any police officer designated for the time being by the Government, for the conduct of any
election of Councillors under this Act shall be deemed to be on deputation to the State
Election Commission for the period commencing on and from the date of notification
calling for such election and ending with the date of declaration of the results of such
election and accordingly, such officer shall, during that period, be subject to the control,
38.
superintendence and discipline of the State Election Commission.
Penalty for Government servant for acting as election agent, polling
agent or counting agent.- If any person in the service of the Government acts as an
election agent or a polling agent or a counting agent of a candidate at an election, he
shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three months, or
39.
with fine or with both.
Removal of electronic voting machine from polling station to be an
offence.- (1) Any person who at any election fraudulently takes or attempts to take a
electronic voting machine out of a polling station or willfully aids or abets the doing of
any such act shall, on conviction, be punished with imprisonment for a term which may
extend to one year, or with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees, or with both.
(2)
If the presiding officer of a polling station has reason to believe that
Page 20/159
----- PAGE 21 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
any person is committing or has committed an offence punishable under sub-
section (1), such officer may, before such person leaves the polling station, arrest
or direct a police officer to arrest such person and may search such person or
155.
cause him to be searched by a police officer:
Provided that, when it is necessary to cause a women to be searched, the
search shall be made by another woman with strict regard to decency.
(3)
Any electronic voting machine found upon the person arrested on
search shall be made over for safe custody to a police officer by the presiding
officer, or when the search is made by a police officer, shall be kept by such
officer in safe custody.
(4)
An offence punishable under sub-section (1) shall be cognizable.
Explanation: In this Chapter, any reference to electronic voting machine shall
also be construed as reference to ballot paper/ballot box wherever the State
40.
Election Commission conducts election through ballot paper/ballot box.
Other offences and penalties therefor.- (1) A person shall be guilty of an
electoral offence if at any election, he,-
(a)
fraudulently defaces or fraudulently destroys any nomination paper;
or
(b)
fraudulently defaces, destroys or removes any list, notice or other
document, affixed by or under the authority of a returning officer; or
(c)
fraudulently defaces or fraudulently destroys any electronic voting
machine or the official mark on any voting machine;
(d)
without due authority supplies any electronic voting machine to any
person or receives any electronic voting machine from any person or is in
possession of any ballot paper; or voting machine
(e)
fraudulently puts into any electronic voting machine anything other
than the control unit, ballot unit and voter verified paper audit trail
(VVPAT)
which he is authorised by law to put in; or
(f)
without due authority destroys, takes, opens or otherwise interferes
with any voting machine then in use for the purposes of the election; or
(g)
fraudulently or without due authority, as the case may be, attempts
to do any of the foregoing acts or willfully aids or abets the doing of any
such acts.
(2)
Any person guilty of an electoral offence under this section shall,-
(a)
if he is the returning officer or an assistant returning officer or a
presiding officer at a polling station or any other officer or person employed
on official duty in connection with the election, on conviction, be punished
Page 21/159
----- PAGE 22 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
with imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine,
or with both;
(b)
if he is any other person, on conviction, be punished with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine, of
with both.
(3)
For the purpose of this section, a person shall be deemed to be on
official duty if his duty is to take part in the conduct of an election or part of an
election including the counting of votes or to be responsible after an election for
the used ballot papers and other documents in connection with such election but
the expression "official duty" shall not include any duty imposed otherwise than
by or under this Act in connection with such election.
(4)
An offence punishable under clause (b) of sub-section (2) shall be
41.
cognizable.
Prosecution regarding certain offences.- No court shall take cognizance
156.
of any offence under section 36 or under clause (a) of sub-section (2) of section 40,
unless there is a complaint made by order of, or under authority from, such officer as
42.
may be prescribed.
Right to vote.- Every person whose name is in the electoral roll shall,
unless disqualified under any law for the time being in force, be qualified to vote at the
43.
election of a councilor for the division to which such roll pertains.
Account of election expenses and maximum thereof.- (1) Every
candidate at an election under this Act shall either by himself or by his election agent
keep a separate and correct account of all expenditure in connection with the election
incurred or authorised by him or by his election agent between the date on which he has
been nominated and the date of declaration of the result thereof, both dates inclusive.
(2)
Any expenditure incurred or authorised in connection with the election of the
candidate under this Act by a political party or by any other association or body or
persons or by any individual (other than the candidate or his election agent) shall not be
deemed to be the expenditure in connection with the election incurred or authorised by
the candidate or by his election agent for the purpose of sub-section (1).
Explanation 1: For the purpose of this sub-section ?political party? shall have the
same meaning as in the Election Symbols (Reservation and Allotment) Order, 1968 for
the time being in force.
Explanation 2: For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that any
expenditure incurred in respect of any arrangement made, facilities provided or any other
act or thing done by any person in the service of the Government or the service of the
corporation in the discharge or purported discharge of his official duty for, or to, or in
relation to, any candidate or his election agent or any other person acting with the
consent of the candidate or his election agent (whether by reason of the office held by the
candidate or for any other reason) shall not be deemed to be expenditure in connection
with the election incurred or authorised by a candidate or by his election agent for the
purpose of this section.
(3)
Page 22/159
----- PAGE 23 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
The account shall contain such particulars as may be prescribed.
(4)
The total of the said expenditure shall not exceed such amount as may be
44.
prescribed.
Lodging of account with the returning officer.- Every contesting
candidate at the election under this Act shall, within thirty days from the date of election
of the returned candidate or, if there are more than one returned candidate at the
election and the dates of the election are different, the later of those two dates lodge with
the Returning Officer appointed at an election under this Act, an account of his election
45.
expenses which shall be a true copy of the account kept by him or by his election agent
Failure to lodge an account of election expenses.- If the State Election
Commission is satisfied that any person,-
(a)
has failed to lodge an account of election expenses within the time and in the
manner required by or under this Act; and
(b)
has no good reason or justification for the failure;
The State Election Commission shall by order published in the official Gazette
declare him to be disqualified and any such person shall be disqualified for a period
46.
of three years from the date of the order.
Voting machines at elections.- Notwithstanding anything contained in
this Act or the rules made there under, the giving or recording of votes by voting
machines may be adopted in such constituency or constituencies as the State Election
Commission may having regard to the circumstances of each case specify.
Explanation.- For the purpose of this section ?voting machine? means any machine
157.
or apparatus whether operated electronically or otherwise used for giving or recording of
votes and any reference to a ballot box or ballot paper in this Act or the rules made
thereunder shall, save as otherwise provided, construed as including a reference to such
47.
voting machine wherever such voting machine is used in any election.
Power of Government to make rules for the purpose of election:-
The Government may prescribe such rules or regulations to regulate all or any of the
matters for the purpose of holding elections of councilors, Mayor, Deputy Mayor and
48.
Chairperson of standing committees.
Prohibition of simultaneous membership.- (1) If a person is elected for
more than one ward, he shall, within three days from the date of the last of such
elections, by notice in writing signed by him and delivered to the Commissioner intimate
the ward from which he chooses to serve and the choice shall be final.
(2)
If the candidate does not make the choice referred to in sub-section (1), the
Commissioner shall determine by lot and notify the ward from which such candidate
shall serve.
(3)
The said person shall be deemed to have been elected only for the seat from the
ward so chosen or notified, as the case may be, and the vacancies thereby arising in
respect of the other seat or seats shall be filled by fresh election.
Page 23/159
----- PAGE 24 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
(4)
If a person who is chosen as a councillor of a ward is or becomes a member of
either house of the Parliament, either house of the State Legislature, or is or becomes a
Municipal Councillor or a Councillor of a Municipal Corporation other than Bruhat
Bengaluru Mahanagar Palike or a Councillor of a Town Panchayat, or a member of a Zilla
Panchayat or Grama Panchayat then at the expiration of a period of fifteen days from the
date of notification of the names of the members under section 21, or as the case may be,
within fifteen days from the date of commencement of term of office of a member of either
house of the Parliament, either house of the State Legislature or a Municipal Councillor
or a Councillor of a Municipal Corporation other than Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagar
Palike or a Councillor of a Town Panchayat or a member of a Zilla Panchayat or Grama
Panchayat, his seat in the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagar Palike shall become vacant
unless he has previously resigned his seat in either house of the Parliament, either house
of the State Legislature, the Municipal Council, the Municipal Corporation other than
Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagar Palike, Town Panchayat, Zilla Panchayat or Grama
49.
Panchayat as the case may be.
Requisitioning of premises, vehicle, etc., for election purpose.- (1) If it
appears to an officer authorised by the State Election Commission for the conduct of
elections to the Corporation under this Act (hereinafter referred to as "the requisitioning
authority") that in connection with an election under this Act,-
(a)
any premises is needed or is likely to be needed for the purpose of being used
as a polling station or for the storage of ballot boxes after a poll has been taken; or
(b)
any vehicle, vessel or animal is needed or is likely to be needed for the purpose
of transport of ballot boxes to or from any polling station or transport of members of
the police force for maintaining order during the conduct of such election, or
transport of any officer or other person for performance of any duties in connection
with such election, the requisitioning authority may by order in writing requisition
such premises, or as the case may be, such vehicle, vessel or animal and may make
such further orders as may appear to it to be necessary or expedient in connection
with the requisitioning:
Provided that, no vehicle, vessel or animal which is being lawfully used by a
158.
candidate or his agent for any purpose connected with the election of such candidate
shall be requisitioned under this sub-section, until the completion of the poll at such
elections.
(2)
The requisitioning shall be effected by an order in writing addressed to the
person deemed by the requisitioning authority to be the owner or person in possession of
the property, and such order shall be served in the manner prescribed on the person to
whom it is addressed.
(3)
Whenever any property is requisitioned under sub-section (1), the period of
such requisitioning shall not extend beyond the period for which such property is
required for any of the purposes mentioned in that sub-section.
(4)
In this section,-
(a)
"premises" means any land, building or part of a building and includes a
Page 24/159
----- PAGE 25 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
hut, shed or other structure or any part thereof;
(b)
"vehicle" means any vehicle used or capable of being used for the purpose
50.
of road transport whether propelled by mechanical power or otherwise.
Payment of compensation.- (1) Whenever in pursuance of section 49, the
requisitioning authority requisitions any premises, the Corporation shall pay to the
persons interested compensation, the amount of which shall be determined by the
requisitioning authority by taking into consideration the following factors that is to say:-
(i)
the rent payable in respect of the premises, or if not rent is so payable, the
rent payable for similar premises in the locality;
(ii)
if in consequence of the requisitioning of premises, the person interested is
compelled to change his residence or place of business, the reasonable
expenses, if any, incidental to such change:
Provided that, when any person interested being aggrieved by the amount
of compensation so determined makes an application to the requisitioning
authority within thirty days of the order under sub-section (1) the matter shall be
referred by the requisitioning authority to the Civil Judge having jurisdiction in
the locality and the amount of compensation to be paid shall be such as the Civil
Judge may determine.
Explanation.- In this sub-section, the expression "person interested" means the
person who was in the actual possession of the premises requisitioned immediately
before the requisitioning or where no person was in such actual possession, the
owner of such premises.
(2)
Whenever in pursuance of section 49, the requisitioning authority
requisitions any vehicle, vessel or animal the Corporation shall pay to the owner
thereof compensation, the amount of which shall be determined by the
requisitioning authority on the basis of fares or rates prevailing in the locality for
the hire of such vehicle, vessel or animal:
Provided that where the owner of such vehicle, vessel or animal being
aggrieved by the amount of compensation so determined, makes an application
within thirty days to the requisitioning authority, the matter shall be referred to
the Civil Judge having jurisdiction in the locality and the amount of
compensation to be paid shall be such as the Civil Judge may determine:
Provided further that where immediately before the requisitioning the
vehicle or vessel was by virtue of a hire purchase agreement in the possession of
a person other than the owner the amount determined under this sub-section as
the total compensation shall be apportioned between that person and the owner
159.
in such manner as they may agree upon and in default of agreement in such
manner as an arbitrator appointed by the requisitioning authority in this behalf
51.
may decide.
Power to obtaining information.- The requisitioning authority may with a
view to requisitioning any property under section 49, or determining the compensation
payable under section 50 by order require any person to furnish to such authority as
may be specified in the order such information in his possession relating to such
52.
Page 25/159
----- PAGE 26 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
property as may be specified.
Power of Entry into and inspection of premises, etc.- (1) Any person
authorised in this behalf by the requisitioning authority may enter into any premises and
inspect such premises and any vehicle, vessel or animal therein for the purpose of
determining whether, and if so in what manner an order under section 49 should be
made in relation to such premises, vehicle, vessel or animal or with a view to securing
compliance with any order made under that section.
(2)
In this section the expression "premises" and "vehicle" have the same
53.
meaning as in section 49.
Eviction from requisitioned premises.- (1) Any person remaining in
possession of any requisitioned premises in contravention of any order made under
section 49, may be summarily evicted from the premises by any officer empowered by the
requisitioning authority in this behalf.
(2)
Any officer so empowered may after giving to any woman not appearing
in public, reasonable warning and facility to withdraw, remove or open any lock
or bolt or break open any door of any building or do any other act necessary for
54.
effecting such eviction.
Release of premises from requisitioning.- (1) When any premises
requisitioned under section 49, are to be released from requisitioning the possession
thereof shall be delivered to the person from whom possession was taken at the time of
the requisition or if there was no such person to the person deemed by the requisitioning
authority to be the owner of such premises and such delivery of possession shall be a full
discharge of the requisiting authority from all liabilities in respect of such delivery but
shall not prejudice any rights in respect of the premises which any other person may be
entitled by due process of law to enforce against the person to whom possession of the
premises is so delivered.
(2)
Where the person to whom possession of any premises requisitioned under
section 49, is to be given under sub-section (1) cannot be found or is not readily
ascertainable or has no agent or any other person empowered to accept delivery on his
behalf, requisitioning authority shall cause a notice declaring that such premises are
released from the requisitioning to be affixed on some conspicuous part of such premises
and on the notice board of the office of the Corporation.
(3)
When a notice is affixed on the notice board as provided in sub-section (2), the
premises specified in such notice shall cease to be subject to requisitioning on and from
the date of such affixing of the notice and be deemed to have been delivered to the person
entitled to possession thereof and the requisitioning authority or Corporation shall not be
liable for any compensation or other claim in respect of such premises for any period
55.
after the said date.
Penalty for contravention of any order regarding requisition.- If any
person contravenes any order made under section 49, or section 51, he shall on
conviction be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year or
160.
with fine or with both.
Chapter V
Page 26/159
----- PAGE 27 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
MAYOR, DEPUTY MAYOR, CHIEF COMMISSIONER, ZONAL COMMISSIONER, ZONAL
56.
COMMITTEE, STANDING COMMITTEE, WARD COMMITTEE, AREA SABHA
Mayor and Deputy Mayor.- The Members of the Corporation shall in the
first meeting of the Corporation elect one of its Members to be the Mayor and another
member to be the Deputy Mayor of the Corporation in such manner as may be
prescribed. In an event of a vacancy in the office of either the Mayor or the Deputy
57.
Mayor, the Corporation shall within one month of such a vacancy fill up these vacancies.
Term of office of the Mayor and Deputy Mayor.-The Mayor or the Deputy
Mayor shall hold office for a period of thirty months from the date of his election and
58.
shall continue in office till his successor is elected.
Reservation of the office of the Mayor and Deputy Mayor- There shall
be reserved by the Government in the prescribed manner the office of Mayor and Deputy
Mayor, as the case may be, of the Corporation, for the persons belonging to the
59.
Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and women by rotation on occurrence of vacancy.
Powers and functions of the Mayor.-(1) The Mayor shall discharge all
functions as has been assigned to him under this Act.
(2)
When the office of the Mayor is vacant, the Deputy Mayor shall act as
a Mayor and perform such functions as have been assigned to him until such
time that a Mayor has been appointed.
(3)
The Mayor shall preside over every meeting of the corporation.
(4)
Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Mayor shall have general
powers of inspection and may give direction to the Chief Commissioner with
regard to the implementation of any resolution of the corporation or a standing
committee in the discharge of any obligatory and discretionary functions of the
corporation, and the Chief Commissioner shall comply with such directions. The
Mayor may call any record of the corporation from the Chief Commissioner and
the records made available to him shall be returned by him within fifteen days
from the date they are made available.
(5)
The Mayor may, by an order in writing delegate any of his functions
to the Deputy Mayor.
(6)
The Mayor shall not be eligible to be elected as chairman of any
standing committee.
(7)
If the Mayor is, at the time of his election as Mayor, the chairman or
an elected member of a standing committee, he shall cease to hold office as such
chairman or member of such committee.
(8)
If any vacancy occurs in the office of the chairman of any standing
committee, the Mayor shall convene a meeting of such committee for the election
60.
of another chairman.
Functions of the Deputy Mayor. - (1) When the office of the Mayor is
Page 27/159
----- PAGE 28 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
vacant, his functions shall devolve on the Deputy Mayor until a new mayor is elected.
(2)
If the Mayor is continuously absent from the city for more than eight
days, or is incapacitated for more than eight days his functions shall devolve on
the Deputy Mayor until the mayor returns to the city or recovers from his
incapacity, as the case may be.
(3)
The Deputy Mayor shall have the power to direct the Chief Commissioner
to get the Administration and Audit Reports prepared in time.
(4)
The Deputy Mayor shall discharge such functions of the Mayor as may be
161.
delegated to him by the Mayor.
61. Resignation of Mayor and Deputy Mayor.- (1) The Mayor may at any time
resign by writing under his hand addressed to the Deputy Mayor and the Deputy Mayor
may resign anytime by writing under his hand addressed to the Mayor:
Provided that in the event of the vacancy of either the office of the Mayor or
the Deputy Mayor the resignation may be addressed to the Regional
Commissioner
(2)
The Regional Commissioner shall hold elections to the Office of Mayor
and Deputy Mayor in accordance with such procedure prescribed within one
month from the date of such vacancy.
(3)
In the event of the office of Mayor and Deputy Mayor is vacant, the
Regional Commissioner shall discharge the functions of the Mayor till the such
elections as under sub-section (2) is held.
(4)
Such a resignation delivered under sub section (1) shall take effect from
62.
the date on which it is delivered.
Honoraria, fees or allowances.- (1) From out of the corporation funds such
honoraria, fees or allowances as may be determined by the Government may be paid to
Mayor, the Deputy Mayor and the Councilors.
(2)
The Corporation shall place at the disposal of the Mayor annually by
way of sumptuary allowance such sum not exceeding the limit as may be
prescribed:
Provided that, the limit shall be as prescribed.
(3)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act the receipt by any
person of honorarium, fee or allowance as Mayor, Deputy Mayor or Councilor as
63.
aforesaid shall not disqualify him for being elected as or for being a Councilor.
Chief Commissioner.- (1) The Chief Commissioner shall be appointed by
the Government in consultation with the Mayor and he shall not be a member of the
Corporation.
(2)
The Chief Commissioner shall be an officer not below the rank of the
Principal Secretary to Government.
(3)
Page 28/159
----- PAGE 29 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
The Chief Commissioner shall hold office for a period of two years
subject to the pleasure of the Government and may be transferred by the
Government, as may be required for the effective administration of the
Corporation.
(4)
The transfer of the Chief Commissioner, specified under sub section
(3)
shall take place only after due consultation of the Corporation and reasons
shall be recorded for such transfer.
(5)
The Chief Commissioner may be transferred from office by the
Government, upon the recommendation of the Corporation on the following
grounds, namely,-
(a)
Proved to be guilty of misconduct and neglect; and
(b)
Incapacity to perform duties assigned to him.
64. Powers and Functions of the Chief Commissioner.-The Chief
Commissioner shall perform the following functions, namely:-
(1)
Supervise and direct the Zonal Commissioners on such matters as
necessary under the Act.
(2)
Co-ordinate between the Mayor, Deputy Mayor, Council and the
Zonal Committees for all matters necessary.
(3)
Decide on certain inter-zonal matters as may be referred to him by
the Zonal Commissioner.
(4)
Undertake such other functions as may be required by him to do so under
162.
this Act or upon the direction of the Mayor or the Government.
(5)
Subject, whenever it is in this Act expressly so directed, to the approval or
sanction of the corporation or the standing committee concerned and subject also to all
other restrictions, limitations and conditions imposed by this Act or by any other law for
the time being in force, the executive power for the purpose of carrying out the provisions
of this Act and of any other law for the time being in force which imposes any duty or
confers any power on the corporation shall vest in the Chief Commissioner, who shall
also,
(a)
perform all the duties and exercise all the powers specifically imposed or
conferred upon him by or under this Act or by any other law for the time being in
force;
(b)
in any emergency take such immediate action for the service or safety of the
public or the protection of the property of the corporation as the emergency shall
appear to him or justify or require, notwithstanding that such action cannot be
taken under this Act without the sanction, approval or authority of some other
municipal authority or of the Government:
Provided that, the Chief Commissioner shall report forthwith to the
Page 29/159
----- PAGE 30 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
standing committee concerned and to the corporation the action he has taken
and the reasons for taking the same and the amount of cost, if any, incurred or
likely to be incurred in consequence of such action which is not covered by a
current budget grant under the provisions of this Act.
(6)
Any powers, duties and functions conferred or imposed upon or vested
in the corporation by any other law for the time being in force shall, subject to the
provisions of such law, be exercised, performed or discharged by the Chief
Commissioner.
(7)
The Chief Commissioner may, with the approval of the standing
committee concerned, by order in writing empower any corporation officer to
exercise, perform or discharge any such power, duty or function under his control
and subject to his revision and to such conditions and limitation, if any, as he
65.
shall think fit to specify.
Chief Commissioner to carry on correspondence.- All correspondence
relating to any matter dealt with, by or under this Act or under any other law between
the corporation and the Government or other authority shall be conducted by the Chief
Commissioner and the Chief Commissioner shall send copies of such correspondence to
66.
the Mayor.
Delegation of Chief Commissioner's ordinary power.- Subject to the
rules made by the State Government, the Chief Commissioner may delegate to any officer
of the Corporation subordinate to him any of his ordinary powers, duties and functions
67.
including such powers as may be prescribed.
Delegation of Chief Commissioner's extraordinary power.- The Chief
Commissioner may on his own responsibility and by order in writing authorise the health
officer, the engineer, the revenue officer or any other officer who is the head of a
department working under the Chief Commissioner, or any person in temporary charge
of the duties of any of the officers aforesaid to exercise the extraordinary powers
68.
conferred on him by clause (b) of sub-section (5) of section 64.
Custody of records.- The Chief Commissioner shall be responsible for the
custody of all records of the corporation including all papers and documents connected
163.
with the proceedings of the corporation, the standing committee and other committees.
69. Control over Corporation establishment.- Subject to the provisions of
this Act, rules and regulations, the Chief Commissioner shall specify the duties of
persons borne on the Corporation establishment and exercise powers of supervision and
70.
control over them and decide all questions relating to their conditions of service.
Salary and Allowances of the Chief Commissioner.-The Chief
Commissioner shall be paid out of the Corporation Fund such monthly salary and
allowances, if any, as may from time to time be fixed by the State Government and shall
also be given such facilities in relation to residential accommodation, conveyance and
71.
such other facilities as may be fixed by the Government.
Appointment of officiating Chief Commissioner in case of death,
resignation or removal of Commissioner.-If any vacancy occurs in the office of the
Page 30/159
----- PAGE 31 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
Chief Commissioner on account of death, resignation or removal, the Government may
appoint another Officer not below the rank of the Principal Secretary to Government to
take the role of the acting Chief Commissioner in his place for a term not exceeding six
72.
months, pending the appointment of a new Chief commissioner.
Zonal Commissioner.- A Zonal commissioner shall be appointed by the
Government, for each zone notified by it and shall be a person not below the rank of the
73.
Secretary to the Government.
Salary and Conditions of the Zonal Commissioner.-The Zonal
Commissioner shall be paid out of the Municipal Fund of the state such monthly salary
and such monthly allowances, if any, as may from time to time be fixed by the
Government and shall also be given such facilities in relation to residential
accommodation, conveyance and such other facilities as may be fixed by the
74.
Government.
Powers and Functions of the Zonal Commissioner.-The Zonal
Commissioner shall perform the following functions, namely:-
(a)
He shall be the nodal authority for carrying out the civic
administration on those matters specified under this Act for the zone under his
jurisdiction;
(b)
He shall supervise, direct and coordinate the ward committees and
the area sabhas on such matters as specified under this Act;
(c)
He shall undertake functions as directed by the Chief Commissioner
or Mayor from time to time; and
(d)
Subject to the rules made by the State Government, the Zonal
Commissioner may delegate to any officer of the Corporation subordinate to him
75.
any of his ordinary powers, duties and functions as provided under the Act.
Establishment of a Constituency Consultative Committee.- (1) There
shall be a Committee known as the Constituency Consultative Committee, which shall be
established by the Government for every assembly constituency in the corporation area.
(2)
The Constituency Consultative Committee shall consist of the following members
namely:-
(a)
Member of the legislative Assembly from that Assembly Constituency
who shall be the Chairperson;
(b)
the Corporation Councillors of all wards in that assembly constituency;
(c)
not more than five resident association representatives of the Assembly
Constituency nominated by the Chairperson with the approval of the
Government.
(3)
The term of nominated members shall be thirty months.
(4)
Page 31/159
----- PAGE 32 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
A person shall be disqualified for being nominated as a member of the
164.
Constituency Consultative Committee or to continue as such member, if under
the provisions of the Act, for the time being in force, he would be disqualified for
being elected as a Councillor of a Corporation.
(5)
The nominated member shall not have any personal interest in the affairs of
76.
the Corporation.
Functions of the Constituency Consultative Committee.- The
Constituency Consultative Committee shall:-
(a)
Give aid and advice the zonal committees in the performance of their functions;
(b)
review the working of the zonal committees and provide suggestions for the
improvement of backward ward;
(c)
Monitor the implementations of any projects in the constituency;
(d)
Receive any grievances from the general public relating to the functioning of any
authority empowered under this Act;
(e)
advise the ward committees in carrying out their functions under the Act; and
(f)
Upon the previous sanction of the Chairperson seek such information necessary
to review the working of the zonal committee and provide suggestions for the
77.
improvement of backward Ward.
Establishment of Zonal Committees.-(1)Each Zone of a Corporation shall
have a Zonal Committee consisting of the following members namely:-
(a)
The Chairperson of the Zonal Committee shall be a councilor
representing one of the wards within the Zone who shall be elected among
councilors of the any such manner as may be prescribed.
(b)
All the Councilors elected from the wards within the Zone;
(c)
An Engineer who is incharge of the particular zone- Ex-officio Member;
(d)
one person who is an expert in solid waste management nominated by
Government; and
(e)
one person who is an expert in urban governance nominated by the Government.
(2)
The term of the Chairperson of the Zonal Committee shall be one year.
(3)
A councilor who has become Chairperson of the zonal committee shall not
be eligible to become Chairperson for the second term.
(4)
Officers of the Bengaluru Development Authority and the Bengaluru
Water Supply and Sewerage Board who are responsible for the maintenance of
Page 32/159
----- PAGE 33 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
services within the concerned zone shall be ex-officio members of the Zonal
Committee. Police Officers including traffic incharge of the ward, BESCOM Officer
incharge of the Zone shall attend the meetings of the Zonal Committees as may
be required but shall not have the right to vote.
(5)
The Zonal Commissioner shall be coordinator of the Zonal Committee.
(6)
The Government shall by way of Rules specify the qualifications, manner of
appointment and honorarium of the expert members of the zonal committee.
(7)
The Zonal Commissioner shall call for a meeting of the zonal committee at
least once a month and the minutes of every zonal committee meeting shall be
recorded, submitted to the Chief Commissioner and published on such mediums
as may be specified within fifteen days from the date of such meeting.
(8)
The quorum for a zonal committee meeting shall be one fourth.
(9)
The Corporation shall provide an office space and secretarial staff for the
165.
working of the Zonal Committee
78. Powers and Functions of the Zonal Committee.- (1) The Zonal Committee
shall,-
(a)
Supervise the implementation of any project or scheme of the
Corporation which cuts across the boundaries of multiple wards but is
within the boundaries of the Zone;
(b)
Issue directions to the respective ward engineer or such other
officers of the Corporation for the implementation of any project or scheme;
(c)
Approve fresh infrastructure projects on management of solid waste,
improvement of public streets, improvement of public spaces including parks
and improvement of the aesthetics of the zone up to such amounts as may
be specified and beyond such amount recommend to the Corporation of such
projects;
(d)
Recommend to the Corporation any amendments to the bye-laws of
the Corporation;
(e)
Take up discussion on those matters recommended by the ward
committees, recommend the same to the corporation and issue directions to
the ward committees within its delegated power to undertake such
functions;
(f)
Organize public engagement activities to improve civic awareness;
and
(g)
subject to the general supervision and control of the Corporation,
discharge such functions as the Corporation may, from time to time,
determine by regulations.
(2)
Page 33/159
----- PAGE 34 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
Any project approved by the zonal committee shall follow such
applicable law and procedure. All decisions in the Zonal Committee shall, as far
as possible, be arrived at through consensus and where consensus is not
possible, the decision shall be taken by the majority of the members present and
voting.
(3)
The Chief Commissioner shall have the power to review and nullify
the decisions of the Zonal Committee if it is of the opinion that such decisions are
79.
contrary to the provisions of the Act or any other law for the time being in force.
Allocation of Funds.- (1) The Zonal Committee shall allocate such amounts
out of the budget earmarked for the particular zone to the ward committees for
undertaking its functions mentioned under Section 78.
(2)
Allocation and utilisation of funds to and by the ward committees for
maintenance of civic services shall be in the manner prescribed by the
Government and the ward committee shall be required to furnish a utilization
report to the zonal committee in such time period and such formats as may be
80.
prescribed.
Establishment of Standing Committees.-(1) There shall be the following
Standing Committees for the Corporation,-
(a)
Standing Committee for taxation and finance and appeals
(b)
Standing Committee for public health, solid waste and disaster
management.
(c)
Standing Committee for establishment and administrative reforms;
(d)
Standing Committee for markets.
(e)
Standing Committee for Ward level Public works, town planning and
infrastructure
(f)
Standing Committee for Education and social justice
(g)
Standing Committee for Horticulture
166
(h)
Standing Committee for Audit and Accounts
(2)
Each Standing Committee shall consist of fifteen councillors who
shall be elected by the Council.
(3)
Each Standing Committee shall have a chairperson who shall be
elected by the members of such standing committee on its first meetingof the
corporation after the general elections and at the first meeting in the same month
in each succeeding year according to the principle of proportionate representation
by means of single transferable vote in such manner as may be prescribed
(4)
Page 34/159
----- PAGE 35 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
The duration of the Standing Committee shall be one year.
(5)
The Mayor and Deputy Mayor shall be the ex-officio members of all
the standing committees.
(6)
A person shall cease to be a member of the standing committee if he
ceases to be a Corporation member or if he absents himself without the
permission of the standing committee for three consecutive meetings of the
standing committee.
(7)
Where a casual vacancy occurs in the membership of a standing
committee it shall be filled by the Corporation by the election of another Palike
member. The person so elected shall hold office only so long as the person in
whose place he is elected would, but for the occurrence of the vacancy, have held.
(8)
A member of the standing committee may resign his office at any
time by notice in writing addressed to the chairman of the standing committee or
where there is no Chairman to the Mayor and delivered to the Chairman or as the
case may be to the Mayor and such resignation shall take effect from the date on
81.
which it is delivered.
Powers and Functions of the Standing Committee.-(1) Subject to the
provisions of the Act and the rules made thereunder, the powers and functions of the
Standing Committee shall be as follows:-
(a)
The Standing Committee for taxation, finance and appeals
shall deal with all matters relating to finance, taxation and appeal and all
matters not specifically assigned to any other Standing Committee;
(b)
The standing committee for public health, Solid waste and
disaster management shall deal with all matters relating to public
health, waste and disaster management;
(c)
The Standing Committee on infrastructure shall deal with all
matters relating to infrastructure;
(d)
The Standing Committee for appeals shall hear all appeals
required under the Act;
(e)
The Standing Committee for establishment and administrative
reforms shall deal with all matters relating to establishment and
administrative reforms; and
(f)
the Standing Committee for Audit and Accounts shall deal with
all matters relating to accounts and audit;
(g)
the Standing Committee for Education shall deal with all
matters relating to preprimary, primary, secondary and higher
secondary education including physical education and sports and play
grounds;
(h)
Page 35/159
----- PAGE 36 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
the Standing Committee for Social Justice shall deal with all
matters relating to securing the social justice to persons belonging to the
d Castes and Scheduled Tribes and other weaker sections of the society
and women;
167
(i)
the Standing Committee for markets shall deal with all matters
relating to the markets; and
(j)
the Standing Committee for Horticulture shall deal with all
matters relating to the Parks.
(2)
The standing committees shall also have power to,-
(i)
call for such records as may be required for disposal of day to day
business; and
(ii)
perform such other functions as may be prescribed.
82. Constitution of the Ward Committee.-There shall be a Ward Committee
83.
for each Ward of the Corporation.
Composition of the Ward Committee.- (1) There shall be a Ward
Committee for each ward in the Corporation.
(2)
The Ward Committee shall consist of the following, namely:-
(a)
the Councillor of the Corporation representing the Ward, shall
be the Chairperson of the Ward Committee;
(b)
ten other members to be nominated by the Corporation; out of
which, there shall be,-
(i)
at least two members belonging to the Scheduled Castes and
the Scheduled Tribes;
(ii)
at least three women members; and
(iii)
at least two members representing residents Associations,
whatever name called satisfying all conditions mentioned below,
namely:-
(a)
its registered office shall be located within the
jurisdiction of that ward;
(b)
it shall represent majority of residents, or civic groups,
or commercial groups or industrial groups;
(c)
it shall have been actively engaged in its activities for
not less than three years; and
(d)
it shall be a registered Association by whatever name
Page 36/159
----- PAGE 37 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
called, comprising of individuals who serve in a fiduciary capacity;
Provided that, half of the persons to be nominated to the Ward Committee
shall be women and at least one fourth of the members nominated to the Ward
Committee shall belong to Scheduled Castes and/ or Scheduled Tribes.
(3)
All Area Sabha representatives falling within the jurisdiction of the
ward shall be invitees to the meetings of the Ward Committee but shall not have
the right to vote.
(4)
A person shall be disqualified for being nominated as a member of the
Ward Committee or to continue as such member, if under the provisions of the
Act, for the time being in force, he would be disqualified for being elected as a
Councillor of a Corporation.
(5)
The term of office of the Ward Committee shall be co-terminus with the
84.
term of office of the Corporation.
Procedure for nomination as a member of the Ward Committee.-The
Chief Commissioner or an officer authorized by the Chief Commissioner shall, within
thirty days of the completion of the Corporation election shall nominate members to the
85.
wards committee.
Meeting of the Ward Committee.-(1)The Ward Committee shall meet at
least once in a month for discharging the duties and performing the functions as are
168.
assigned to it under the Act, from time to time.
(2)
An officer of appropriate rank shall be designated by the Zonal
Commissioner of the respective zone to act as Secretary for each Ward
Committee, who shall also be a member of the ward committee, to provide
administrative assistance to it.
(3)
All minutes of the proceedings of the meeting of the Ward Committee
shall be recorded by the Secretary and a copy of the same shall be forwarded to
the Corporation.
(4)
The meeting of the Ward Committee shall be convened by the
Secretary of the Ward Committee in consultation with Chairperson.
(5)
No meeting of the ward committee shall be held on a public holiday
and on the day on which a meeting of the Corporation is scheduled to be held.
(6)
No meeting shall be held unless notice of the day and time when the
meeting is to be held and of the agenda has been given at least five days before
the day of the meeting.
(7)
The quorum for the meetings shall be one third of members.
(8)
Decisions of the Ward Committee shall normally be taken on the
basis of simple majority.
(9)
Page 37/159
----- PAGE 38 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
No act or proceedings undertaken under this Act by the Ward
Committee shall be invalid merely on the ground of any vacancy in it.
(10)
The Zonal Commissioner or his nominee, shall be entitled to take
Part in ? the meetings and deliberations of the Ward Committee but shall not have
the right to vote.
(11)
The Chairperson of the Ward Committee may request the
representatives of concerned departments of the Corporation as special invitees to
participate in the meetings.
(12)
The Chairperson, or in her absence, a member chosen, by the
members present, from among themselves, shall preside over the meeting.
(13)
The manner of conduct of business at the meetings of the Ward
86.
Committee shall be such as may be prescribed.
Functions of the Ward Committee.- (1) The Ward Committee shall
discharge the following functions, namely:-
(a)
prepare and submit Ward Development Scheme to the corporation for
allotment of funds;
(b)
prepare and submit annual Ward Development Plan, drawn up in
accordance with the plans prepared by the Bengaluru Metropolitan
Planning Committee and the Corporation, in the form of a priority list
specifying the projects and schemes proposed to be implemented in the
following financial year for allotment of funds and ensure proper utilization
of the funds allotted under ward development plan in the ward;
(c)
call for an annual general meeting of the Ward Sabha consisting of all
persons registered as voters in the Ward for providing inputs for the
formulation of the Annual Ward Development Plan, giving due publicity and
notice for the same to ensure maximum participation in the Ward.
(d)
call for any general meeting to discuss any issue which requires decision
making by popular participation
(e)
invite applications for the selection of beneficiaries and prepare the draft
priority list after making enquiry on the applications received in this behalf
and send it for the consideration of the Area Sabha concerned, and prepare
the final list based on the inputs of the Area Sabha for submission to the
Zonal Committee;
(f)
ensure proper utilization of the funds allotted under ward development
169.
scheme in the ward.
(g)
approve the list of beneficiaries for beneficiary oriented schemes of the
Corporation submitted by Area Sabhas falling under that ward;
(h)
Page 38/159
----- PAGE 39 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
scrutinize list of ineligible beneficiaries submitted by the Area Sabhas and
submit it to the Corporation;
(i)
supervise all programmes and schemes being implemented by the
Corporation in the ward;
(j)
ensure timely collection of taxes, fees and other sums due to the
Corporation;
(k)
ensure water supply maintenance in the ward and finalize location of new
public taps and public wells;
(l)
ensure sewerage system maintenance in the ward;
(m)
ensure proper solid waste management and sanitation work in the ward
and finalize location of new public sanitation units;
(n)
ensure maintenance of street lighting in the ward and finalize location of
new street lights;
(o)
ensure maintenance of parks, open spaces, greening of area in the ward; (l)
ensure afforestation, and implementation of rain water harvesting schemes;
(p)
mobilize voluntary labour and donation by way of goods or money for
implementation of Ward Development Scheme and various programmes
and schemes of Corporation;
(q)
inform the Corporation regarding any encroachment of land belonging to
the Corporation;
(r)
to display ward budget and current undergoing projects to public notice;
and
(s)
perform such other functions as may be assigned to it by the Corporation
as per its bye-laws.
(2)
The procedure to be adopted by the Ward Committee in the transaction of its
business shall be such as may be prescribed.
(3)
The Corporation shall provide an office space and secretarial staff for the working
of the Ward Committee
(4)
The recommendations of the ward committee shall be advisory in nature.
87. Allocation of Funds.-(1)The Zonal Committee shall allocate such amounts
out of the budget earmarked for the particular zone to the ward committees for
maintenance of services like water supply, sanitation, drains, street lights, parks,
markets among others in the ward.
(2)
Allocation and utilisation of funds to and by the ward committees for
maintenance of civic services shall be in the manner prescribed by the
Government and the ward committee shall be required to furnish a utilization
Page 39/159
----- PAGE 40 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
report to the zonal committee in such time period and such formats as may be
88.
prescribed.
Appointment of sub-committees.-The Ward Committee may, from time to
time, appoint sub committees as it may think fit and may refer to such sub-committees
for opinion or enquiry on any matter relating to the functions entrusted to the Ward
89.
Committee.
Determination of Areas.-The Government shall, by order, determine ,?
(a)
the areas into which each ward shall be divided; and
(b)
as far as possible, the territories representing two or more but not
90.
exceeding five contiguous polling stations may be determined as an area.
Constitution of Area Sabhas.- (1) Each ward shall be divided into such
number of areas and there shall be an Area Sabha for each such area.
(2)
All persons who are registered as voters in an area shall be members of
170.
that Area Sabha.
91. Representatives of the Area Sabha.-(1) There shall be an Area Sabha
Representative for each area to be nominated by the Zonal Committees from the
representatives of the civil society in the manner as may be prescribed.
(2)
The qualifications and disqualifications prescribed for getting elected
as member of Corporation and for holding the office as Member of Corporation
under the relevant provisions of the Act shall apply mutatis mutandis for the
representative of the Area Sabha.
(3)
The Area Sabha representative shall be a member of that Area Sabha.
(4)
The term of the representative of the Area Sabha shall be ordinarily
92.
co-terminus with that of the Corporation.
Meetings of the Area Sabha.-(1) The Area Sabha shall meet at least once
in a month.
(2)
The Area Sabha Representative shall preside over the meeting of the
Area Sabha.
(3)
An officer of appropriate rank shall be designated by the Zonal
Commissioner to act as a nodal officer for each Area Sabha and who shall provide
all administrative assistance to the Area Sabha Representative in conducting
meetings of the Area Sabha.
(4)
The nodal officer shall be the convener of the Area Sabha meetings
and shall convene the meeting in consultation with the Area Sabha
Representative.
(5)
All minutes of the proceedings of the meeting shall be recorded by the
Page 40/159
----- PAGE 41 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
nodal officer and a copy of the same shall be forwarded by him to the Ward
Committee.
(6)
All decisions in the Area Sabha shall be as far as possible be arrived
at through a consensus of all the members present. Where consensus is not
93.
possible, the decision shall be taken by the majority of the members present.
Functions of the Area Sabha.-An Area Sabha shall perform and discharge
the following functions and duties, namely, ?
(a)
to generate proposals and determine the priority of schemes
and development programmes to be implemented in the Area Sabha and
forward the same to Ward Committee for inclusion in the development plan
of the Ward Committee;
(b)
to identify the most eligible persons for beneficiary-oriented
schemes on the basis of criteria fixed by the Government and prepare the
list of beneficiaries in order of priority and forward the same to Ward
Committee for inclusion in the development plan of the Ward Committee;
(c)
to verify the eligibility of persons getting various kinds of
welfare assistance from Government such as pensions and subsidies;
(d)
to get information from the officials concerned as to the
services they will render and the works proposed to be executed in the area
in the upcoming quarter after the meeting of the Ward Committee;
(e)
to seek information from the Ward Committee of follow up
action taken on the decisions concerning the jurisdiction of the area;
(f)
to identify the deficiencies in water supply, street lighting and
sanitation arrangements in the jurisdiction of the Area Sabha and to
suggest the remedial measures to the Ward Committee;
(g)
to suggest the location of street lights, public taps, public
171.
wells, public toilets to the Ward Committee; and
(h)
to assist in the activities of public health centres in the area;
94.
and to perform such other functions as may be prescribed.
Power of councillors.- (1) Any councillor may draw the attention of the
proper authority to any neglect in the execution of corporation work, to any waste of
corporation property or to the wants of any locality, and may suggest any improvements
which he considers desirable.
(2)
Every councillor shall have the right to interpellate on matters
connected with the corporation administration subject to the regulations framed
in this behalf.
(3)
The Corporation member shall have the right to represent the interests
Page 41/159
----- PAGE 42 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
of the ward from which he is elected in the Corporation and may draw the
attention of the Mayor to the proposals and resolutions made by the Ward
95.
Committee of which he is the Chairperson.
Honorarium for Corporation members: (1) From out of the Corporation
funds such honoraria, fees or allowances as may be determined by the Government may
be paid to the Corporation members.
(2)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act the receipt by any person
of honorarium, fee or allowance as Corporation member as aforesaid shall not
96.
disqualify him for being elected as or for being a Corporation member.
Appeal to the Election of Mayor, Deputy Mayor etc.-(1) Any person
aggrieved by the decision of the Regional Commissioner or the Chief Commissioner with
respect to election to the office of the Mayor, Deputy Mayor, Members and Chairperson of
the standing committees may appeal against such decisions to the Karnataka Appellate
Tribunal within thirty days from the date of communication of such decision.
(2)
No suit shall be entertained by a civil court in respect of any matter
relating to the election, appointment or removal of the Mayor, Deputy Mayor,
Members and Chairperson the Mayor or Deputy Mayor, members and chairman
of the standing committees unless such suit is authorised by the provisions of
this Act or any rule made under this Act.
Chapter VI
Corporation officers and servants and their appointments and
97.
conditions of service
Appointment to certain posts under the corporations to be made from
Karnataka Municipal Administrative Service.- (1) Notwithstanding anything contained
in this Act or in any other law for the time being in force such of the posts under the
corporation as are included in the Karnataka Municipal Administrative Service shall be
filled by the Government by appointment of officers belonging to the Karnataka
Municipal Administrative Service.
(2)
Subject to the provisions relating to recruitment and conditions of
service applicable to them , the officers of the Karnataka Municipal
Administrative Service referred to in sub-section (1) shall, for the period of their
service under the corporation, be governed by the provisions of this Act, the rules,
the regulations or the bye-laws framed thereunder.
(3)
The Corporation shall contribute such percentage of its revenues in
such manner and at such times as the Government may by order determine, to
172.
meet the expenditure in respect of salaries, allowances, pension, provident fund,
gratuities and other necessary expenses payable to the officers of the Karnataka
Municipal Administrative Service shall be made by the Commissioner under the
corporation.
(4)
If the Corporation fails to pay the amount required to be paid under
subsection (3), the Government may direct the officer having custody of the
corporation fund to pay such amount or so much thereof as is possible from the
Page 42/159
----- PAGE 43 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
98.
balance of the corporation fund in his hands.
Appointment of Engineer, Health Officer etc.- (1) The Government shall
depute for the corporation such officers from the respective departments of the State
Civil Services as it considers suitable to be the Engineer, Town Planner, Health Officer,
Revenue Officer, Chief Accounts Officer and Council Secretary for the efficient
functioning of the corporation and such officers shall be heads of their respective
departments in the corporation and they shall be subordinate to the Chief
Commissioner. The Government may also depute such number of Deputy
Commissioners and Assistant Commissioners, as may be required, who shall exercise
such powers and discharge such functions as may be prescribed in the rules. They shall
be subordinate to the Zonal Commissioner.
(2)
The Government shall depute a Chief Town Planner of the rank of the
Director of Town and Country Planning who shall be subordinate to the Chief
Commissioner and Zonal Town Planner at Zonal office not below the rank of Deputy
Director of Town and Country Planning and such other officers from the Department of
Town and Country Planning qualified in Town and Country Planning who shall be
subordinate to the Zonal Commissioner, to assist the corporation in the matter relating
to Town Planning.
(3)
The Government shall, in consultation with the Mayor, appoint
an officer not below the rank of an Assistant Commissioner to be the council
secretary. The officer appointed shall be on deputation ordinarily for a period of
three years and if the corporation by two thirds majority of its members so desire
he shall be withdrawn earlier and another person shall be appointed. It shall be
the duty of the council secretary to attend every meeting of the corporation and
the standing committees and he shall perform such other duties as are imposed
on him by or under this Act.
(4)
The officers appointed under sub-section (1) shall be whole-
time officers of the corporation and shall not undertake any work unconnected
99.
with their offices.
Legal cell.- (1) There shall be a legal cell in the corporation
consisting of such number of officers possessing such qualifications as may be
prescribed.
(2)
The corporation shall consult the legal cell on all matters pertaining
to the interpretation of the provisions of this Act and the Rules, Regulations and
bye-laws made there under and also in matters pertaining to the institution,
defence or conduct of suits and other legal proceedings to which the corporation
is a party.
(3)
The expenditure on the legal cell shall be met out of the corporation
100.
funds.
Special appointments.- The Corporation may appoint,-
(a)
special health officers for the purpose of making investigations and
173.
Page 43/159
----- PAGE 44 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
proposing preventive or remedial measures with special reference to the
occurrence of any unusual mortality or the prevalence or apprehended out break
of any dangerous disease within the city;
(b)
engineers, architects or experts in town improvement or town
planning for the purpose of preparing, executing or supervising any scheme of
work undertaken by the corporation;
(c)
special revenue officers for the purpose of introducing a new tax or
discharging any duty connected with the revenue administration of the
corporation:
Provided that,-
(i)
no such special office shall be created without the sanction of the
Government;
(ii)
the period of duration of any such officer, the salary, the allowances
and the conditions of service attaching thereto shall be fixed by the corporation,
subject to the sanction of the Government, and shall not be varied without the
101.
like sanction.
Contribution in respect of Government servants.- (1) If an officer or
servant serving or having served under the corporation is or has been transferred from or
to the service of the Government or is employed partly under the Government and partly
by the corporation, the corporation shall make such contribution towards his leave
allowances, pension and provident fund as may be required to be made by him or on his
behalf under the rules and regulations of the branch of Government service to which he
belongs.
(2)
Every Government servant employed by the corporation shall
be entitled to salary, leave and other privileges in accordance with the rules and
102.
regulations of the branch of Government service to which he belongs.
Establishment schedule.- (1) The Chief Commissioner shall lay before the
standing committee for taxation, finance and appeals or establishment and
administrative reforms as the case may be a Schedule setting forth the designations and
grades of the officers and servants who should in his opinion constitute the corporation
establishment and embodying his proposals with regard to the salaries, fees and
allowances payable to them.
(2)
The standing committee may either approve or amend such
as it thinks fit and shall lay it before the corporation with its
remarks, if any.
(3)
The Corporation shall sanction such schedule with or without
modifications as it thinks fit and may from time to time amend it at the
instance of the Chief Commissioner and standing committee:
Provided that, no new office shall be created without the sanction of the
103.
Government if the maximum monthly salary exceeds Rupees ten thousand.
Reservation of posts for appointment.- In making appointments the
Page 44/159
----- PAGE 45 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
appointing authority shall reserve adequate number of posts for the Scheduled Castes,
the Scheduled Tribes and socially and educationally backward classes of citizens in the
same manner and to the same extent as is applicable for the recruitment to posts in the
104.
State Civil Services.
Punishment for corporation officers and other employees.- (1) Every
corporation officer or other corporation employee shall be liable to have his increments or
promotion with-held or to be censured, reduced in rank, compulsorily retired, removed or
dismissed for any breach of any departmental rules or regulations or of discipline or for
carelessness, unfitness, neglect of duty or other misconduct by such authority as may be
174.
prescribed:
Provided that no such officer or other employee as aforesaid shall be
reduced in rank, compulsorily retired, removed or dismissed by any authority
subordinate to that by which he was appointed:
Provided further that the corporation employees belonging to such classes
or categories as may be prescribed by the rules shall be liable also to be fined by
such authority as may be specified therein.
(2)
No such officer or other employee shall be punished under sub-section
(1)
unless he has been given a reasonable opportunity of showing cause against
the action proposed to be taken in regard to him:
Provided that this sub-section shall not apply,-
(a)
where an officer or other employee is removed or dismissed on the
ground of conduct which has led to his conviction on a criminal charge; or
(b)
where the authority empowered to remove or dismiss such officer
or other employee is satisfied that for reasons to be recorded by that
authority it is not reasonably practicable to give that person an
opportunity for showing cause.
(3)
If any question arises whether it is reasonably practicable to give to any
officer or other employee an opportunity of showing cause under sub-section (2)
the decision thereon of the authority empowered to remove or dismiss such officer
or other employee shall be final.
(4)
Any officer or other employee upon whom a punishment has been
imposed under this section may appeal to such officer or authority as may be
105.
prescribed.
Power of Government to make rules regarding the conditions of service
applicable to employees.- (1) The Government may by rules provide for the following
matters namely:-
(a)
the tenure of office, salaries and allowances, provident fund, pension,
gratuity, leave of absence and other conditions of service of officers and other
employees appointed under this Chapter;
(b)
the procedure to be followed in imposing any penalty under sub-section
Page 45/159
----- PAGE 46 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
(1)
of section 104, suspension pending departmental inquires before the
imposition of such penalty and the authority by whom such suspensions may be
ordered; the officer or authority to whom an appeal shall lie under sub-section (4)
of that section;
(c)
any other matter which is incidental to or necessary for the purpose of
regulating the appointment and conditions of service of persons appointed to
services and posts under the Corporation and any other matter for which, in the
opinion of the Government, provision shall be made by rules.
Chapter VII
POWERS AND FUNCTIONS OF THE CORPORATION
106. General powers of the Corporation.-(1)Subject to the provisions of this
Act and the rules, regulations and bye-laws made thereunder the municipal governance
of Bengaluru shall vest in the Corporation.
(2)
Without prejudice to the generality of the provisions of sub-section (1),
it shall be the duty of the Corporation to exercise such powers, perform such
175.
functions and discharge such duties prescribed by and under this Act.
107. Powers and Functions of the Corporation.-(1)The Corporation shall have
the power and responsibility to prepare and implement schemes for urban development
and social justice in relation to the matters enumerated in the First Schedule, subject to
the provisions of this Act and the provisions of the other Acts, rules and such other
provisions as may be prescribed in this behalf:
Provided that, it shall be the duty of the Corporation to render
necessary services to the inhabitants of the Corporation area in respect of the
matters enumerated as core functions in the First Schedule;
(2)
The Corporation shall have such powers, authority and
responsibilities, as prescribed, to enable it to function as an institution of self-
government in respect of the matters entrusted to it.
(3)
The annual budget allocation, in respect of the subjects provided in
the First Schedule, by the Government shall be wholly allotted to the Corporation.
(4)
The Corporation shall manage institutions and administer the
schemes allocated to it, subject to the guidelines and technical directions from
the Government and in accordance with the State and National policies.
(5)
Where any development scheme, project or plan involves selection of
beneficiaries, the criterion for the eligibility and priority for such selection shall be
determined by the Corporation subject to the terms and conditions of such
scheme, project or plan and such criteria shall be published in the prescribed
108.
manner and shall be intimated to the Ward Committee concerned.
Additional Functions assigned by the Government.-(1)The Corporation
may, subject to the underwriting of the costs by, and approval of, the Central
Government or the State Government, as the case may be, undertake any function
belonging to the functional domain of the Central Government or the State Government
as the case may be, and such functions may include primary education, curative health,
Page 46/159
----- PAGE 47 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
urban transport, supply of energy, fire prevention and fire safety and urban poverty
alleviation.
(2)
The Corporation may also, subject to the orders of the State
Government, undertake such or all functions related to,?
(a)
Urban development including development of commercial
infrastructure;
(b)
Public welfare including community relations; and
(c)
Such other functions as may be assigned.
109. First charge on Corporation Fund.-(1)The core functions of the
corporation shall constitute the first charge on the Corporation fund.
(2)
Subject to the satisfactory performance of the core functions and the
availability of Corporation funds, the Corporation shall undertake or perform, or
promote the performance of any of the general functions or sector-wise functions
referred in the First Schedule.
Chapter VIII
PROCEDURE OF THE CORPORATION AND COMMITTEES
110. Proceedings of the Corporation and standing committees.- (1) The first
meeting of the corporation after the general election shall be held as early as possible
after the publication of the results of such election and shall be convened by the Chief
Commissioner. It shall be presided over by the Regional Commissioner of the revenue
region having jurisdiction.
(2)
The meetings of the corporation and the standing committees shall be
176.
held in the office of the corporation and the business before them shall be
disposed of in accordance with the prescribed procedure. Notices of such
meetings shall be issued by the council secretary who in the case of meetings of
the corporation shall do so in consultation with the Mayor and the Chief
Commissioner and in the case of meetings of a standing committee in
consultation with the chairman of such committee and the Chief Commissioner.
Every notice shall specify the agenda for the meeting. Ordinarily no subject not
included in the agenda shall be taken up at the meeting except matters
considered urgent by the Mayor or the chairman which may be considered if
supplementary agenda in respect thereof has been circulated among the
councillors or members before the meeting.
(3)
The corporation may require any of its officers to attend any meeting of the
corporation at which any matter dealt with by such officer in the course of his duties is
being discussed when any officer is thus required to attend any such meeting he may be
called upon to make a statement of facts or supply such information in his possession
111.
relating to any matter dealt with by him as the corporation may require.
Obligation laid on remaining Corporation authorities to carry out
resolutions of the corporation.- The committees constituted under this Act and the
Chief Commissioner shall be bound to give effect to every resolution of the corporation
unless such resolution is cancelled in whole or in part by the Government:
Page 47/159
----- PAGE 48 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
Provided that, if, in the opinion of the Chief Commissioner any resolution of the
corporation or a committee constituted under this Act contravenes any provision of this
Act or any other law or of any rule, notification, regulation or bye-law made or issued
under this Act or any other law, or of any order passed by the Government or is
prejudicial to the interests of the corporation he shall, within fifteen days of the passing
of the resolution, refer the matter to the Government for orders and inform the
corporation or the committee, as the case may be, of the action taken by him at its next
meeting and until the orders of the Government on such reference are received, the Chief
112.
Commissioner shall not be bound to give effect to the resolution.
The Corporation may call for extracts from proceedings, etc., from the
standing committee, etc.- The corporation may at any time call for any extract from
any proceedings of any committee constituted under this Act, and any return, statement,
account or report concerning or connected with any matter with which any such
committee is empowered by or under this Act to deal; and every such requisition shall be
113.
complied with by the committee without unreasonable delay.
Proceedings of the corporation, etc., not vitiated by disqualification,
etc., of members thereof.- (1) No act done or proceeding taken under this Act shall be
questioned merely on the ground,-
(a)
of any vacancy or defect in the constitution of the corporation or of any
standing committee; or
(b)
of any defect or irregularity in such act or proceeding, not affecting the
merits of the case.
(2)
No disqualification of or defect in the election or appointment of any person
acting as a councillor, Mayor or the Deputy Mayor or as the chairman or a member of
any standing committee appointed under this Act shall be deemed to vitiate any act
or proceedings of the corporation or of any such standing committee in which such
person has taken part provided that the majority of the persons who were parties to
177.
such act or proceedings were entitled to act.
114. Record of proceedings.- Proceeding of the meetings of the corporation and
the standing committees shall be recorded by the council secretary and shall be placed
115.
before the next meeting for confirmation.
Proceedings of meetings to be good and valid until contrary is proved.-
Until the contrary is proved, every meeting of the corporation or of a standing committee
in respect of the proceedings whereof a minute has been made and signed in accordance
with this Act or the rules shall be deemed to have been duly convened and held and to be
free from all defects and irregularities, and all the members of the meeting shall be
deemed to have been duly qualified; and where the proceedings are proceedings of a
standing committee such standing committee shall be deemed to have been duly
116.
constituted and to have had power to deal with the matters referred to in the minute.
The Chief Commissioner's right to attend and take part in discussion
but not to move resolution or to vote.- (1) The Chief Commissioner shall have the
right to attend the meetings of the corporation and of any standing committee and to
take part in the discussion but shall not have the right to move any resolution or to vote.
Page 48/159
----- PAGE 49 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
(2)
He shall attend any meeting of the corporation or of a standing committee
117.
if required to do so by the Mayor.
The Councillors to refrain from taking part in discussion and voting on
questions in which they have pecuniary interest.- (1) No councillor shall vote on or
take part in the discussion of, any question coming up for consideration at a meeting of
the corporation or any standing committee, if the question is one in which apart from its
general application to the public he has any direct or indirect pecuniary interest by
himself or his partner.
(2)
The Mayor or chairman may prohibit any councillor from voting on or partaking in
the discussion of, any matter in which the councillor is believed to have such interest
or he may require the councillor to absent himself during the discussion.
(3)
Such councillor may challenge the decision of the Mayor or chairman, who
shall thereupon put the question to vote and the decision of the meeting shall be
final.
(4)
If the Mayor or chairman is alleged by any councillor present at the meeting to
have any such interest in any matter under discussion, he may, on the motion of
such councillor if carried, be required to absent himself from the meeting during the
discussion.
(5)
The councillor concerned shall not be entitled to vote on the question referred
to in sub-section (3) and the Mayor or chairman concerned shall not be entitled to
118.
vote on the motion referred to in sub-section (4).
Submission of administration report to the Government.-(1) As soon as
may be after the first day of April in every year and not later than such date as may be
fixed by the Government the corporation shall submit to the Government, a detailed
report of the administration during the preceding year in such form as the Government
may direct.
(2)
The Chief Commissioner shall prepare such report and the corporation shall
consider the report and forward the same to the Government with its resolutions
thereon, if any.
(3)
Copies of the administration report shall be kept for sale at the corporation
178.
office.
Chapter IX
ESSENTIAL SERVICES
119. Declaration of Essential Services, etc.- (1) The corporation may from time
to time declare such classes of its services as it considers necessary to be essential
services.
(2)
No member of an essential service shall,-
(a)
without the written permission of the Chief Commissioner or any officer
authorised by him in this behalf, resign his office, withdraw or absent himself
Page 49/159
----- PAGE 50 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
from the duties thereof without at least two month's notice given in writing to the
Chief Commissioner, except in the case of illness or accidents disabling him for
the discharge of his duties or other reason accepted as sufficient by the Chief
Commissioner or such officer: or
(b)
neglect or refuse to perform his duties or wilfully perform them in a
manner which, in the opinion of the Chief Commissioner or such officer, is
120.
inefficient.
Power of the Government to declare emergency.- If the Government is of
the opinion that the stoppage or the cessation of the performance of any of the essential
services will be prejudicial to the safety or health or the maintenance of services essential
to the life of the community in the corporations, it may, by notification declare that an
emergency exists in the city and that in consequence thereof no member of such of the
essential services and for such period as may be specified in the notification,
notwithstanding any law for the time being in force or any agreement, shall,-
(a)
withdraw or absent himself from his duties except in the case of illness
or accident disabling him from the discharge of his duties, or
(b)
neglect or refuse to perform his duties or wilfully perform them in a
manner which in the opinion of such officer as the Government may specify in this
behalf, is inefficient.
Chapter X
POWER OF THE GOVERNMENT
121. Power of the Government to call for records and to cause inspection to
be made.-(1) The Government may at any time require the corporation or the Chief
Commissioner,-
(a)
to produce any record, proceedings, correspondence, plan, or
other document;
(b)
to furnish any return, plan, estimate, statement, account or
statistics relating to the proceedings, duties or works of the corporation or
any of the corporation authority;
(c)
to furnish or obtain and furnish, any report.
(2)
Any officer of the Government authorised by the Government in this
behalf by a general or a special order shall have power,
(a)
to enter on, and inspect, or cause to be entered on and inspect
any immovable property occupied by the Corporation or any institution
under its control or management or any work in progress under it or in its
direction;
(b)
to call for any extract from a proceeding of the Corporation or of
any committee or from any book or document in the possession of, or
under the control of corporation;
(c)
to require a corporation to take into consideration any objection
Page 50/159
----- PAGE 51 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
179.
which appears to him to exist to the doing of anything which is about to be
done or is being done by such corporation or any information which he is
able to furnish and which appears to him to necessitate the doing of a
certain thing by Corporation and to make a written reply to him within a
reasonable time stating its reasons for not desisting from doing or not doing
such thing.
(3)
The Corporation and every Corporation authority and all corporation
officers and other corporation employees shall be bound to afford the officer
authorised under subsection (2) access at all reasonable time to the premises and
properties of the corporation and to all records, accounts and other documents
the inspection of which he may consider necessary to enable him to discharge his
duties.
(4)
The officer authorised under sub-section (2) may, after such inspection,
122.
make a report to the Government.
Power of the Government to take action in respect of matters pending
undisposed of before the corporation.- (1) The Government may at any time call from
the Chief Commissioner the records relating to the business pending before the
corporation and on receipt of such records, it may examine the same.
(2)
If on such examination and after such enquiry as it thinks necessary, it
is found that in respect of any matter which is pending before the corporation for
more than three months from the date on which any such matter was brought
before the corporation or is pending before a standing committee for more than
sixty days after it was placed before it, urgent decision is necessary in the interest
of administration of the corporation, then the Government may, notwithstanding
anything in this Act,-
(i)
after giving the corporation notice of not less than fifteen days, pass
such orders with reference to such matter as it considers necessary; or
(ii)
direct that the matter pending before the standing committee shall
be deemed to be referred to the corporation and be disposed of on that
basis:
Provided that, no such notice shall be necessary in respect of any matter
pending before the corporation which is of public importance and the decision of
the Government whether the matter is of public importance or not, shall be final.
(3)
Every order passed by the Government under this section shall be
communicated to the Chief Commissioner who shall give effect to such order
123.
expeditiously as if such order is a resolution of the corporation.
The Government's power to direct the taking of action.- If, on receipt of
any information or report obtained under sections 121 and 122 or otherwise Government
is of opinion,-
(a)
that any duty imposed on any corporation authority by or under
this Act has not been performed or has been performed in an imperfect,
Page 51/159
----- PAGE 52 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
inefficient or unsuitable manner; or
(b)
that adequate financial provision has not been made for the
performance of any such duty, the Government may, after giving notice of
not less than fifteen days, by order, direct the corporation or the Chief
Commissioner within a period to be specified in the order, to make
arrangements to their satisfaction for the proper performance of the duty,
or to make financial provision to its satisfaction for the performance of the
duty, as the case may be, and the corporation or the Chief Commissioner
shall comply with such orders:
180.
Provided that no notice shall be necessary in urgent cases.
124. The Government's power to appoint an officer to take action in
default, at the expense of the corporation.- (1) If within the period fixed by an order
issued under section 123 any action directed under that section has not been duly
taken, the Government may, by order,-
(a)
appoint an officer of the Government to take the action so
directed;
(b)
fix the remuneration to be paid to him; and
(c)
direct that such remuneration and the cost of taking such action
shall be defrayed out of the corporation fund, and if necessary, that any
one or more of the taxes authorised by Chapter XIII of this Act shall be
levied or increased but not so as to exceed any maximum laid down in this
Act.
(2)
For the purpose of taking action directed as aforesaid, the officer
appointed under sub-section (1) shall have power to make such contracts as
are necessary and may exercise any of the powers conferred on any
Corporation authority by or under this Act and specified in this behalf in the
order issued under sub-section (1), and shall be entitled to protection under
this Act as if he were a Corporation authority.
(3)
The Government may, in addition to or instead of directing the levy
or increase of any of the said taxes, direct by notification that any sum or
money which may in their opinion be required for giving effect to their orders
be borrowed by debenture and on the security of all or any of the said taxes at
such rate of interest and upon such terms as to the time of repayment and
otherwise as may be specified in the notification.
(4)
The provisions of sections 184 to 189, 191, 192, 202 to 205 shall, as
125.
far as may be, apply to any loan raised in pursuance of this section.
Submission of copies of resolution to the Government and the
Government's power to cancel resolution and orders.-(1) The Chief Commissioner
shall submit to the Government copies of all resolutions of the corporation.
(2)
If the Government is of opinion that the execution of any resolution or
order of the corporation or of any other authority or officer subordinate thereto or
Page 52/159
----- PAGE 53 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
the doing of any act which is about to be done or is being done by or on behalf of
the corporation is in contravention of or in excess of the powers conferred by this
Act or of any other law for the time being in force or is likely to lead to a breach of
the peace or to cause injury or annoyance to the public or to any class or body of
persons or is prejudicial to the interest of the corporation it may by order in
writing, suspend the execution of such resolution or order, or prohibit the doing
of any such act after issuing a notice to the corporation to show cause within a
date to be specified which shall not to be less than fifteen days why,-
(a)
the resolution or order may not be cancelled in whole or in part, or
(b)
any bye-law or regulation concerned may not be repealed in whole or in
part.
(3)
Upon consideration of the reply, if any, received from the corporation
and after such enquiry as it thinks fit, the Government may pass orders
cancelling the resolution or order or repealing the bye-law or regulation and
communicate the same to the corporation.
(4)
The Government may at any time, on further representation by the
corporation or otherwise, revise, modify or revoke an order passed under sub-
181.
section (3).
126. Power of the Government to dissolve the corporation.- (1) If in the
opinion of the Government the corporation is not competent to perform or makes default
in the performance of any of the duties imposed on it or undertaken by it, by or under
this Act or any other law for the time being in force or exceeds or abuses its powers or
fails to carry out the directions or orders given by the Government to it under this Act or
any other law or is acting in a manner prejudicial to the interests of the corporation, the
Government may, by an order published, together with a statement of the reasons
therefor, in the official Gazette, declare the corporation to be incompetent or in default or
to have exceeded or abused its powers, or to have failed to carry out the directions given
to it, or to have acted in a manner prejudicial to the interests of the corporation, as the
case may be, and may dissolve it:
Provided that before making an order of dissolution as aforesaid
reasonable opportunity shall be given to the corporation to show cause why such
order should not be made.
(2)
When the corporation is dissolved by an order under sub-section (1), the
following consequences shall ensue,-
(a)
all the councillors of the corporation shall, on such date as may be specified in
the order, cease to hold office as such councillors without prejudice to their
eligibility for election under sub-section (8);
(b)
during the period of dissolution of the corporation, all powers and duties
conferred and imposed upon the corporation and the standing committees of the
corporation by or under this Act or any other law shall be exercised and performed
by an Administrator appointed by Government in that behalf;
(c)
all property vested in the corporation shall, until it is reconstituted, vest in
Page 53/159
----- PAGE 54 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
Government.
(3)
The Government may direct that the Administrator shall be a whole-time officer
and when such a direction is issued, he shall be paid out of the corporation funds such
monthly salary and allowances as Government may from time to time, by order,
determine and the corporation shall make such contribution towards the leave
allowances, pension and provident fund of the officer as may be required by the
conditions of service under the Government, to be paid by him or for him, as the case
may be.
(4)
During the period of dissolution of the corporation, references in any
enactment or law for the time being in force to the Mayor of the corporation shall be
construed as references to the Administrator appointed under section 127.
(5)
During the period of dissolution of the corporation, the Administrator shall in
the discharge of his functions be guided by such directions in matters of policy
involving Corporations public interest as the Government may by order specify; and if
any question arises whether a direction relates to a matter of policy involving public
interest the decision of the Government shall be final.
(6)
The Government may, by notification, appoint an advisory committee
consisting of not less than fifteen and not more then twenty-five persons who shall be
qualified to become councillors under this Act to assist the Administrator.
(7)
When the Corporation is dissolved it shall be reconstituted in the manner
182.
provided under this Act before the end of six months from the date of such dissolution:
Provided that where the remainder of the period for which the dissolved
Corporation would have continued is less than six months it shall not be necessary to
hold an election under this section for constituting a Corporation for such period.
(8)
A corporation constituted upon the dissolution before the expiration of its
duration shall continue only for the remainder of the period for which the dissolved
corporation would have continued had it not been so dissolved.
(9)
An order of dissolution of the corporation under sub-section (1) together with a
statement of the reasons therefor shall be laid before both Houses of the State
127.
Legislature as soon as may be after it is made.
Appointment of Corporation Administrator.- (1)An election to constitute
the Corporation shall be completed before the expiration of a period of six months from
the date of its dissolution.
(2)
When the Corporation is dissolved, the Government shall, by
notification, appoint an administrator, for such period as may be specified in the
notification and may, by the said notification, either curtail or extend the period
of such appointment, as may be necessary.
(3)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, on the appointment of
an Administrator under this section, during the period of such appointment, the
corporation and all authorities working under the Corporation charged with
Page 54/159
----- PAGE 55 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
carrying out the provisions of this Act or any other law, shall cease to exercise
any powers and perform and discharge any duties or functions conferred or
imposed on them by or under this Act or any other law, and all such powers shall
be exercised and all such duties and functions shall be performed and discharged
by the Administrator or by other officers Authorised by the Administrator.
(4)
The Administrator appointed under this Act shall be paid out of the
corporation funds such monthly salary and allowances as Government may from
time to time, by order, determine and the corporation shall make such
contribution towards the leave allowances, pension and provident fund of the
officer as may be required by the conditions of service under the Government, to
be paid by him or for him, as the case may be.
(5)
From the date of dissolution of the corporation, the Administrator shall
in the discharge of his functions be guided by such directions in matters of policy
involving public interest as the Government may by order specify; and if any
question arises whether a direction relates to a matter of policy involving public
128.
interest, the decision of the Government shall be final.
Establishment of performance management system - (1) The
Corporation shall establish a performance management system to improve the
effectiveness of its officers and for the overall improvement of the management of the
Corporation and also establish mechanisms to monitor and review its performance.
(2)
The Government may help the Corporation in developing the performance
management system for the Corporation and submit the proposed system to the
Corporation for adoption.
(3)
The performance management system of the Corporation shall,-
(a)
set appropriate key performance indicators as a yardstick for
measuring performance, including outcomes and impact, with regard to the
Corporation development priorities and objectives;
(b)
set measurable performance targets with regard to each of those
183.
development priorities and objectives;
(c)
measure and review the actual performance against the set
performance indicators and targets;
(d)
take steps to improve performance with regard to those development
priorities and objectives where performance targets are not met; and
(e)
establish a process of regular reporting to the Mayor, Chief
Commissioner or Zonal Commissioner as the case may be.
(4)
The Corporation shall publish the performance indicators in public domain
and ensure its integration for the purposes of promotion of any of its officers.
Chapter XI
PROPERTY OF THE CORPORATION
Page 55/159
----- PAGE 56 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
129. Property of the corporation.-(1)The following properties shall belong to the
corporation unless specifically owned and controlled by the Government:
(a)
All public parks, playground and open spaces reserved for
ventilation; and
(b)
All public lamps, lamp post apparatus connected therewith
appertaining thereto, all gates, markets, slaughterhouses, manure and refuge
depots and public buildings of every description.
(2)
All properties specified under this section and not specifically owned
and controlled by the Government under the section shall belong to the
corporation and be subject to such direction, management and control of the
130.
corporation.
Disposal of property by the corporation.-(1)Subject to the provisions of
this Act, the Chief Commissioner may dispose of by sale any immovable property of the
corporation with prior approval of the Government or enter into such lease for the
utilization of any right over such produce or benefit emerging from such immovable
property.
(2)
The Chief Commissioner may dispose of by sale any immovable
property of the corporation with prior sanction of the Government.
(3)
Any sale of immovable property by the Chief Commissioner shall be
by way of public auction, the procedure of which shall be prescribed.
(4)
The Chief Commissioner may lease such immovable properties of the
corporation for a term not exceeding five years with the previous sanction of the
concerned standing committee.
(5)
The Chief Commissioner may lease such immovable properties of the
corporation for a term between five and fifteen years with the previous sanction of
the Council.
(6)
If the term of any lease sought to be entered by the corporation is
above fifteen years, the Chief Commissioner may enter into such lease agreement
with the prior approval of the Government.
(7)
No sale or lease shall be undertaken by the corporation without
seeking the view of the concerned zonal committee.
(8)
The corporation shall specify such conditions for sale and lease,
which shall be the basis for any approval that may be accorded by the standing
131.
committee or the mayor under the section.
Acquisition of the property by the corporation.-(1)The Chief
184.
Commissioner if on behalf of the corporation seeks to acquire any immovable property,
the Chief Commissioner may do so provided such intent of acquisition is approved by the
mayor.
Page 56/159
----- PAGE 57 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
(2)
Any acquisition that may be undertaken as per sub section (1) shall be
in accordance with the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land
132.
Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013 (Central Act 30 of 2013).
Properties of the Government managed by the corporation.-(1)The
Government may transfer any land or property belonging to itself to the corporation for
its management upon such terms and conditions that the Government may determine
from time to time.
(2)
In the event that the Government is of the opinion that its properties
are not being managed satisfactorily by the corporation or it has contravened
such prescribed terms and conditions of management, the Government may
133.
transfer such properties to itself.
Power of the Government to manage the corporation property.-(1) If the
corporation is unable to manage any immovable property belonging to itself, the Chief
Commissioner may, with the prior approval of the mayor, request the Government to
manage such properties.
(2)
The Government, if it is of the opinion that the corporation has failed
to manage any property belonging to itself, shall have the power to issue
directions to the corporation to transfer such properties to the Government.
(3)
The Government may, by notification and after consultation with the
corporation, take over for a public purpose any land or other property, movable or
immovable, belonging to or vesting in the corporation on such terms as it may
134.
determine.
Decision of claims to the property by or against the corporation.-
(1)
Where any property is claimed by or on behalf of the corporation or by any
person as against the corporation it shall be lawful for the Regional Commissioner of
Bengaluru after enquiry of which due notice has been given, to pass an order deciding
the claims.
(2)
Any person aggrieved by an order made under sub-section (1) may
appeal to the Karnataka Appellate Tribunal, and the decision of the Tribunal shall
be final.
(3)
Any person shall be deemed to have had due notice of an enquiry or
135.
order under this section if the notice has been given in the prescribed manner.
Power of the Corporation to manage private property.-The corporation
may, upon the request of such private persons, companies, trusts, societies and any
other association, maintain such properties belonging to them on such conditions as
136.
may be prescribed from time to time.
Maintenance of the property register.-(1)The Chief Commissioner shall
maintain a property register of the corporation, which shall consist of a list of immovable
properties under the ownership, control or management of the corporation, location and
Page 57/159
----- PAGE 58 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
such other details as may be specified.
(2)
The zonal commissioner shall maintain a property register of the
concerned zone, comprising details of such immovable property and update such
list periodically and convey to the Chief Commissioner that such updation may be
carried out in the property register of the corporation.
(3)
The corporation may, in accordance with such by law or rules
applicable, appoint such officers for each zone for carrying out day to day
administration, management and such other responsibilities required for the
185.
efficient management of the immovable property of the corporation.
(4)
The corporation shall undertake a survey of list of immovable
properties under its ownership, management or control every fifth year from the
date of notification of this Act in the Official Gazette and publish such survey in
137.
the public domain in a manner as may be specified.
Objects not provided for by this Act.- The Government may with the
consent of the corporation transfer to the corporation the management of any institution
or the execution of any work not provided for by this Act and it shall thereupon be lawful
for the corporation to undertake such management or execution:
Provided that, in every such case the funds required, for such management
or execution shall be placed at the disposal of the corporation by the Government.
Chapter XII
CONTRACTS
138. Power of the corporation to enter into contracts.-(1)The corporation may
enter into any contract and perform any obligation specified under the contract for the
purposes of carrying out into effect provisions of this Act.
(2)
Subject to the rules made in this behalf, the following provisions
shall apply with respect to the making of contract for any of the purposes of this
Act, namely:-
(a)
Every contract concerning the affairs of a particular zone shall
be made on behalf of the corporation by the Zonal Commissioners for
amounts not exceeding five crores;
(b)
Every contract concerning the affairs of the entire corporation,
pertaining to the affairs of a particular zone exceeding the amount five
crores and pertaining to such affairs, which overlaps two or more zones,
shall be made on behalf of the corporation by the Chief Commissioner;
(c)
Subject to delegation of power no contract shall be entered into
by the Zonal Commissioner without the prior approval of the zonal
committee;
(d)
Subject to delegation of power no contract shall be entered into
by the Chief Commissioner without the prior approval of the Mayor; and
(e)
No contract shall be entered by the corporation without
Page 58/159
----- PAGE 59 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
following such procedure as may be prescribed and the provisions of the
29. Karnataka Transparency in Public Procurements Act, 1999 (Karnataka Act
of 2000).
(3)
The procedure prescribed under this section shall apply if the
corporation chooses to amend the terms of the contract or vary the price of such
contract.
(4)
The corporation shall make available a common seal, which shall be
affixed on every contract entered into by the Chief Commissioner or the Zonal
Commissioner on behalf of the corporation.
(5)
No contract executed otherwise than as provided under this section
139.
shall be binding on the corporation.
Invitation of tenders.-All tenders received by the corporation shall be
processed in accordance with the procedure prescribed under the Karnataka
140.
Transparency in Public Procurement Act 1999 [Karnataka Act 29 of 2000].
Preparation of model tender document.-The corporation shall prepare a
model tender document, which shall identify key terms of each tender and such a model
tender shall be followed by all corporation authorities prior to the commissioning of any
186.
work.
141. Maintenance of database.- (1) The Chief Commissioner and the Zonal
Commissioner shall maintain a register of contracts entered into by the corporation in
such formats as may be prescribed.
(2)
The contract register maintained under subsection (1) shall be made
available in public domain, in such format prescribed, and updated periodically.
Chapter XIII
TAXES
142. Taxes which may be imposed.-(1) Subject to general and specific orders of
the Government, the corporation may impose the following taxes at rates not exceeding
those specified in the Act,-
(a)
A tax on buildings or vacant land or both situated in the
jurisdiction of the corporation.
(b)
A tax on profession, trades, callings and employments.
(c)
A tax on entertainments and amusements.
(d)
A duty on certain transfers of property in the form of additional
stamp duty.
(e)
Any other taxes which may be assigned by law for the
assessment and collection by the Corporation.
(2)
The corporation shall, by way of resolution passed at a general
meeting of the council, determine the classes of person or properties or entities
Page 59/159
----- PAGE 60 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
which shall be assessed for tax and the rate of such tax.
(3)
The Corporation may, at any time for sufficient reason, suspend,
modify or abolish any existing tax:
Provided that, the Government may, by notification, require the
Corporation to impose any tax specified in the notification as may be imposed
under this section in such manner and to such extent as the Government
considers fit.
(4)
Every resolution passed by the council under subsection (2) shall be
143.
published in the public domain for the notice of all the concerned.
Levy of cesses.- (1) The corporation may, in addition to the tax levied
under this Act, levy and collect the following cesses namely:-
(a)
Infrastructure cess at such rate but not exceeding ten percent as
notified by the Government, which may be prescribed on every motor vehicle
suitable for the use on roads within the city and different rates may be prescribed
in different classes of motor vehicles;
(b)
Solid waste management cess at such rate but not exceeding ten
percent of the property tax as notified by the Government, on every owner or
occupier of land or building or both in the city for the purpose of collection,
transportation and disposal of solid waste and different rates may be prescribed
in different classes of lands or buildings or in different areas; and
(c)
Levy Urban Transport Cess at such rate as notified by the
Government;
(2)
All monies collected in form of cess shall be credited to a separate head
of account and shall be known as the respective cess fund.
(3 )The cess levied under subsection (1) shall be accessed and collected in
such manner as may be prescribed.
(4)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this section, any person
187.
aggrieved by the levy and assessment of cess under the section may, within thirty
days from the receipt of the order of the assessment, may appeal against such
144.
order before the tribunal.
Description and class of tax on buildings or land or both.-(1) A tax on
buildings or land or both shall be levied by the Corporation, by way of a resolution, at
such rates not exceeding, ten percent of the taxable annual value,-
(a)
for residential buildings,-
(b)
for commercial buildings
(c)
for vacant land
(2)
The rate of tax on buildings or land or both determined by the
Page 60/159
----- PAGE 61 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
Corporation by resolution under sub section (1) shall stand enhanced every year
by five percent.
(3)
The tax on buildings or vacant land or both shall be paid by the
owners of such property. The tax on buildings or vacant lands or both shall be
subject to the prior payment of the land revenue, if any, due thereon to the
Government as a first charge upon the said buildings or vacant lands or both and
upon the movable property, if any, found within or upon such buildings or lands
and belonging to the person liable to such tax.
(4)
Notwithstanding anything contrary contained in this Act, subject to
such exemptions provided under this Act and such rules as may be prescribed,
the property tax of all buildings or vacant lands or both situated within the city of
Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike area shall be levied every year in the
following manner.
(5)
The property tax shall be levied by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara
Palike by resolution passed at such percentage not not more than ten percent of
the taxable annual value of a building, vacant land or both. The taxable annual
value of a building, vacant land or both shall be calculated by multiplying the
corresponding ?unit area value? with the total built-up area of a building, vacant
land or both for ten months, minus depreciation of three percent per year
depending on the age of a building.
Explanation.- For the purpose of this section, ?Unit Area Value? means an
average rate of expected returns from the property per sq.ft., per month
determined by the Chief Commissioner, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike on
the basis of the average market rate determined through mass appraisal method
or real estate market information or any other reliable source or combination of
these sources that he may considers it as sufficient and reasonable having regard
to the location, type of construction of the building, nature of use to which the
vacant land or building is put, area of the vacant land, built-up area of the
building, age of the building, parking area of vehicles in non-residential building
where it is charged and such other criteria as may be prescribed. Different rates
may be determined for different area or street by classifying into zones, different
nature of use to which the vacant land or building is put and for different class of
buildings and vacant lands:
Provided that, no such ?unit area value? shall come into force unless it is
previously published in the official Gazette for the information of the persons
likely to be affected and an opportunity is provided to make representation or
suggestions, if any, in this regard:
Provided further that, the land appurtenant to a building to the extent not
exceeding thrice the area occupied by such building shall be exempted from the
188.
property tax:
Provided also that, subject to such condition and in such circumstances as
may be notified, the Chief Commissioner, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike,
may, in lieu of the tax under sub-section (2), fix any lumpsum amount as annual
tax, irrespective of zonal classification, in respect of,-
(a)
a built-up area having less than 300 sq.ft., in a slum area
declared as such by the Karnataka Slum Clearance Board or the Chief
Page 61/159
----- PAGE 62 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
Commissioner, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike; and
(b)
an area used as parking area in a non-residential building and
being charged for its use by the owner or the occupier.
(c)
any other class of building or structure as he deems fit.
(6)
The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike may levy and collect the
property tax from every building, vacant land or both including a building
constructed in violation of the provisions of building byelaw or in an
unauthorized layout or in a revenue land or from a building occupied without
issuance of occupancy or completion certificate except the building constructed
illegally in Government land, land belonging to any local body, any statutory body
or an organization owned or controlled by the Government. The property tax
collected from such building shall be double the tax payable which shall be
maintained in a separate register:
Provided that levy and collection of property tax under this sub-section from such
building does not confer any right to regularise violation made, or title, ownership or
legal status to such building. Such buildings shall always be liable for any action for
violation of law in accordance with the provisions of this Act or any other law.
(7)
The property tax payable shall be reduced by fifty percent in respect of a
self occupied building used for residential purpose and such class of self
occupied nonresidential building as may be notified by the Government on the
recommendation of the Corporation.
(8)
The person primarily liable to pay the property tax, shall pay the tax in
30th.
two equal instalments through demand draft or E-Payment. The first being before
May and second by 29th November of each financial year. However, the
owner or occupier or person primarily liable to pay property tax may choose to
pay in one installment:
Provided that if the owner or occupier who is liable to pay property tax files
return and also pays property tax for the whole year, within one month from the
date of commencement of each year he shall be allowed a rebate of five per cent
on the tax payable by him:
Provided further that the Government may on the recommendation of the
Corporation by notification extend the time limit for payment of property tax
without penalty and for the benefit of Five percent rebate in respect of any
financial year.
Provided also that subject to random scrutiny as may be prescribed, the tax
return filed for the first time or the year in which guidance value of property has
34.
been revised under section 45B of the Karnataka Stamp Act 1957 (Karnataka Act
of 1957) shall form the base for payment of tax applicable during each block
year.
(9)
Before any owner or occupier submits any return under sub-section (7),
he shall pay in advance half-yearly tax calculated or the full amount of the
property tax payable by him for the year on the basis of such return declared by
189.
Page 62/159
----- PAGE 63 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
him as being true and complete.
(10)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act the Government may
prescribe the form and the manner in which every owner or occupier who is liable
to pay the property tax under this Act shall submit a return every year to the
Chief Commissioner, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike or to the officer or
agency authorized by him in this behalf.
(11)
In order to facilitate filing of return by an owner or occupier of any
building or vacant land or both and assessment of property tax under this
section, the Chief Commissioner shall from time to time issue guidelines for
determining the unit area value and property tax payable thereon.
(12)
Every return filed by a owner or occupier of a residential building other
than commercial building shall be deemed to have been assessed to tax except in
cases where the Chief Commissioner or authorised officer may take-up or
authorise subordinate officers of not less than ten percent of the cases for
random scrutiny of the returns filed in the manner prescribed:
Provided that, the Chief Commissioner may suo moto or otherwise has
reason to believe that there is an evasion of tax by the owner or occupier, he may
cause inspection of such building and assess the tax.
(13)
For the purpose of random scrutiny of the return filed or in cases where
returns are not filed as required under sub-section (7) in respect of any buildings
or lands or both, the Chief Commissioner or any person authorized by him in this
behalf may enter, inspect, survey or measure any land or building after giving
notice to the owner or occupier and the owner or occupier shall be bound to
furnish necessary information required and based on such inspection and
information collected, he shall assess the property tax subject to sub-section (5)
and send a copy of the order of assessment to the owner or occupier concerned.
Such entry into and upon any building or vacant land shall be made between
sunrise and sunset.
(14)
If the occupier of the property, refuses to allow the authorised officer to
enter to inspect the premises, the officer after giving reasonable opportunity shall
record the refusal and shall proceed to assess the property to the best of his
judgement:
Provided that in the case of buildings used as human dwelling due regard
shall be paid to the social and religious customs of the occupiers and no
apartment in the actual occupancy of a woman shall be entered until she has
been informed that she is at liberty to withdraw and every reasonable facility has
been afforded to her for withdrawing.
(15)
Upon random scrutiny, if the authorized officer has reasons to believe
that any return furnished, which is deemed as assessed, is incorrect or has been
under assessed resulting in evasion of property tax,-
(a)
may, on the basis of information available on record and after
physical inspection proceed to re-assess the property, in the manner
provided under this section;
(b)
Page 63/159
----- PAGE 64 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
if the tax-reassessed is more than Five percent than the tax
remitted along with the returns, the evaded tax shall be payable together
with a penalty of not less than twice the tax so evaded payable alongwith
interest for the difference in tax paid and payable calculated at nine
percent per annum;
(c)
if upon inspection and re-assessment as made under this section
by the Chief Commissioner or the authorized officer, shall issue a notice of
190.
re-assessment to the tax payer demanding that the tax shall be paid
within thirty days of the service of the notice and after giving the tax payer
the opportunity of show cause in writing;
(d)
the owner or occupier may either accept the property tax assessed
and the penalty levied or send objections to the Chief Commissioner or the
authorized officer within a period of thirty days from the date of receipt of
a copy of the notice under this sub-section;
(e)
the Chief Commissioner or the authorized officer shall consider
the objections and pass such orders either confirming or revising such
assessment within a period of sixty days from the date of filing objections
and a copy of the order shall be sent to the owner or occupier concerned.
(16)
An assessment or re-assessment under this section shall not be made
after the following time limits,-
(i)
Five years after filing the tax return under this section;
(ii)
Five years after the evidence of facts, sufficient in the opinion of the
Chief Commissioner or the authorized officer to justify making of the re-
assessment, comes to its knowledge, whichever is later.
(17)
In computing the period of limitation specified for assessment or re-
assessment, as the case may be under this Act, the period taken for disposal of
any appeal against an assessment or other proceedings by the Appellate
authority, a tribunal or competent court shall not be taken into account for
assessment or re-assessment as the case may be:
Provided that in case of any change of use, alteration or variation to the
property, the owner or occupier shall report such changes within six months from
the date of completion or occupation whichever is earlier along with the revised
return and tax:
Provided also that nothing contained in this section shall be deemed to
affect the power of the Government to direct an earlier revision of property tax.
(18)
The Chief Commissioner shall have power to clarify any doubt as to
classification of zones, unit area value and class of property. The decision of the
chief Commissioner in this regard shall be final.
(19)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, a concession in
payment of tax on building or vacant land or both, wherein any such socially or
ecologically beneficial scheme, as may be identified for the purposes of this
Page 64/159
----- PAGE 65 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
section by the corporation or the Government, is being implemented, may be
given to such extent not more than fifty percent of the tax payable in respect
thereof as the Corporation may determine.
Explanation.-For the purposes of this section, ?ecologically beneficial
scheme? includes rain water harvesting system, vermi composting, use of solar
energy and other non-conventional sources of energy, recycling and reuse of
waste water, or any other scheme for promoting environment friendly and
ecologically beneficial building construction or the like as the Corporation or the
Government may identify.
(20)
The Corporation shall provide each person who pays property tax an
acknowledgement or Khata for the payment of such tax, and such
acknowledgement or Khata provided shall be distinct for lawful and unlawful
buildings or vacant land and the format of such acknowledgement or Khata shall
be prescribed from time to time under the rules.
(21)
The Chief Commissioner shall maintain a record, in such format as may
191.
be prescribed, which shall contain the details of the lawful buildings or vacant
lands and unlawful buildings or vacant lands which have been taxed under this
section.
(22)
The Chief Commissioner shall also maintain a list of defaulters in
payment of property tax and publish the same on website of the corporation.
(23)
For the purposes of maintenance of records under sub section (22), the
Chief Commissioner may issue such directions to the zonal commissioner as
required and also direct the maintenance of such records by each zonal
145. committee.
Publication of resolution with notice.- The corporation shall by a
resolution passed at a general meeting levy any tax specified in section 142 or any cess
in section 143 specified in section and in such resolution specify the classes of persons
or properties which shall be made liable and the amount or rate at which the tax or cess
shall be levied. When such a resolution has been passed the corporation shall publish a
notice of such resolution in the notice board of its office and by advertisement in local
newspapers. The publication of such notice shall be conclusive evidence that the tax or
cess has been imposed in accordance with the provisions of this Act and the rules made
146. thereunder.
Power to suspend, reduce or abolish any existing tax or cess.- (1) The
corporation may, at any time for sufficient reason suspend, modify or abolish any
existing tax or cess.
(2)
The provisions of this Chapter relating to the imposition of taxes shall
apply so far may be to the suspension, modification or abolition of any tax or
147. cess.
Payment of property tax.- (1)The owner of the building or vacant land or
both shall pay the tax either in one installment or in two equal installments, within such
time periods as notified by the corporation from time to time.
(2)
The corporation shall have the power to extend such notified time
period under sub section (1) and waive such penalty payable due to delayed
Page 65/159
----- PAGE 66 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
payment.
(3)
Any person owner of the building or vacant land or both who is
required to pay tax shall submit a self-assessed return, in such format as may be
prescribed, within those time periods notified under sub section (1) to the Chief
Commissioner or to such officer or agency authorized by him in this behalf.
(4)
In order to facilitate the filing of return by an owner or occupier, the
corporation shall issue such guidelines for the ease of calculation of the payable
tax and the Chief Commissioner shall direct zonal commissioners of the
corporation to establish such help centres within the zonal committee as may be
148. necessary.
Demand for the payment of tax and recovery of taxes.- (1) If the tax
including the penalty payable under this chapter is not paid after it has become due, the
Corporation may cause to be served upon the person liable for the payment of the same,
a notice of demand in such form as may be prescribed.
(2)
If a person seeks to appeal against the demand notice issued by the
Chief Commissioner or any person authorized by him, such person may file an
appeal before the Tribunal in such manner as may be prescribed.
(3)
Any person seeking to file an appeal under sub-section (2) shall
deposit fifty percent of the demanded amount with the Tribunal.
(4)
If the person to whom a notice of demand has been served under sub
section (1) does not pay the tax within thirty days from the service of such
192.
demand, in the absence of any stay issued by Tribunal or any court on the
demand notice, the Chief Commissioner may recover by distraint under his
warrant and sale of the such movable property of the defaulter or if the defaulter
is the occupier of the building by distress and sale of any movable property which
may be found in or on such building or land, the amount due on account of tax
together with the warrant fee and distraint fee and with such further sums as will
satisfy the probable charges, that will be incurred in connection with the
detention and of the sale of property so distrained.
(5)
If, for any reason the distraint, or a sufficient distraint of the
defaulter's property cannot be effected, the Chief Commissioner may attach the
bank account or the immovable property of the defaulter in such manner as may
be prescribed, till the recovery of the property tax due. The Chief Commissioner
may move the competent court to absolute the attachment order made by him.
Further the Chief Commissioner may prosecute the defaulter before a competent
149. court.
Obligation of transferor and transferee to give notice of transfer.-(1)
Whenever the title of any person primarily liable for the payment of the tax on any
premises to or over such premises is transferred, the person whose title is transferred
and the person to whom the same is transferred shall, within three months after the
execution of the instrument of transfer or after its registration, if it be registered or after
the transfer is effected, if no instrument be executed, give notice of such transfer to the
Chief Commissioner in such format as may be prescribed.
(2)
Page 66/159
----- PAGE 67 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
In the event of the death of any person primarily liable as aforesaid,
the person to whom the title of the deceased shall be transferred as heir or
otherwise shall give notice of such transfer to the Chief Commissioner within one
year from the death of the deceased.
(3)
Whenever such transfer comes to the knowledge of the Chief
Commissioner or authorised officer through such notice, the name of the
transferee shall be entered in the property tax register.
(4)
Every person who makes a transfer as aforesaid without giving such
notice to the Chief Commissioner shall, in addition to any other liability which he
may incur through such neglect, continue to be liable for the payment of the
property tax assessed on the premises transferred until he gives notice or until
the transfer shall have been recorded in the corporation registers, but nothing in
this section shall be held to affect:
(a)
The liability of the transferee for the payment of the said tax, or
(b)
The prior charge of the corporation
(5)
Where the Chief Commissioner, either suomotu or otherwise, after
such enquiry as he considers necessary, is satisfied that any transfer of title was
recorded in the Corporation register by fraud or suppression of facts or by
furnishing false, incorrect or incomplete material, may within a period of three
years from the date of such recording of transfer of title, reopen the case and pass
such order with respect thereto as he thinks fit:
Provided that, no such order shall be made except after giving the person
likely to be affected thereby a reasonable opportunity of being heard.
(6)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, in respect of any
building or land belonging to the Bengaluru Development Authority or the
Karnataka Housing Board or any local authority the possession of which has
been delivered to any person in pursuance of any grant, allotment or lease by the
193.
Board or local authority concerned, the transfer of title of any person primarily
liable to the payment of property tax shall not be recorded in the corporation
150. registers without consulting the Board or local authority concerned.
Review by the Chief Commissioner.- Where the Chief Commissioner,
either suomotu or otherwise, after such enquiry as he considers necessary is satisfied
that any transfer of title under section 149 was got recorded in the Corporation register
by fraud, misrepresentation, or suppression of facts or by furnishing false, incorrect or
incomplete material, he may within a period of three years from the date of such
recording of transfer of title reopen the case and pass such order with respect thereto as
he thinks fit:
Provided that, no such order shall be made except after giving the person
151. likely to be affected thereby a reasonable opportunity of being heard.
Owner's obligation to give notice of construction or re-construction or
demolition of building.- (1) If any building in the city is constructed or reconstructed,
the owner shall give notice thereof to the Chief Commissioner, within fifteen days from
the date of completion or occupation of the building whichever is earlier.
(2)
Page 67/159
----- PAGE 68 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
If any building in the city is demolished or destroyed, the owner shall,
until notice thereof is given to the Chief Commissioner, be liable for the payment
of the property tax for which he would have been liable had the building not been
152. demolished or destroyed.
General exemptions.- (1) The following buildings and lands shall be
exempted from the property tax:-
(a)
places set apart for public worship and either actually so used or used
for no other purposes;
(b)
choultries for the occupation of which no rent is charged.
(c)
places used for the charitable purpose of sheltering the destitute or
animals and orphanages, homes and schools for the deaf and dumb, asylum for
the aged and fallen women and such similar institutions run purely on
philanthropic lines as are approved by Government;
(d)
such ancient monuments protected under the Karnataka Ancient and
Historical Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1961
(Karnataka Act 7 of 1962) and the Ancient Monuments and Archeological Sites
and Remains Act, 1958 (Central Act 24 of 1958) or parts thereof as are not used
as residential quarters or public offices;
(e)
charitable hospitals and dispensaries but not including residential
quarters attached thereto;
(f)
such hospitals and dispensaries maintained by railway administrations
as may from time to time be notified by Government, but not including residential
quarters attached thereto;
(g)
burial and cremation grounds included in the list published by the chief
Commissioner;
(h)
the Government lands set apart for free recreational purposes and all
such other Government land as may be notified by it, from which in the opinion of
the Government no income could be derived;
(i)
building or lands exclusively used for,-
(a)
students hostels which are not established or conducted for
profit;
(b)
educational purposes by Government or Local Authority
194.
educational institutions;
(c)
the offices of Labour Associations registered under the Trade
Union Act, 1926 (Central Act 16 of 1926) and belonging to such
Association;
(j)
buildings or lands belonging to the Central Government or any State
Page 68/159
----- PAGE 69 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
Government used for purposes of Government and not used or intended to be
used for residential or commercial purposes;
(k)
buildings or lands belonging to any Urban Development Authority
constituted under the Karnataka Urban Development Authorities Act, 1987 , the
Bangalore Development Authority, the Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage
Board the Karnataka Housing Board or any local authority the possession of
which has not been delivered to any person, in pursuance of any grant, allotment
or lease;
(l)
land which is registered as land used for agricultural purposes in the
revenue accounts of the Government and is actually used for the cultivation of
crops:
Provided that nothing contained in clauses (a), (c) and (e) shall be deemed to
exempt from property tax, any building or vacant land for which rent is payable by the
person or person using the same for the purposes referred to in the said clauses:
Provided further that for purpose of clause (j), a certificate issued by Government
or any officer duly authorised by Government that any building or vacant land is used for
purposes of Government and not used or intended to be used for residential or
commercial purposes shall be binding on the corporation.
(2)
Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing provisions of this
Chapter, the Corporation may exempt fifty percent of the property tax on any one of the
land or building belonging to an ex-serviceman or family of a deceased ex-serviceman, in
the manner as may be prescribed.
Explanation.- For the purpose of this sub-section,-
(a)
?ex-serviceman? means a person who has served in any rank in the regular
Army, Navy and Air Force of the Union and includes a person who has served in Defence
Security Corps, the General Reserve Engineering Force, the Lok Sahayak Sena and Para
Military Forces;
(b)
?family of the deceased ex-serviceman? means the father, mother, the
surviving spouse and minor children of the deceased ex-serviceman:
Provided that, in respect of a building, it must be used by the ex-
serviceman or member of the family of a deceased ex-serviceman for the purpose
of their residence:
Provided further that, the ex-serviceman or his family as the case may be shall
submit a certificate from Sainik Welfare Board, Karnataka that he,-
(i)
is an ex-serviceman or as the case may be he is a member of the family of
the deceased ex-serviceman;
(ii)
is a permanent resident of Karnataka; and
(iii)
is residing in such building.
195
(3)
Notwithstanding the exemptions granted under this section it shall be open to
the corporation to collect service charges for providing civic amenities and for general or
153. special services rendered at such rates as may be prescribed.
Page 69/159
----- PAGE 70 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
Property tax from whom and when payable.- (1) Subject to the provisions
of sub-section (2), the property tax shall be primarily payable as follows, namely:-
(a)
if the premises are held immediately from the Government or the corporation,
from the actual occupier thereof:
Provided that the property tax due in respect of premises owned by the
Government and occupied by any person on payment of rent, shall be payable by the
Government:
Provided further that no property tax shall be payable in respect of premises
owned by the Corporation and occupied by any person on payment of rent.
(b)
if the premises are not so held,-
(i)
from the lessor if the premises are let;
(ii)
from the superior lessor is the premises are sub-let;
(iii)
from the person in whom the right to let the premises vests, if they are
unlet.
(2)
If any land has been let for any term exceeding one year to a tenant and such
tenant or any person deriving title howsoever from such tenant has built upon the land,
the property tax assessed upon the said land and upon the building erected thereon
shall be primarily payable by the said tenant or such person whether or not the premises
154. be in the occupation of the said tenant or the person.
Preparation and publication of property tax register.-(1) A property tax
register in respect of buildings or lands or both in the city shall be maintained in such
form and in such manner as may be prescribed.
(2)
The authorised officer may on an application made by any person and subject
to payment of such fees as may be specified by the corporation from time to time, permit
such person to inspect the property tax register at reasonable hours or grant certified
extract of the entries in the register or certified copies thereof.
(3)
The Chief Commissioner or the authorised officer may issue a property tax
certificate to every owner or occupier of building or lands, containing all the details of,
buildings or lands or both and the property tax payable in relation to such buildings or
155. lands or both.
Survey of lands and buildings and preparation of property register.- (1)
The Chief Commissioner shall, subject to the general or special orders of the
Government, direct a survey of buildings or lands or both within the city with a view to
the assessment of property tax and may obtain the services of any qualified person or
agency for conducting such survey and preparation of property register.
(2)
A property register shall be maintained in such manner and containing such
particulars in respect of buildings or lands or both as may be prescribed.
(3)
For the purpose of preparation of property register or assessment of property
tax in respect of any buildings or lands or both, the Chief Commissioner or any person
authorised by him in this behalf may enter, inspect, survey or measure any land or
building after giving notice to the owner or occupier before such inspection and the
Page 70/159
----- PAGE 71 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
owner or occupier shall be bound to furnish necessary information required for the
196.
purpose:
Provided that such entry into and upon any building or land shall be made
between sunrise and sunset:
Provided further that in the case of buildings used as human dwelling due regard
shall be paid to the social and religious customs of the occupiers and no apartment in
the actual occupancy of a woman shall be entered until she has been informed that she
is at liberty to withdraw and every reasonable facility has been afforded to her for
156. withdrawing.
Demand for payment of property tax and appeal against such demand.-
(1)
If the property tax including penalty leviable under section 148, is not paid after it has
been become due, the corporation may cause to be served upon the person liable for
payment of the same a notice of demand in such form as may be prescribed.
(2)
If the person to whom a notice of demand has been served under sub-section
(1)
does not, within thirty days from the service of such notice of demand either,-
(a)
pays the sum demanded in the notice; or
(b)
prefers an appeal under sub-section (3) against the demand, he shall be
deemed to be in default and thereupon such sum shall be recovered along with
such penalty and in such manner as may be prescribed.
(3)
Notwithstanding anything contained in section 144, any person disputing the
claim in the notice of demand served under sub-section (1), may within thirty days after
the service of such notice, appeal in such manner subject to such conditions and to such
157. authority as may be prescribed.
Fee on advertisement.- Every person who erects, exhibits, fixes or retains,
upon or over any land, building, wall or structure any advertisement or who displays any
advertisement to public view in any manner whatsoever, in any place whether public or
private, shall pay on every advertisement which is so erected, exhibited, fixed, retained or
displayed to public view, a fee calculated at such rates and in such manner and subject
to such exemptions, as the corporation may, with the approval of the Government, by
resolution determine:
Provided always that the rates shall be subject to the maxima and minima
laid down by the Government in this behalf:
Provided further that no fee shall be levied under this section on any
advertisement or a notice,-
(a)
of a public meeting, or corporation of the city, or
(b)
of an election to any legislative body, or
(c)
of a candidature in respect of such an election:
Provided also that no such fee shall be levied on any advertisement which
is not a sky-sign and which,-
(a)
is exhibited within the window of any building; or
Page 71/159
----- PAGE 72 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
(b)
relates to the trade or business carried on within the land or
building upon or over which such advertisement is exhibited, or to any sale
or letting of such land or building or any effects therein or to any sale,
entertainment or meeting to be held upon or in such land or building; or
(c)
relates to the name of the land or building, upon or over which the
advertisement is exhibited, or to the name of the owner or occupier of such
land or building; or
(d)
relates to the business of any railways; or
(e)
is exhibited within any railway station or upon any wall or other
property of a railway except any portion of the surface of such wall or
197.
property fronting any street.
Explanation 1.- The word 'structure' in this section shall include any
movable board on wheels used as an advertisement or an advertisement medium.
Explanation 2.- The expression 'sky-sign' shall, in this section, mean any
advertisement, supported on or attached to any post, pole, standard, frame work
or other support wholly or in part upon or over any land, building, wall or
structure which, or any part of which shall be visible against the sky from some
point in any public place and includes all and every part of any such post, pole,
standard, frame-work or other support. The expression 'sky-sign' shall also
include any balloon, parachute or other similar device employed wholly or in part
for the purposes of any advertisement upon or over any land, building or
structure or upon or over any public place but shall not include,-
(a)
any flag-staff, pole, van or weather-cock, unless adapted or used
wholly or in part for the purpose of any advertisement; or
(b)
any sign, or any board, frame or other contrivance securely fixed
to or on the top of the wall or parapet of any building, or on the cornice or
blocking course of any wall, or to the ridge of a roof:
Provided that, such board, frame or other contrivance be of one continuous
face and not openwork, and does not extend in height more than one meter above
any part of the wall or parapet or ridge to, or against, or on which it is fixed or
supported; or
(c)
any advertisement relating to the name of the land or building,
upon or over which the advertisement is exhibited, or to the name of the
owner or occupier of such land or building; or
(d)
any advertisement relating exclusively to the business of a
railway, and placed wholly upon or over any railway, railway station, yard,
platform or station approach belonging to a railway, and so placed that it
cannot fall into any street or public place; or
(e)
any notice of land or buildings to be sold, or let, placed upon such
land or buildings.
Explanation 3.- 'Public place' shall, for the purpose of this section,
Page 72/159
----- PAGE 73 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
mean any place which is open to the use and enjoyment of the public,
158. whether it is actually used or enjoyed by the public or not.
Prohibition of advertisements without written permission of the Chief
Commissioner.- (1) No advertisement shall, after the levy of the fee under section 157
has been determined upon by the corporation, be erected, exhibited, fixed or retained
upon or over any land, building, wall, hoarding or structure within the city or shall be
displayed in any manner whatsoever in any place without the written permission of the
Chief Commissioner.
(2)
The Chief Commissioner shall not grant such permission if,-
(i)
the advertisement contravenes any bye-law made by the corporation;
or
(ii)
the fee, if any, due in respect of the advertisement has not been paid.
(3)
Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), in the case of an
advertisement liable to the advertisement fee, the Chief Commissioner shall grant
permission for the period to which the payment of the fee relates and no fee shall
be charged in respect of such permission:
Provided that, the provisions of this section shall not apply to any
advertisement erected, exhibited, fixed or retained on the premises of a railway
198.
relating to the business of a railway.
159. Permission of the Chief Commissioner to become void in certain
cases.- The permission granted under section 158 shall become void in the following
cases, namely:-
(a)
if the advertisement contravenes any bye-laws made by the
corporation;
(b)
if any addition to the advertisement be made except for the
purpose of making it secure under the direction of the corporation
engineer;
(c)
if any material change be made in the advertisement or any part
thereof;
(d)
if the advertisement or any part thereof falls otherwise than
through accident;
(e)
if any addition or alteration be made to, or in the building, wall or
structure upon or over which the advertisement is erected, exhibited, fixed
or retained, if such addition or alteration involves the disturbance of the
advertisement or any part thereof; and
(f)
if the building, wall or structure upon or over which the
advertisement is erected, exhibited, fixed or retained be demolished or
160. destroyed.
Owner or person in occupation to be deemed responsible.- When any
advertisement is erected, exhibited, fixed or retained upon or over any land, building,
Page 73/159
----- PAGE 74 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
159. wall, hoarding or structure in contravention of the provisions of section 158 or section
or after the written permission for the erection, exhibition, fixation or retention
thereof for any period shall have expired or become void, the owner or person in
occupation of such land, building, wall, hoarding or structure shall be deemed to be the
person who has erected, exhibited, fixed or retained such advertisement in such
contravention unless he proves that such contravention was committed by a person not
161. in his employment or under his control or was committed without his connivance.
Removal of unauthorised advertisement.- If any advertisement be
159. erected, exhibited, fixed or retained contrary to the provisions of section 158 or section
or after the written permission for the erection, exhibition, fixation or retention
thereof for any period shall have expired or become void, the Chief Commissioner may,
by notice in writing, require the owner or the occupier of the land, building, wall,
hoarding or structure upon or over which the same is erected, exhibited, fixed or retained
to take down or remove such advertisement or may enter any building, land or property
162. and have the advertisement removed.
Collection of fee on advertisement.- The Chief Commissioner may farm
out the collection of any fee on advertisement leviable under section 158 for any period
not exceeding one year at a time on such terms and conditions as may be provided for in
163. the bye-laws.
The Chief Commissioner's power to call for information and to enter
upon premises and to condone omission to give notice.- (1) For the purpose of
assessing the property tax, the Chief Commissioner may, by notice, call upon the owner
or occupier of any building or land to furnish him within thirty days after the service of
the notice where the notice is served upon the Government, a railway administration or a
company and within fourteen days after such service in other cases, with returns of the
rent payable for the building or land, the cost of erecting the building, and the
199.
measurements of the land and with such other information as the Chief Commissioner
may require and every owner or occupier upon whom any such notice is served shall be
bound to comply with it and to make a true return to the best of his knowledge or belief.
(2)
For the purpose aforesaid the Chief Commissioner may enter, inspect, survey
and measure any building or land after giving twenty-four hour's notice to the owner or
occupier.
(3)
The Chief Commissioner may, at his discretion condone omissions to give
164. notice under this Act, giving his reasons in writing for every such condonations
Recovery of surcharges and charges how made.- (1) Every sum certified
by the auditor to be due from any person shall be paid by such person into the treasury
or bank in which the funds of the corporation are lodged, or through online within one
month from the receipt by him of the decision of the Chief Commissioner, unless within
that time such person has applied to the court or to the Government as provided in this
Act.
(2)
The said sum, if not paid, or if an application has been made to the court or to
the Government against the decision of the auditor as provided in this Act such sum as
the court or the Government shall declare to be due, shall be recoverable, on an
application made by the Chief Commissioner to the court, in the same manner as an
165. amount decreed by the court in favour of the Chief Commissioner.
Levy of entertainment tax.- (1) Entertainment tax shall be levied and
collected by the Corporation over any ticket based entertainment, non-ticket based
Page 74/159
----- PAGE 75 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
entertainment and televised entertainment, in accordance with the Act:
Provided that, the entertainment tax on televised entertainment shall be
collected by the Corporation within the corporation area.
(2)
The rate of entertainment tax leviable for any ticket-based
entertainment, non-ticket based entertainment and televised entertainment shall
166.
be determined by the Corporation by way of resolution.
Levy of entertainment tax on complimentary ticket and connections.-
(1)
There shall be an entertainment tax levied by and paid to the Corporation on every
complimentary ticket issued by the proprietors of entertainment who possess a valid
license to host ticket based entertainment or who own or manage the place of ticket
based entertainment and the tax on such complimentary ticket shall be paid on the
actual value of ticket or as per the value as determined by the Chief Commissioner from
time to time.
(2)
There shall be an entertainment tax levied by and paid to the
Corporation on every complimentary connection provided by the proprietors of
entertainment who possess a valid license under such applicable laws to provide
cable television service or direct to home service and the tax on such
complimentary connection shall be paid on the actual value of ticket or as per the
167.
value determined by the Chief Commissioner.
Exemption from payment of entertainment tax for performing any
duty inside the place of entertainment.-No persons, other than those who have a duty
to perform inside the place of ticket based entertainment or upon whom a duty has been
imposed under this Act, may be admitted to any ticket based entertainment without a
ticket or pass:
Provided that, such persons who have a duty to perform inside the place
of ticket based entertainment shall be distinguished from those persons who have
entered the place of ticket-based entertainment through purchased ticket or a
200.
complimentary ticket.
Provided also that, such persons shall be distinguished by way of special
pass indicating the purpose of the entry or the entry of such person shall be
168. permitted upon the approval of the Chief Commissioner.
Furnishing security amount.-(1)The Chief Commissioner may, if he deems
fit, mandate the furnishing of an amount by way of security form to the proprietor of
entertainment as an advance for the payment of entertainment tax.
(2)
The method of calculating the security amount required to be furnished
169. under sub section (1) shall be provided for under the Rules.
Payment of taxes and filing of self-assessed returns for the payment of
entertainment tax.- (1) Every proprietor of entertainment shall submit such returns to
the Chief Commissioner within such periods of time as prescribed under the Rules.
(2)
The details to be provided in the returns under sub section (1) by
170. each type of proprietor of entertainment shall be prescribed under the Rules.
Failure to submit returns or provide adequate details in the return.-(1)
If the Chief Commissioner believes or has reasonable cause to believe that the proprietor
Page 75/159
----- PAGE 76 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
of entertainment has not furnished all the details in the returns or if the Chief
Commissioner is of the reasonable belief that the details in the re-assessed returns are
untrue or the tax due has been underpaid, the Chief Commissioner shall issue an order
of re-assessment against such proprietor.
(2)
If the proprietor of entertainment has failed to submit returns under
section 169 the Chief Commissioner shall have the power to issue an order of re-
assessment against such proprietor.
(3)
If the Chief Commissioner believes or has reasonable cause to believe
that the complimentary ticket issued by the proprietor of entertainment does not
reflect the true value of the ticket, the Chief Commissioner shall have the power
to assess the value of the complimentary ticket and the criteria for which may be
provided for under the Rules:
Provided that, upon the assessment of the value of the complimentary
ticket, the Chief Commissioner shall issue an order to the proprietor of
entertainment to submit the revised returns which shall reflect the value of
complimentary ticket as assessed by the Chief Commissioner.
Provided further that, the revised returns shall be filed within fifteen days
of the receipt of the order.
(4)
The Chief Commissioner shall, for the purposes of sub sections (1),
(2)
and (3), have the power to enter the place of such entertainment and inspect
the surroundings and relevant documents.
(5)
For the purposes of sub section (1), the Chief Commissioner shall
have the power to search and seize any books, records, accounts, registers,
tickets and portions thereof and any article so seized shall be retained by Chief
Commissioner for not more than fifteen days from the date of seizure.
(6)
The Chief Commissioner, if necessary, may take copies, or cause
copies to be taken, of any books, records, accounts, registers, tickets and
portions thereof.
(7)
If the Chief Commissioner, upon inspection, is satisfied that the
proprietor of entertainment has not furnished all the details required under
Section 170, the Chief Commissioner shall issue a show cause notice and shall
provide an opportunity to be heard to such proprietor of entertainment and may
171. levy a fine as prescribed under the rules.
Appeal.- Any person aggrieved by the order of re-assessment by the Chief
201.
Commissioner may appeal before the tribunal.
172. Recovery of entertainment tax.-(1) Where the person has failed to file
returns under section and the requisite entertainment tax has been unpaid, the Chief
Commissioner shall, make a demand for the payment of entertainment tax due which
shall be paid within fifteen days from the date of receipt of the order.
(2)
Any person against whom a demand for payment of taxes has been
issued may challenge such demand before the tribunal in accordance with such
rules as may be prescribed.
Page 76/159
----- PAGE 77 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
(3)
If the person fails to pay tax within the time period provided for under
sub section (1) and sub section (2), the tribunal may order the recovery of the tax
173. by the Corporation as arrears of land revenue.
Punishment for non-payment of entertainment tax.- (1) If the proprietor
of entertainment fails to pay tax under this_ Act within such time period provided under
the Rules, such proprietor shall be liable to pay a fine of up to two times the tax payable
or be sentenced to imprisonment of up to one year or both.
(2)
The Chief Commissioner, for the purpose of sub section (1), shall have
174. the power to file a criminal complaint against such proprietor.
Punishment for willful suppression of information in the returns.-(1) If
the proprietor of entertainment willfully suppresses information in the returns and such
information, in the opinion of the Chief Commissioner, is material to the calculation of
entertainment tax, such proprietor shall be liable to pay a fine of up-to one and a half
times the differential amount or imprisonment of six months or both.
(2)
The Chief Commissioner, for the purpose of sub section (1), shall have
175. the power to file a criminal complaint against such proprietor.
Duty on transfer of immovable properties.-(1) The duty on transfer of
immovable property shall be levied in the form of a surcharge at the rate of two percent
1957.
of the duty imposed under the Karnataka Stamp Act, 1957 (Karnataka Act No 34 of
), on instruments of sale, gift, mortgage, exchange or lease in perpetuity of all
immovable property situated within the limits of a Corporation.
(2)
The Government shall remit the surcharge collected by it every month
and upon failure to remit such amounts beyond six months, the Government
176. shall transfer such amounts with an interest of nine percent.
Provisions applicable on the introduction of transfer duty.-(1)Section 28
of the Karnataka Stamp Act, 1957 shall be read, as if it specifically required the
particulars to be set forth separately in respect of property situated within and outside
the limits of the Corporation.
(2)
Section 64 of the same Act shall be read as if it referred to the
177. corporation as well as the Government.
Power to make rules regarding assessment and collection of transfer
duty.- The Government may make rules not inconsistent with this Act for regulating the
collection of the duty, the payment thereof to the corporation and the deduction of any
178. expenses incurred by the Government in the collection thereof.
Power to assess in case of escape from assessment.- Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained in this Act or the rules made thereunder, if for any
reason any person liable to pay any of the taxes or fees leviable under this chapter has
escaped assessment in any half-year or year, the Chief Commissioner may, at any time
within six years from the date on which such person should have been assessed, serve
on such person a notice assessing him to the tax or fee due and demanding payment
thereof within fifteen days from the date of such service; and the provisions of this Act
and the rules made thereunder shall, so far as may be, apply as if the assessment was
202.
made in the half-year or year to which the tax or fee relates.
179. Appeal before the Karnataka Appellate Tribunal.-(1)Any person aggrieved
Page 77/159
----- PAGE 78 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
by the order of re-assessment, demand for payment of tax or cess or any other order
passed by Chief Commissioner or any officer duly authorized by him on matters provided
for may file an appeal before the tribunal in such manner as may be provided for under
the Karnataka Appellate Tribunal Act, 1976 (Karnataka Act NO.10 of 1976)
(2)
Any person seeking to file an appeal shall do so within thirty days from
the date of receipt of order or demand.
Chapter XIV
FINANCE, ACCOUNTS AND AUDIT
180. Corporation Fund.-(1)There shall be a fund, called the Corporation Fund,
which shall be held by the Corporation in trust for the purposes of this Act, and all
monies realized or realisable under this Act and all monies otherwise received by the
Corporation shall be credited thereto.
(2)
All moneys received by or on behalf of the corporation by or under
this Act or any other law, all taxes, tolls and other imposts, fines, fees, penalties
paid to or levied by it under this Act, all proceeds of land or other property sold
by the corporation and all rents accruing from its land or property and all
interests, profits and other moneys accruing by gifts or transfers from the
Government or private individuals or otherwise shall constitute the corporation
fund and shall be held, applied and disposed of in accordance with the provisions
of this Act, the rules and the regulations made thereunder or any other law for
the time being in force.
(3)
The receipts and expenditures of the Corporation shall be kept under
such heads of accounts, in such manner and in such form, as may be prescribed.
(4)
Every head of account specified under sub section (2) shall be split
into a revenue account and a capital account and all items of receipts and
expenditures shall be kept appropriately under such revenue account or capital
account, as the case may be.
(5)
The Corporation shall prepare and maintain books of accounts using
the double entry accrual system of book keeping, in accordance with the
accounting standards recommended by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of
181. India, and in such manner as may be prescribed.
Application of the Corporation Fund.-(1) The moneys credited to the
Corporation fund from time to time shall be applied for payment of all sums, charges and
costs necessary for carrying out the purposes of this Act and the rules and the bye-laws
made thereunder and for payment of all sums payable out of the Corporation Fund in
accordance with the Karnataka Local Fund Authorities Fiscal Responsibility Act, 2003
(Karnataka Act 41 of 2003) or any other law for the time being in force in the manner
prescribed.
(2)
The Government shall prescribe the procedure for the application of
Corporation fund, accounting practices, publication of the financial documents
182. and such other processes for efficient financial management.
Urban Transport Fund.- (1) There shall be constituted a Fund called the
Urban Transport Fund which shall consist of,-
(a)
Urban Transport Cess collected under section 143 of this Act;
Page 78/159
----- PAGE 79 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
(b)
all grants received from the State Government and Central
Government, if any; and
(c)
any other receipts, interest or any other form of income to this
203.
fund.
(2)
The Urban Transport Fund shall be utilized for,-
(a)
co-ordinated planning, projects formulation and implementation
relating to urban transport and their integrated management;
(b)
conducting studies, research, promotion and compaign to
encourage for use of public transport;
(c)
capacity building in the urban local bodies, parastatal agencies
and in the State Government; and
(d)
any other purpose as may be prescribed by the State Government.
(3)
The Directorate of Urban Land Transport shall be the Secretariat to
administer the fund constituted under sub-section (1).
(4)
The accounts of all receipts and expenditure arising out of the Urban
Transport Fund shall be kept in such manner and in such form as may be
prescribed.
(5)
The Government shall appoint one of its officers as the auditor who shall
subject to supervision and control of the Principal Controller of State Audit and
Accounts conduct audit of the Urban Transport Fund and he shall have access to
all books of Accounts and to all receipts and expenditure relating to the Urban
Transport Fund and the Director of Urban Land Transport or as the case may be
the Director of Municipal Administration or the Chief Commissioner of the
Corporation or any officer of Corporation shall furnish to him any information
concerning any receipt of expenditure which may be required by him.
(6)
The Director of Urban Land Transport shall prepare Annual Report of
the operation of the Fund and furnish the report to the Government for laying
before each House of the State Legislature. Audit report and compliance in this
183. regard shall also be laid before each House of the State Legislature.
Contribution to expenditure by the Corporation.- (1) If the expenditure
incurred by the Government or by the Corporation for any purpose authorised by rules is
such as to benefit the inhabitants of the city, the corporation may make a contribution
towards such expenditure.
(2)
The Government may direct the corporation to show cause, within a
period fixed by the Government in this behalf not being less than one month after
receipt of the order containing the direction, why any contribution referred to in
sub-section (1) should not be made.
(3)
Page 79/159
----- PAGE 80 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
If the corporation fails to show cause within the said period to the
satisfaction of the Government, the Government may direct it to make such
184. contribution as it shall name and it shall be paid accordingly.
Power of corporation to borrow money.- (1) The corporation may, in
pursuance of any resolution passed at a special meeting, barrow by way of debenture or
otherwise, on the security of all or any of the taxes, duties, fees and dues authorised by
or under this Act, any sums of money which may be required,-
(a)
for the construction of works,
(b)
for the acquisition of lands and buildings, or
(c)
to pay off any debt due to Government, or
(d)
to repay a loan previously raised under this Act or any other law
previously in force:
204.
Provided that,-
(i)
no loan shall be raised without the previous sanction of the
Government, and
(ii)
the amount of the loan, the rate of interest and the terms including
the date of floating, the time and method of repayment and the like
shall be subject to the approval of the Government.
(2)
When any sum of money has been borrowed under sub-section (1),-
(a)
no portion thereof shall, without the previous sanction of the
Government, be applied to any purpose other than that for which it
was borrowed, and
(b)
no portion of any sum of money borrowed under clause (a) of sub-
section (1) shall be applied to the payment of salaries or allowances
to any corporation officers or servants other than those exclusively
employed upon the works for the construction of which the money
185. was borrowed.
Time for repayment of money borrowed under section 184.- The time
for the repayment of any money borrowed under section 184 shall in no case exceed sixty
years, and the time for the repayment of any money borrowed for the purpose of
discharging any previous loan shall not, except with the express sanction of the
Government, extend beyond the unexpired portion of the period for which such previous
186. loan was sanctioned.
Limit of borrowing powers.- Notwithstanding anything hereinafter
contained, the borrowing powers of the corporation shall be limited so that the sum
payable annually for interest and for the maintenance of the sinking funds as hereinafter
provided, and for interest and repayment of any sums borrowed otherwise shall not,
except with the express sanction of the Government, exceed ten percent of the rateable
187. value of buildings and lands as determined under this Act.
Form and effect of debentures.- All debentures issued under this chapter
shall be in such form as the corporation, with the previous sanction of the Government
Page 80/159
----- PAGE 81 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
may determine, and shall be transferable in such manner as shall be therein expressed;
and the right to sue in respect of the moneys secured by any of such debentures shall
vest in the holders thereof for the time being without any preference by reason of some
188. such debentures being prior in date to others.
Payment to survivors of joint payees.- When any debenture or security
issued under this Act is payable to two or more persons jointly, and either or any of them
dies, then, the debenture or security shall be payable to the survivor or survivors of such
persons:
Provided that nothing in this section shall affect any claim by the
189. representative of a deceased person against such survivor or survivors.
Receipt by joint holder for interest or dividend.- When two or more
persons are joint holders of any debenture or security issued under this Act, any one of
such persons may give an effectual receipt for any interest or dividend payable in respect
of such debenture or security, unless notice to the contrary has been given to the
190. corporation by any other of such persons.
Power of the corporation to consolidate loans.- (1) Notwithstanding
anything to the contrary contained in this Chapter, the corporation may consolidate all
or any of its loans and for that purpose may invite tenders for a new loan (to be called
the "Corporation Consolidated Loan, 20....") and invite the holders of corporation
debenture to exchange their debentures for scrip of such loan.
(2)
The terms of any such consolidated loan and the form of its scrip and
the rates at which exchange into such consolidated loan shall be permitted, shall
205.
be subject to the prior approval of the Government.
(3)
The period for the extinction of any such consolidated loan shall not,
without sanction of the Government extend beyond the farthest date within which
any of the loans to be consolidated would be otherwise repayable.
(4)
The corporation shall provide for the repayment of any such
consolidated loan by a sinking fund in the manner laid down in section 204
191. having regard to the amount transferred to such sinking fund under section 203.
Priority of payments for interest and repayment of loans over other
payment.- All payments due from the corporation for interest on and repayment of loans
192. shall be made in priority to all other payments due from the corporation.
Attachment of corporation fund for recovery of money borrowed from
the Government.- (1) If any money borrowed by the corporation from the Government,
whether before or after the commencement of this Act, or any interest or costs due in
respect thereof, be not repaid according to the conditions of the loan, the Government
may attach the corporation fund or any part thereof.
(2)
After such attachment, no person except an officer appointed in this
behalf by the Government shall in any way deal with the attached fund; but such
officer may do all acts in respect thereof which any municipal authority, officer or
servant might have done if such attachment had not taken place, and may apply
the proceeds in satisfaction of the arrears and of all interest and costs due in
respect thereof and all expenses caused by the attachment and subsequent
proceedings:
Provided that no such attachment shall defeat or prejudice any debt for
which the fund attached was previously charged in accordance with law; but all
Page 81/159
----- PAGE 82 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
such prior charges shall be paid out of the proceeds of the fund before any part of
193. the proceeds is applied to the satisfaction of the debt due to the Government.
Preparation of the corporation budget.-(1)Every zonal committee shall
submit a budget estimate to the Mayor which shall comprise of the required budgetary
support for the implementation of the existing schemes, list of capital expenses, required
manpower and such other expenses for the purposes of effective implementation of this
Act within a particular zone.
(2)
No zonal committee shall submit a budget estimate to the mayor
without consulting with the ward committees and considering its
recommendations.
(3)
The ward committees shall prior to making its recommendations to
the zonal committees organize such public consultations as necessary.
(4)
The format and process for submission of zonal committee budgets
estimate shall be as specified.
(5)
The chief commissioner shall prepare a budget estimate for the
Corporation upon considering the budget estimates from all the zonal
committees.
(6)
The budget estimate shall state the following,-
(a)
The receipts and payments for the previous financial years and
expected receipts and payments for the upcoming financial year;
(b)
Compliance to the medium term fiscal plan;
(c)
Rates at which various taxes, surcharges, cess and fees that
shall be levied by the Corporation for the immediately succeeding
financial year; and
(d)
The amount of money to be raised as a loan amount of money
allocated to each zonal committee and the basis for the utilization of
206.
such amounts.
(7)
The budget estimate shall be prepared, presented and adopted in
such form and in such manner and shall provide for such matters as may be
194. prescribed.
Budget estimates to be prepared by the standing committee for
taxation, finance and appeals or as the case may be, standing committee for
taxation and finance .- (1) The standing committee for taxation and finance and appeal
shall, on or as soon as may be, after the fifteenth day of January consider the estimates
and proposals of the chief Commissioner and after having obtained proposals, if any, of
other standing committees and such further detailed information, if any, as it shall think
fit to require from the chief Commissioner and having regard to all the requirements of
this Act, shall prepare there from, subject to such modifications and additions therein or
thereto as it shall think fit, a budget estimate of the income and expenditure of the
corporation for the next year.
Page 82/159
----- PAGE 83 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
(2)
In such budget estimate, the standing committee shall,-
(a)
provide for the payment, as they fall due of all instalments of
principal and interest for which the corporation may be liable on
account of loans;
(b)
provide for the payment as it falls due, of any amount towards
contributions, fees or such other amounts as may be payable by
the corporation to the Government;
(c)
allow for a cash balance at the end of the year of not less than
one lakh of rupees under General Account Revenue.
(3)
The Chief Commissioner shall cause the budget estimate as finally
approved by standing committee, to be printed and shall, not later than the first
195.
day of February, forward a printed copy thereof to each councillor.
Power of Corporation to alter budget grant.- The Corporation may from
time to time, for specific reasons to be explained in writing, during the financial year,-
(a)
Increase the amount of any budget grant under any head;
(b)
Make an additional budget grant for the purpose of meeting any
special or unforeseen requirement arising during the said year;
(c)
Transfer the amount of any budget grant or portion thereof under
one head to the amount of budget grant under any other head; and
(d)
Reduce the amount of the budget grant under any head.
196. Obligation to pass budget before the beginning of the year.- (1) The
corporation shall finally pass the budget estimate at least three weeks before the
beginning of the year to which it relates and shall forthwith submit a copy thereof to the
Government.
(2)
The Government may sanction the budget in its entirety or subject to
such modification as it thinks fit:
Provided however that, if within two months of the date of receipt of the
budget, the Government does not communicate any orders thereon, the budget
197. shall be deemed to have been sanctioned by the Government.
Corporation may pass supplemental budget.- The Corporation may, on
the recommendation of the standing committee for taxation, finance and appeal during
the year pass a supplemental budget estimate for the purpose of meeting any special or
unforeseen requirements, arising during that year; so however that the estimated cash
balance under General Account-Revenue at the close of the year shall not be reduced to
less than one lakh of rupees:
Provided that no item shall be included in the supplemental budget which
207.
had been disallowed by the Government while sanctioning the Budget.
198. Re-adjustment of income and expenditure to be made by the
corporation during the course of the official year whenever necessary.- (1) If it shall
Page 83/159
----- PAGE 84 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
at any time during any year appear to the corporation upon the representation of the
standing committee for taxation and finance , that, notwithstanding any reduction of
budget grants that may have been made under section 195, the income of the
corporation fund during the said year will not suffice to meet the expenditure sanctioned
in the budget estimate of the said year and to leave at the close of the year a cash
balance of not less than one lakh of rupees under General Account-Revenue, it shall be
incumbent on the corporation either to diminish the sanctioned expenditure of the year,
so far as it may be possible so to do with due regard to all the requirements of this Act,
or to have recourse to supplementary taxation, or to adopt both of these expedients in
such measure as may be necessary to secure an estimated cash balance of not less than
one lakh of rupees under General Account - Revenue at the close of the year.
(2)
Whenever the corporation determines to have recourse to
supplementary taxation in any year, it shall do so by increasing for the unexpired
portion of the year the rate at which any tax or duty is being levied subject to the
199. conditions, limitations and restrictions laid down in Chapter X.
Preparation of a medium-term fiscal plan.-(1) The Mayor in consultation
with the Chief Commissioner, Standing Committee for Taxation, Finance and Appeal and
Zonal Committees prepare a medium term fiscal plan for the Corporation in a manner as
may be prescribed.
(2)
The medium-term fiscal plan prepared under sub-section (1) shall
contain the receipts and payments projections for three years, assumptions
underlying projections and evaluation of performance against targets set in the
200. previous budget estimates.
Comprehensive Debt Limitation Policy.-(1) The Corporation shall frame a
Comprehensive Debt Limitation Policy applicable in the case of loans, including short
term loans, to be raised by the Corporations and laying down the general principles
governing the raising of loans by the Corporation having regard to its financial capacity.
(2)
The Corporation may borrow by way of loan or any other form of credit
provided such loan or credit is permitted under the Comprehensive Debt
201. Limitation Policy.
Mandatory compliance.-(1) The budget estimate prepared by the
Corporation shall be in compliance with the medium term fiscal plan, comprehensive
debt limitation policy prepared and those orders issued by Government from time to
time.
(2)
The Government may direct the Corporation to prepare the budget
estimate afresh, if it is of the opinion that the budget estimate approved by the
council is not in compliance with the medium-term fiscal plan and
comprehensive debt limitation policy.
(3)
No direction under sub-section (2) shall be without providing the
202. Corporation an opportunity of being heard.
Establishment of Sinking Fund.-(1) The Corporation shall establish a
Sinking Fund in respect of each loan raised under this Chapter for the repayment of
moneys borrowed and shall, every year pay into such Sinking Fund such sum as shall be
sufficient for the repayment, within the period fixed for the loan, of the moneys borrowed.
(2)
If at any time the sum standing at the credit of a Sinking Fund
Page 84/159
----- PAGE 85 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
established under this Act for repayment of any loan is of such amount that if
allowed to accumulate at the rate of interest sanctioned, the Chief Commissioner
with the prior approval of the Mayor discontinue the further payment towards
208.
such a fund.
203. Investment of amount at the credit of the Sinking Fund.-(1)All moneys
paid into a Sinking Fund shall, as soon as possible, be invested by the Corporation in
accordance with the investment policy applicable to any public enterprise laid down by
the Government
(2)
All sums received in respect of any investment under sub-section (1)
shall, as soon as possible, after their receipt, be paid into the Sinking Fund and
shall be invested in the manner laid down in that sub-section.
(3)
Moneys standing at the credit of two or more Sinking Funds may, at
the discretion of the Municipality, be invested together as a common fund, and it
shall not be necessary for the Corporation to allocate the securities held in such
investments to the several Sinking Funds.
(4)
Subject to the provisions of sub-section (1), any investment made
204. under this section may, from time to time, be varied or transposed.
Application of the sinking fund.- The Corporation may apply a sinking
fund or any part thereof, in or towards the discharge of the loan or part of a loan for
which such fund was created, and until such loan or part is wholly discharged shall not
apply the same for any other purpose:
Provided that, when any loan or parts thereof have been consolidated the
trustees shall transfer to the sinking fund of the consolidated loan so created
such part of the sinking funds of the original loans as may be proportionate to
205. the amount of the original loans incorporated in the consolidated loan.
Annual statement by the Corporation.- (1) The Corporation shall, at the
end of every year submit to the Government a statement showing,-
(a)
the amount which has been invested during the year;
(b)
the date of the last investment made previous to the submission of the
statement;
(c)
the aggregate amount of the securities then in their hands; and
(d)
the aggregate amount which has, up to the date of the statement, been
applied in or towards discharging loans.
(2)
Every such statement shall be laid before the Corporation and published.
206. Attachment of the Corporation fund for recovery of money borrowed
from the Government.- (1) If any money borrowed by the Corporation from the
Government, whether before or after the commencement of this Act, or any interest or
costs due in respect thereof, be not repaid according to the conditions of the loan, the
Government may attach the Palike fund or any part thereof.
(2)
After such attachment, no person except an officer appointed in this
behalf by the Government shall in any way deal with the attached fund; but such
Page 85/159
----- PAGE 86 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
officer may do all acts in respect thereof which any Corporation authority, officer
or servant might have done if such attachment had not taken place, and may
apply the proceeds in satisfaction of the arrears and of all interest and costs due
in respect thereof and all expenses caused by the attachment and subsequent
proceedings:
Provided that, no such attachment shall defeat or prejudice any debt for
which the fund attached was previously charged in accordance with law; but all
such prior charges shall be paid out of the proceeds of the fund before any part of
207. the proceeds is applied to the satisfaction of the debt due to the Government
Appointment of the Chief Financial Officer.-(1) The Corporation shall
appoint a Chief Financial Officer who shall guide the Corporation on all financial matters
and perform such duties as allocated by the Mayor or the Chief Commissioner from time
209.
to time.
(2)
The Chief Financial Officer shall be of such rank and designation as
208. may be specified by the Government.
Annual Financial statement.-(1)The Chief Commissioner, within two
months of the close of a financial year, cause to be prepared an annual financial
statement containing an income and expenditure account, cash flow statement and
receipts and payments account for the preceding financial year in respect of the accounts
of the Corporation, and a balance sheet as of the last day of the preceding financial year,
along with schedules to the above and notes to accounts including significant accounting
policies including details of contingent liabilities and any other such information as may
be useful in understanding the financial statements clearly.
(2)
The form of the financial statement and the balance sheet, and the
manner in which the financial statement and the balance sheet shall be prepared
209. in a manner such as may be prescribed.
Accounts and Audit.-(1) The accounts of all receipts and expenditure of the
corporation shall be kept in such manner and in such form as may be prescribed.
(2)
The Government shall appoint one of its officers as the Corporation
Chief Auditor who shall subject to the supervision and control of the Controller of
State Accounts conduct an audit of the corporation accounts and for this
purpose, he shall have access to the corporation accounts and to all receipts and
expenditure relating thereto and the Chief Commissioner shall furnish to him any
information concerning any receipt or expenditure which may be required by him.
(3)
Subject to the provisions of any law for the time being in force, the
audit of all transactions of receipts and expenditure of the Corporation shall be
subject to technical guidance and supervision of the Comptroller and Auditor
General of India and he shall send the annual technical inspection report to
Government for being placed before both Houses of the State Legislature.
(4)
The Controller, State Audit and Accounts Department shall send
Consolidated Annual Audited Report pertaining to the Corporation to the
Government for being placed before both Houses of the State Legislature.
(5)
The Chief Auditor of Corporation shall report to the prescribed
Corporation authority any material impropriety or irregularity which he may at
Page 86/159
----- PAGE 87 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
any time observe in the expenditure or in the recovery of moneys due to the
corporation or in the corporation accounts and shall furnish information in
respect of such matter as may be laid down in the rules.
(6)
He shall be paid such salary and allowances as the Government may
determine and shall be entitled to privileges in accordance with the rules and
regulations of the branch of the Government service to which he belongs and in
force for the time being and the corporation shall make such contribution
towards his leave, allowances, pension and provident fund as may be payable
under such rules and regulations by him or on his behalf from the corporation
fund.
Chapter XV
STREETS
210. Vesting of Public streets in the Corporation and their appurtenances
in Corporation.-(1) The following shall vest in the Corporation,-
(a)
All public streets in the Corporation reserved under the control of
the Government, with the pavements, stones and other materials thereof
and all work materials, implements and other things provided for such
210.
streets;
(b)
all sewers, drains, drainage works, tunnels and culverts whether
made at the cost of the Corporation fund or otherwise, in or alongside or
under any street, whether public or private, and
(c)
all works, materials, implements and other things appertaining
thereto and all trees not being private property growing on public streets or
by the side thereof.
(2)
The Government may, after consulting the Corporation by notification
withdraw any such street, sewer, drain, drainage work, tunnel, culvert or tree
from the control of the Corporation.
(3)
All public streets vesting in the Corporation shall be under the control of
the Zonal Commissioner of the respective zone and shall be maintained,
controlled and regulated by them in accordance with the bye-laws that are made
in this behalf, and upon any such instructions issued by the Chief
211.
Commissioner.
Powers of the Zonal Commissioner in respect of public streets,- (1)The
Zonal Commissioner shall, from time to time, either suo moto or upon the request of the
Ward Committee cause all public streets vested in the Corporation to be levelled and
repaired; he may also from time to time widen, extend or otherwise improve any such
street for the safety of pedestrians.
(2)
The Zonal Commissioner may also, at any time, close the whole or
any part of a public street vested in the respective zone:
Provided that, before doing so, the Corporation shall by notice publish in
the manner specified by bye-laws give reasonable opportunity to the residents
likely to be affected by such closure to make suggestions or objections with
Page 87/159
----- PAGE 88 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
respect to such closure and shall consider all such suggestions or objections
which may be made within thirty days from the date of the publication of the said
212.
notice.
Powers of the Chief Commissioner in respect of public streets.- (1) The
Chief Commissioner shall have the power to issue directions to the Zonal commissioner
from time to time, as may be necessary.
(2)
The Chief Commissioner shall have the power to take decisions in
213.
matters pertaining to streets that overlap two or more zones.
Power to make new public streets.-(1)The Zonal Commissioner may at
any time with the previous sanction of the Chief Commissioner,-
(a)
lay out and make new public streets;
(b)
construct bridges and sub-ways;
(c)
turn or divert any existing public street for alignment of roads;
(d)
widen, open, extend or otherwise improve any public street; and
(e)
lay down and determine the position and direction of a street or
streets in any part of Bengaluru notwithstanding that no proposal for the erection
of any building in the vicinity has been received.
(2)
The Bengaluru Development Authority shall assist the Corporation in
carrying out its functions.
(3)
Reasonable compensation shall be paid to the owners and occupiers of
any land or buildings which are acquired for or affected by any such purposes.
(4)
In determining such compensation, allowance shall be made for any
benefit accuring to the owner or occupier concerned from the construction or
214.
improvement made by the Chief Commissioner.
Minimum width of new public streets.-The Chief Commissioner shall,
from time to time, specify the minimum width of different public streets according to the
211. nature of the traffic likely to be carried thereon, and the streets with which they join at
one or both ends, the localities in which they are situated and other similar
215.
considerations.
Power to prohibit use of public streets for certain kind of traffic.-
(1)
The Zonal Commissioner may prohibit vehicular traffic in any public
street or any portion thereof so as to prevent danger, obstruction or
inconvenience to the public or to ensure quietness in any locality.
(2)
The Zonal Commissioner shall seek assistance from police to regulate
216.
traffic in streets as stipulated under Section 69 of the Karnataka Police Act, 1963.
Page 88/159
----- PAGE 89 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
Owner?s obligation when dealing with land as building sites.-If the
owner of any land utilizes, sells, leases out or otherwise disposes off any part of the land
for the construction of buildings, he shall lay down and make a street or streets giving
217.
access to the plots and connecting them to an existing public or private street.
Making of new private streets.- (1) Any person intending to layout or
make a new private street must send to the Chief Commissioner a written application
with plans and sections showing the following particulars, namely:-
(a)
the intended level, direction and width of the street;
(b)
the street alignment and the building line; and
(c)
the arrangements to be made for levelling, paving, metalling, flagging,
channelling, sewering, draining, conserving and lighting the street.
(2)
The provisions of this Act and of any rules or bye-laws made
thereunder as to the level and width of public streets and the height of buildings
abutting thereon shall apply also in the case of streets referred to in sub-section
(1)
and all the particulars referred to in that sub-section shall be subject to
approval by the zonal committee.
(3)
Within sixty days after the receipt of any application under sub-
section (1) the zonal committee shall either sanction the making of street on such
conditions as it may think fit or disallow it or ask for further information with
respect to it.
(4)
Such sanction may be refused,-
(a)
if the proposed street would conflict with any arrangements
which have been made or which are in the opinion of the standing
committee likely to be made, for carrying out any general scheme of
street improvement;
(b)
if the proposed street does not conform to the provision of the
Act, the rules and bye laws referred to in sub-section (2); or
(c)
if the proposed street is not designed so as to connect at one
end with a street which is already open.
(5)
No person shall layout or make any new private street without or
otherwise than in conformity with the order of the zonal committee. If further
information is asked for, no steps shall be taken to lay out or make the street
until orders have been passed upon receipt of such information:
Provided that, the passing of such orders shall not in any case be delayed
for more than sixty days after the zonal committee has received all the
information which it considers necessary to enable it to deal finally with the said
application.
(6)
If the zonal committee does not refuse sanction within sixty days
Page 89/159
----- PAGE 90 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
from the receipt of the application under sub-section (1) or from the receipt of all
the information asked for under sub-section (5), such sanction shall be deemed to
212. have been given and the applicant may proceed to make the street, but not so as
to contravene any of the provisions of this Act or the rules or bye-laws made
218.
under this Act.
Alteration or demolition of street made in breach of section 217.-
(1)
If any person lays out or marks any street referred to in section 217
without or otherwise than in conformity with the alignment of roads or orders of
the standing committee the Zonal Commissioner, may, whether or not the
offender be prosecuted under this Act, by notice require the offender to,-
(a)
show sufficient cause, by a written statement signed by him
and sent to the Zonal Commissioner on or before such day as may be
specified in the notice why such street should not be altered to the
satisfaction of the Zonal Commissioner, or is such alteration be
impracticable, why such street should not be demolished; or
(b)
appear before the Zonal Commissioner either personally or by
duly authorised agent on such day at such time and place as may be
specified in the notice, and show cause as aforesaid.
(2)
If any person on whom such notice is served fails to show sufficient
cause to the satisfaction of the Zonal Commissioner why such street should not
be so altered or demolished, the Zonal Commissioner may pass an order directing
the alteration or demolition of such street.
(3)
If such work is not carried out within the time specified in the notice,
the Zonal Commissioner may, if he thinks fit, execute it and the expenses
incurred shall be paid by the owner referred to in sub-section (1) in such
219.
proportions as may be settled by the Zonal Commissioner.
Power to dispose of permanently closed streets.- (1) When any public
street is permanently closed under section 213, the corporation may dispose of the site
or so much thereof as is no longer required making due compensation to any person
injured by such closing.
(2)
In determining such compensation, allowance shall be made for any
benefit accruing to the same premises or any adjacent premises belonging to the
same owner from the construction or improvement of any other public street, at
or about the same time that the public street, on account of which the
220.
compensation is paid, is closed.
Acquisition of land and buildings for improvement of streets.- (1) The
chief Commissioner may subject always to such sanction as may be required, acquire,-
(a)
any land required for the purpose of widening, opening, extending
or otherwise improving any public street or of making any new public street,
and the building if any, standing upon such land;
(b)
Page 90/159
----- PAGE 91 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
any land outside the proposed street alignment with the building
if any, standing thereupon with the corporation may consider it expedient to
acquire.
(2)
Any land or building acquired under clause (b) of sub-section (1) may be
sold, leased or otherwise disposed of, after public advertisement, and any
conveyance made for that purpose may comprise such conditions as the standing
committee thinks fit as to the removal of the existing building, if any, the
description of the new building (if any) to be erected, the period within which the
new building (if any) shall be completed and any other similar matters.
(3)
The standing committee may require any person to whom any land or
building is transferred under sub-section (2) to comply with any conditions
comprised in the said conveyance before it places him in possession of the land or
213. building.
221. Powers to prescribe building line and street alignment.- The standing
committee may,-
(a)
prescribe for any public street, a building line or a street
alignment or both a building line and a street alignment;
(b)
from time to time, but subject in each case to its receiving the
authority of the corporation in that behalf, define a fresh line in substitution
for any line so defined or any part thereof, provided that such authority shall
not be accorded,-
(i)
unless, at least one month before the meeting of the corporation at
which the matter is considered, public notice of the proposal has
been given by the Chief Commissioner by advertisment in the local
newspapers and in the official Gazette, and also special notice
thereof, signed by the Chief Commissioner has been put up in the
street or part of the street for which fresh line is proposed to be
defined; and
(ii)
until the corporation has considered all objections to the said
proposals made in writing and delivered at the corporation office not
222.
less than three clear days before the day of such meeting.
Restriction on erection of or addition to buildings within street
alignment or building line.- (1) No person shall construct any portion of any building
within a street alignment defined under section 221, provided however that the Chief
Commissioner may in his discretion permit additions to a building to be made within a
street alignment, if such addition merely add to the height and rest upon an existing
building or wall, upon the owner of the building executing an agreement binding himself
and his successors in interest,-
(a)
not to claim compensation in the event of the Chief Commissioner
at any time thereafter calling upon him or his successors to remove any
building erected or added to in pursuance of such permission or any portion
thereof; and
(b)
Page 91/159
----- PAGE 92 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
to pay the expenses of such removal:
Provided that the Chief Commissioner shall, in every case in which he gives
permission, report his reasons, in writing to the standing committee.
(2)
If the Chief Commissioner refuses to grant permission to erect or add to
any building on the ground that the proposed site falls wholly or in part within a
street alignment prescribed under section 221 and if such site or portion thereof
which falls within such alignment be not acquired on behalf of the corporation
within one year after the date of such refusal, the corporation shall pay
reasonable compensation to the owner of the site.
(3)
No person shall erect or add to any building between a street alignment
and a building line defined under section 221 except with the permission of the
Chief Commissioner who may when granting the permission impose such
223.
conditions as the standing committee may lay down for such cases.
Setting back projecting building or wall.- (1) When any building or part
thereof abutting on a public street is within a street alignment defined under section 221
the Chief Commissioner may, whenever it is proposed,-
(a)
to rebuild such building or take it down to an extent exceeding
one-half thereof above the ground level such half to be measured in cubic
meter; or
(b)
to remove, reconstruct or make any addition to any portion of
214. such building which is within the street alignment, in the order which he
issues concerning the re-building, alteration or repair of such building require
such building to be set back to the street alignment.
(2)
When any building or any part thereof within the street alignment falls
down or is burnt down or is, whether by order of the Chief Commissioner or
otherwise, taken down, the Chief Commissioner may forthwith take possession on
behalf of the corporation of the portion of land within the street alignment thereof
occupied by the said building and, if necessary, clear it.
(3)
Land acquired under this section shall be deemed a part of the public
street and shall vest in the corporation.
(4)
When any building is set back in pursuance of any requisition made
under sub-section (1), or when the Chief Commissioner takes possession of any
land under sub-section(2), the corporation shall forthwith make full
compensation to the owner for any direct damage which he may sustain thereby.
Explanation.- The expression, "direct damage" as used in sub-section (4)
with reference to land means, the market value of the land taken and the
depreciation, if any, in the ordinary market value of the rest of the land resulting
from the area being reduced in size; but does not include damage due to the
prospective loss of any particular use to which the owner may allege that he
intended to put the land, although such use may be injuriously affected by the
224.
reduction of site.
Additional power of the Chief Commissioner to order settling back of
Page 92/159
----- PAGE 93 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
buildings to regular line of street.- (1) If any building or any part thereof is within the
regular line of a public street and if, in the opinion of the Chief Commissioner, it is
necessary to set back the building to the regular line of the street he may, if the
provisions of section 223 do not apply, by written notice,-
(a)
require the owner of such building to show cause within such
period as is specified in such notice by a statement in writing subscribed by
him or by an agent duly authorised by him in that behalf and addressed to
the Chief Commissioner, why such building or any part thereof which is
within the regular line of the street shall not be pulled down and the land
within the said line acquired by the Commissioner; or
(b)
require the said owner on such day and at such time and place as
shall be specified in such notice to attend personally or by an agent duly
authorised by him in that behalf and show cause why such building or any
Part thereof ? which is within the regular line of the street shall not be pulled
down and the land within the said line acquired by the Chief Commissioner.
(2)
If such owner fails to show sufficient cause to the satisfaction of the
Chief Commissioner why such building or any part thereof, which is within the
regular line of the street shall not be pulled down and the land within the said
line acquired as aforesaid, the Chief Commissioner, may, with the approval of the
standing committee, require the owner by a written notice, to pull down the
building or the part thereof which is within the regular line of the street within
such period as is prescribed in the notice.
(3)
If within such period the owner of such building fails to pull down such
building or any part thereof coming within the said line, the Chief Commissioner
may pull down the same and all the expenses incurred in so doing shall be paid
by the owner.
(4)
The Chief Commissioner shall at once take possession on behalf of the
215. corporation of the portion of the land within the said line theretofore occupied by
the said buildings and such land shall hence forward be deemed a part of the
public street and shall vest as such in the corporation.
Provided that, nothing in this section shall be deemed to apply to buildings
225.
vesting in the Government.
Power of the Zonal Commissioner to order work to be carried out or to
carry it out himself in default.- (1) If any private street or part thereof is not levelled,
paved, metalled, flagged, channelled, sewered, drained, conserved or lighted to the
satisfaction of the Zonal Commissioner, he may by notice require the owners of such
street or part and the owners of buildings and lands fronting or abutting on such street
or part including in cases where the owners of the land and of the building thereon are
different, the owners both of the land and of the building to carry out any work which in
his opinion may be necessary and within such time as may be specified in such notice.
(2)
If such work is not carried out within the time specified in the notice,
the Zonal Commissioner may, if he thinks fit, execute it and the expenses
incurred shall be paid by the owner referred to in sub-section (1) in such
226.
Page 93/159
----- PAGE 94 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
proportions as may be settled by the Commissioner.
Right of owners to require streets to be declared public.- If the Zonal
commissioner carries out work in accordance with section 225, he, with the requisition of
majority of the owners can declare such a street to be a public street and thereupon the
227.
street shall vest in the Corporation.
Prohibition of projections upon streets.- (1) No person shall erect
projections in any way that can obstruct or cause inconvenience to the public.
(2)
In an event the person erects such projections, he shall be required
by the Zonal Commissioner to remove such projections, failing which appropriate
action may be taken against him.
(3)
It shall be the duty of the Corporation to implement the provisions of
228.
the rules or byelaws prescribed thereunder.
Prohibition of structures or fixtures which cause obstruction in
streets.-No person shall, except with the permission of the Zonal Commissioner, erect or
set up any wall, fence, rail, post, step, booth or other structure whether fixed or movable
or whether of a permanent or temporary nature, or any fixture in or upon any street or
upon or over any open channel, drain, well or tank in any street so as to form an
obstruction to, or an encroachment upon, or a projection over, or to occupy any portion
229.
of such street, channel, drain, well or tank.
Removal of encroachments.- (1) The Zonal Commissioner may, by notice,
require the owner or occupier of any premises to remove or alter any projection.
Encroachment or obstruction other than a door, gate, bar or ground floor window
situated against or in front of such premises and in or over any street.
(2)
Where the Zonal Commissioner is satisfied that any road or public
street including footpath, if any, thereof belonging to the Corporation or vested in
it or otherwise is encroached upon by any person in any form, either temporarily
or permanently so as to cause obstruction or hindrance or inconvenience to
traffic and users of the street, the Zonal Commissioner may summarily evict such
encroachments.
(3)
Pursuant to directing such a person to leave, and the person fails to
leave, the Zonal Commissioner may file a criminal complaint against such a
230.
person.
Precautions during repair of streets.-(1)The Zonal Commissioner shall, so
far as is practicable during the construction or repair of any public street vested in the
Corporation-
(a)
cause the same to be fenced and guarded;
216
(b)
take proper precautions against accident by protecting the adjoining
buildings;
(2)
The Zonal Commissioner shall cause such street to be sufficiently
Page 94/159
----- PAGE 95 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
lighted or guarded during night while under construction or repair.
(3)
The Zonal Commissioner shall, as far as practicable, cause the said
work to be completed at the earliest and without causing inconvenience to the
231.
public.
Streets not to be opened or broken up and building materials not to be
deposited thereon without permission.- (1) No person or agency other than the Zonal
Commissioner or a Corporation employee shall, without the written permission of the
Zonal Commissioner who shall give such permission upon the consultation of the Zonal
Committee,
(a)
open, break up, displace, take up or make any alteration in to
any material that is forming part of any street; or
(b)
deposit any building materials in any street
(2)
The Zonal Commissioner may, without notice, cause to be removed
any of the things referred to in sub section (1) which has been deposited or set up
232.
in any street without the permission specified in that sub-section.
Right to receive compensation owing to any defect in public street.- (1)
When a person dies as a result of an accident which occurred due to a defect on a public
street, whether such person was commuting by motor vehicle or any vehicle or was a
pedestrian on a public street, his immediate family or dependents shall have the right,
jointly and severally, to claim compensation from the Corporation. .
(2)
Any person who suffers an injury as a result of an accident which
occurred due to a defect on a public street, while commuting by motor vehicle or
any vehicle, or as a pedestrian on a public street shall have the right to claim
compensation from the Corporation.
(3)
The procedure for determination and payment of compensation shall be
233.
done in accordance with rules or bylaws prescribed thereunder.
Naming of Public streets.- (1) The Chief Commissioner, with the sanction
of the Mayor may, with the sanction of the Corporation, determine the name by which
any street or public place vested in the Corporation shall be known and may, at any
time, alter the name of such a street:
Provided that, before such naming or renaming, the opinion of the Ward
Committees concerned shall be taken into consideration.
(2)
No person shall, without lawful authority, destroy, remove, pull
down, deface or in any way injure or alter any such name put up or paint any
name put up or painted by order of the Zonal Commissioner.
(3)
The Zonal Commissioner shall cause to be put up or painted in
English and Kannada on a conspicuous part of some building, wall or place, at or
234.
near each end, corner or entrance the name of every public street.
Numbering of Buildings.-(1) The Zonal Commissioner shall cause a
Page 95/159
----- PAGE 96 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
number to be affixed to the side or outer door of any building or to some place at the
entrance of the premises.
(2)
No person shall, without lawful authority, destroy, pull down or
deface any such number.
(3)
Where a number has been affixed under (1), the owner of the building
shall be bound to maintain such number and to replace it if removed or defaced
and if he fails to do so, the Zonal Commissioner may by notice require him to
217. replace it.
235. Provision for lighting of Public Streets.- (1) The Corporation shall cause
the public streets to be lighted and for that purpose shall provide such street lights as
may be necessary.
(2)
The Zonal Commissioner shall take measures for lighting in a
suitable manner all such public streets and public places.
(3)
The Zonal Commissioner shall procure, erect and maintain such
number of street lights, lamps, lamp posts and other accessories as may be
236.
necessary for the said purpose.
Prohibition of removal, of street lights.- (1) No person shall, without
lawful authority, take away or wilfully or negligently break or throw down or damage,-
(a)
any street lights, lamp or lamp post set up in any public street
or any public place; and
(b)
any electric wire for lighting such street light or lamp;
(2)
No person shall willfully or negligently extinguish the light of any street
light or lamp set up in any public street or any public place.
(3)
If any person wilfully or through negligence or accident breaks, or
causes any damage to, any of the things described in sub-section (1), he shall in
addition to any penalty to which he may be subjected under this Act, pay the
237.
expenses of repairing the damage so done by him.
Power to allow certain projections and erections;- (1) The Zonal
Commissioner may grant a licence subject to such conditions and restrictions as he may
think fit to the owner or occupier of any premises,-
(a)
to put-up or continue to have verandahs, balconies, sun-shades,
weather frames and the like to project over a street; or
(b)
in streets in which the constructions of arcades has been
sanctioned by the Corporation to put up or continue to have an arcade; or
(c)
to construct any step or drain-covering necessary for access to the
premises.
(2)
The Zonal Commissioner may grant a licence subject to such conditions
Page 96/159
----- PAGE 97 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
and restrictions as he may think fit for any temporary construction in any street
or in any public place the control of which is vested in the Corporation.
(3)
No licence shall be granted under sub-section (1) if the projection or
construction is likely to be injurious to health or cause public inconvenience or
otherwise materially interfere with the use of the road as such.
(4)
On the expiry of any period for which a licence has been granted under
this section or after due communication of an order of suspension or revocation
of such licence the Zonal Commissioner may, without notice, cause any
projection or construction put up under subsection (1) or (2) to be removed, and
the cost of so doing shall be recoverable in the manner from the person to whom
the licence was granted.
(5)
The Corporation shall have power to lease road sides and street margins
vested in the Corporation for occupation on such terms and conditions and for
such period as it may fix:
Provided that, no such road sides and street margins shall be leased out for
any term exceeding three years without prior sanction of the Government:
Provided further that, if the Government consider that any occupation of a
road side or street margin under a lease granted by the Corporation under this
section is likely to be injurious to health or cause public inconvenience or
218. otherwise materially interfere with the use of the road side or street margin as
such, the Government may direct the Corporation to cancel or modify the lease
and the Corporation shall thereupon cancel or modify the lease accordingly.
Chapter XVI
REGULATION OF BUILDINGS INCLUDING TOWN PLANNING
238. Building bye-laws.-(1) With the approval of the Government the
Corporation may make bye-laws,-
(a)
for the regulation or restriction of the use of sites or buildings; and
(b)
for the regulation or restriction of building.
(2)
without prejudice to the generality of the power conferred by clause
(b)
of sub-section (1) bye-laws may provide for the following,-
(a)
Information and plans required to be submitted to the
Corporation by any person seeking to construct a building within the
jurisdiction of the Corporation.
(b)
The type of site where the buildings may be constructed and
the permitted technical standards for such construction.
(c)
List of locations around which certain types of constructions
may be prohibited.
(d)
Height of building sought to be constructed, whether absolute
or relative to the width of the street
(e)
Page 97/159
----- PAGE 98 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
Level and width of foundation of the building sought to be
constructed, level of lowest floor and stability of structure
(f)
Provision of sufficient open space, external or internal and
adequate means of ventilation within the building.
(g)
Provision for secondary means of access for the removal of
waste from the building
(h)
Materials and methods of construction of external and party
walls, roofs and floors within the building
(i)
Position, materials and methods of construction of hearts,
smoke escapes, chimneys, staircases, privies, drains, cesspools within or
outside the building
(j)
Paving of yards within the site where the building is sought to
be constructed
(k)
Restrictions on the use of inflammable materials within the
buildings in accordance other relevant regulations.
(l)
Provision of lifts within the building
(m)
Fire protection requirement within the building in accordance
with the fire plan
(n)
Minimum plantation required within a building
(o)
Installation of rain water harvesting systems within the
building; and
(p)
Minimum quality of materials to be used during construction of
239.
buildings.
Prohibition of construction without sanction.-No person shall construct
any building or any structure of a permanent nature or execute any of the work relating
to the construction of building including addition, alteration or modification of an
existing within the jurisdiction of the Corporation save and except in accordance with
building bye-laws issued under section 238 and upon the sanction of the Corporation to
240.
undertake such construction.
Procedure for grant of sanction of building plan.-(1) If any person
219. intends to construct or reconstruct a building, he shall by way of an application as
prescribed apply to the Zonal Commissioner for permission with such documents as may
be prescribed to undertake such construction or re-construction.
(2)
Upon receipt of the application under sub-section (1), the Zonal
Commissioner shall verify if the application confirms to the building bye-laws and
grant permission to undertake construction or if the application does not confirm
to the building bye-laws reject such applications.
Page 98/159
----- PAGE 99 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
(3)
The Corporation shall prescribe the conditions for the approval or
rejection of building bye-laws.
(4)
While verifying an application sub-section (1) the Zonal
Commissioner may seek for such information necessary to process the
application from officers of the ward committees.
(5)
The zonal commissioner may if necessary refer any application
received under sub-section (1) to the Chief Commissioner who shall determine in
such application in consultation with the Mayor or any other appropriate
corporation authority in accordance with the Act.
(6)
The Zonal Commissioner shall process any application received
under sub-section (1) within such time periods as may be prescribed and in the
event of the zonal commissioner not communicating the decision on such
application within the prescribed time period the application shall be deemed to
be approved:
Provided that, deemed approval shall not be accorded to those
applications referred to the Chief Commissioner under Sub-Section (4).
(7)
Any approval for a building plan issued under this Section shall be
valid for a duration of five years upon which the person shall apply for permission
afresh.
(8)
Any person who constructs in the absence of a sanctioned building
plan shall be required to pay such penalty as may be prescribed and apply for
sanction of the building plan in accordance with this Chapter.
(9)
Any person who constructs a building not in accordance with the
sanctioned building plan, the Zonal Commissioner may direct such persons to
undertake such modification or alteration of the building to ensure conformity to
the sanctioned building plan
(10)
The Zonal Commissioner or such officers authorized by him may
undertake such random physical scrutiny of buildings as necessary for the
purposes of enforcing the provisions of this Act.
(11)
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Section the Zonal
Commissioner shall have the power to order for the stoppage of any construction
241.
which in his opinion endangers the human life.
Obligation to provide for rain water harvesting structure.- (1) Every
owner who proposes to construct a building on a sital area of not less than 108 square
meter shall provide rain water harvesting structure for storage, for use or for ground
water recharge in such manner and subject to such conditions as may be provided in the
regulations and guidelines issued by the Corporation.
(2)
Every owner who proposes to construct a building on sital area of not
less than 216 square metres or an owner or occupier of a building having sital
area of not less than 216 square metres, shall provide rainwater harvesting
Page 99/159
----- PAGE 100 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
structure for storage, for use and for ground water recharge subject to such
conditions as may be specified in the regulations and guidelines issued by the
220. Corporation.
(3)
Every owner who proposes to construct a building on sital area of not
less than 1000 square meter or a owner of a building having sital area of not less
than 1000 square meter who has not provided rain water harvesting structure
before the commencement of this Act shall provide dual piping system and rain
water harvesting structure for storage and reuse based on roof area and ground
water recharge based on paved and unpaved areas in such manner and subject
to such conditions as may be specified in the regulations and guidelines issued
by the Corporation.
Explanation.- For the purpose of this section,-
(a)
?rain water harvesting? means collection and storage of rain water from
roof top of a building or from a vacant land for use or for ground water
recharge; and
(b)
?ground water recharge? means recharging of open well or the bore well
or the underground water as the case may be, by use of harvested rain
242.
water.
Application to construct or re-construct building.- (1) If any person
intends to construct or re-construct a building, he shall send to the Zonal Commissioner
an application in writing for permission to execute the work together with a site plan of
the land, ground-plan, elevations and sections of the building, a specification of the work
and such other documents as may be prescribed.
Explanation.- 'Building' in this sub-section shall include a wall or fence
of whatever height bounding or abutting on any public street.
(2)
Every document furnished under sub-section (1) shall contain such
particulars and be prepared in such manner as may be required under rules or
243.
bye-laws.
Period within which the Zonal Commissioner is to grant or refuse to
grant permission to execute work.- (1) Within thirty days after the receipt of any
application made under section 242 for permission to execute any work or of any
information or of documents or further information or documents required under rules
or bye-laws the Zonal Commissioner shall, by written order, either grant such permission
or refuse on one or more of the grounds mentioned in section 244 or section 245, to
grant it.
(2)
If the Zonal Commissioner has not within the said period of thirty days
passed any order, the applicant may address a letter to the Chief Commissioner
by name, requesting him to pass necessary orders on his application, and the
Chief Commissioner shall, within a further period of thirty days from the date of
receipt of such letter, by written order, either grant such permission or refuse, on
244.
one or more of the grounds mentioned in section 244 or section 245, to grant it.
Grounds on which approval of site for, or permission to construct
building, may be refused.- (1) The only grounds on which approval of a site for the
Page 100/159
----- PAGE 101 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
construction or re-construction of a building or permission to construct or re-construct a
building may be refused, are the following, namely:-
(a)
that the work or the use of the site for the work or any of the
particulars comprised in the site plan, ground-plan, elevations, sections,
or specification would contravene some specified provisions of any law or
some specified order, rule, declaration or bye-law made under any law;
(b)
that the application for such permission does not contain the
particulars or is not prepared in the manner required under rules or bye-
221.
laws;
(c)
that any of the documents referred to in section 242 have not been
signed as required under rules or bye-laws;
(d)
that any information or documents required by the Zonal
Commissioner under the rules or bye-laws has or have not been duly
furnished;
(e)
that streets or roads have not been made as required by section
216;
(f)
that the proposed building would be an encroachment upon
Government or corporation land;
(g)
that the site of such building does not abut on a street or a
projected street and there is no access to such building from any such
street by a passage or pathway appertaining to such site and not less than
five meters wide at any part.
(2)
Whenever the Zonal Commissioner or the standing committee refuses to
approve a site for a building or to grant permission to construct or re-construct a
245.
building the reasons for such refusal shall be specifically stated in the order.
Restriction on the power to sanction construction of a place of
entertainment in certain cases.- Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or any
rule or bye-law made thereunder, the construction of, or any addition to any building of
public entertainment or any addition thereto, shall not, except with the previous
approval of the Government, be sanctioned by the Zonal Commissioner or the standing
committee, if the site of, or proposed site for, such building is,-
(a)
within a radius of two hundred meters from,-
(i)
any residential institution attached to a recongnised educational
institution such as a college, high school or girls school; or
(ii)
a public hospital with a large indoor patient ward; or
(iii)
an orphanage containing one hundred or more inmates; or
(b)
Page 101/159
----- PAGE 102 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
in any thickly populated residential area which is either exclusively
residential or reserved or used generally for residential as distinguished from
business purposes; or
(c)
in any area reserved for residential purposes by any housing or planning
scheme or otherwise under any enactment:
Provided that no permission to construct any building intended to be used
for cinematograph exhibition shall be given unless the standing committee is
satisfied that sanction to the plans and specifications have been obtained in
23. accordance with the Karnataka Cinemas (Regulation) Act, 1964 (Karnataka Act
246.
of 1964) and the rules made thereunder .
Grant of completion certificate.-(1) Every person who has constructed a
building in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter shall apply for a completion
certificate to the Zonal Commissioner within one month from the date of completion of
such construction.
(2)
Any application for completion certificate shall be certified by an
empanelled architect who shall certify that the building has been constructed in
accordance with the sanctioned building plan:
Provided that, if an empanelled architect certifies a building which is not
in conformity with the building bye-laws, the Corporation may upon hearing the
concerned architect levy such penalty as may be prescribed.
(3)
The Zonal Commissioner upon receiving an application for grant of
completion certificate may grant the completion certificate or the Corporation may
undertake such physical inspection of the building, as necessary, and grant or
222. reject the application for completion certificate.
No person shall occupy the building in the absence of a completion
247.
certificate.
Application of provisions to alterations and additions.- (1) The
provisions of this Chapter and of any rules or bye-laws made under this Act relating to
construction and re-construction of the buildings shall also be applicable to any
alteration thereof or addition thereto:
Provided that works of necessary repair which do not affect the position or
dimensions of a building or any room in a building therein shall not be deemed
an alteration or addition for the purpose of this section.
(2)
If any question arises as to whether any addition or alteration is a
necessary repair not affecting the position or dimensions of a building or room in
a building therein, such question shall be referred to the standing committee,
248.
whose decision shall be final.
Demolition or alteration of buildings or well work unlawfully
commenced, carried on or completed.- (1) If the Zonal Commissioner is satisfied,-
(i)
that the construction or re-construction of any building or hut or well,-
(a)
has been commenced without obtaining his permission or
where an appeal or reference has been made to the standing
Page 102/159
----- PAGE 103 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
committee, in contravention of any order passed by the standing
committee; or
(b)
is being carried on, or has been completed otherwise than in
accordance with the plans or particulars on which such permission
or order was based; or
(c)
is being carried on, or has been completed in breach of any
of the provisions of this Act or of any rule or bye-law made under
this Act or of any direction or requisition lawfully given or made
under this Act or such rules or bye-laws; or
(ii)
that any alteration required by any notice issued under section 308,
have not been duly made; or
(iii)
that any alteration of or addition to any building or hut or any other
work made or done for any purpose into, or upon any building or hut, has
been commenced or is being carried on or has been completed in breach of
section 247, he may make a provisional order requiring the owner of the
building to demolish the work done, or so much of it as, in the opinion of
the Zonal Commissioner, has been unlawfully executed, or make such
alterations as may, in the opinion of the Zonal Commissioner, be
necessary to bring the work into conformity with the Act, rules, bye-laws,
directions or requisitions as aforesaid, or with the plans or particulars on
which such permission or orders was based and may also direct that until
the said order is complied with the owner or builder shall refrain from
proceeding with the building or well or hut.
(2)
The Zonal Commissioner shall serve a copy of the provisional order
made under sub-section (1) on the owner or builder of the building or hut or well
together with a notice requiring him to show cause within a reasonable time to be
named in such notice why the order should not be confirmed.
(3)
If the owner or builder fails to show cause to the satisfaction of the
Zonal Commissioner, the Zonal Commissioner may confirm the order, with any
modification he may think fit and such order shall then be binding on the owner.
(4)
If the construction or reconstruction of any building or hut is
223. commenced contrary to the provisions of section 240 and the Zonal
Commissioner is of the opinion that immediate action should be taken, then,
notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, a notice to be given under sub-
section (2) shall not be of less duration than twenty-four hours and shall be
deemed to be duly served if it is affixed in some conspicuous part of the building
or hut to which the notice relates and published by proclamation at or near such
building accompanied by beat of drum, and upon such affixation and publication,
all persons concerned shall be deemed, to have been duly informed of the matters
249.
stated therein.
Regularisation of certain unlawful buildings.- (1) Notwithstanding
anything contained in this Act, when construction of any building is completed in
239. contravention of the section 240, section 245 and building by laws made under section
Page 103/159
----- PAGE 104 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
, the Zonal Commissioner may regularise building constructed prior to the date of
commencement of the Karnataka Town and Country Planning and certain other Laws
(Amendment)
Act, 2013 subject to the following restrictions and such rules as may be
prescribed and on payment of the amount specified in sub-section (2), namely:-
(a)
Where the building is built abutting the neighbouring property or where
the set back provided is less than the limit prescribed in bye laws, violation
upto twenty-five percent in case of non-residential buildings and fifty percent
in case of residential buildings shall be regularized.
(b)
No development made in the basement or usage in contravention of bye
law shall be regularized.
(c)
The construction of building shall not be regularised if it violates the
building line specified on any given road unless the owners of such building
furnish an undertaking that the space between the building line and the road
or footpath or margin will be given up free of cost at any time when required
for the purpose of widening the road in question.
(d)
The provisions of sub-sections (2) to (14) of section 76 FF of the
Karnataka Town and Country Planning Act, 1961, shall apply mutatis
mutandis for regularization of building under this section and application for
regularization being made to the Zonal Commissioner.
(2)
Regularisation of any construction under this section shall be subject to
payment of the prescribed amount which may be different for different types of
contravention of building bye-laws:
Provided that the amount so prescribed shall not be less than,-
(i)
six percent of the market value, determined in accordance with the
Karnataka Stamp Act, 1957 and rules made thereunder, of the portion of
the building built in violation of the provisions referred to above, if such
violation of set back norms and permissible floor area ratio does not exceed
twenty five percent;
(ii)
eight percent of the market value, determined in accordance with the
Karnataka Stamp Act, 1957 and the rules made thereunder, of the portion
of the building built in violation of the provisions referred to above, if such
violation of set back norms and permissible floor area ratio exceeds twenty
five percent but does not exceed fifty percent:
Provided further that where the portion of the building is built in violation of
the provisions referred to above is being used or meant for non-residential
purpose and amount payable for regularization of such portion shall be,-
(a)
twenty percent of the market value, determined in accordance
with the Karnataka Stamp Act, 1957 and the rules made thereunder, of the
224. portion of the building built in violation of the provisions referred to above,
if such violation of set back norms and permissible floor area ratio does not
exceed twelve and a half percent;
(b)
Page 104/159
----- PAGE 105 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
thirty five percent of the market value, determined in accordance
with the Karnataka Stamp Act, 1957 and the rules made thereunder, of the
portion of the building built in violation of the provisions referred to above,
if such violation of set back norms and permissible floor area ratio exceeds
twelve and a half percent but does not exceed twenty five percent.
(3)
No person shall be liable to pay fine or fee for regularization under any
other law if he has paid regularization fee under this Act for the same violations.
(4)
All payments made under sub-section (1) shall be credited to a separate
fund kept in the concerned Local/Planning Authority called the urban areas
infrastructure Development fund which shall be utilized in such manner, for the
development of infrastructure, civic amenities, lighting, parks, drinking water,
250.
drainage system and for any other infrastructure, as may be prescribed.
Power of corporation to regulate future construction of certain classes
of buildings in particular streets or localities.- (1) The corporation may give public
notice of its intention to declare,-
(a)
that in any streets or portions of streets specified in the notice,-
(i)
continuous building will be allowed;
(ii)
the elevation and construction of the frontage of all buildings
thereafter constructed or reconstructed shall, in respect of their architectural
features be such as the standing committee may consider suitable to the locality,
or
(b)
that in any localities specified in the notice the construction of only
detached buildings will be allowed, or
(c)
that in any streets, portions of streets of localities specified in the
notice, the construction of shops, warehouses, factories, huts or buildings of a
specified architectural character or buildings designed for particular uses will not
be allowed without the special permission of the standing committee.
(2)
No objections to any such declaration shall be received after a period
of three months from the publication of such notice.
(3)
The standing committee shall consider all objections received within
the said period and may then confirm the declaration, and before doing so, may
modify it, but not so as to extend its effect.
(4)
The Zonal Commissioner shall publish any declaration so confirmed
and it shall take effect from the date of publication.
(5)
No person shall, after the date of publication of such declaration,
251.
construct or reconstruct any building in contravention of any such declaration.
Building at corner of streets.- (1) The corporation may require any
building intended to be erected at the corner of two streets to be rounded off or displayed
Page 105/159
----- PAGE 106 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
off to such height and to such extent otherwise as it may determine, and may acquire
such portion of the site at the corner as it may consider necessary for public convenience
or amenity.
(2)
For any land so acquired the corporation shall pay compensation in
accordance with the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in land
Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013 (Central Act 30 of 2013).
(3)
In determining such compensation allowance shall be made for any
225. benefit accruing to the same premises from the improvement of the streets.
252. Penalty against jurisdictional officer failing to prevent unauthorised
deviations or constructions.-The jurisdictional officer who is proved to have failed to
prevent unauthorized deviation or construction that have taken place in his jurisdiction
253.
shall be liable for such punishment as may be prescribed.
Appeal against the decisions of the zonal commissioner.-(1)Any person
aggrieved by the decision of the Zonal Commissioner under this Chapter shall, within
thirty days from the date of receipt of such decision, appeal to the Chief Commissioner
whose decision shall be final.
(2)
The Chief Commissioner shall decide any matters referred to it under
sub-section (1) within sixty days.
Chapter XVII
NUISANCE
254. Prohibition of nuisance.-(1)No person shall commit any nuisance in any
public street or public place, or
(a)
unauthorizedly affix upon any building, monument, post, wall, fence,
tree or any other public place, any bill, notice or other document, or
(b)
unauthorizedly deface, or write upon, or otherwise mark on a
building, monument, post, wall, fence, tree or any other public place,
(c)
carry rubbish, filth or other polluted and obnoxious matter along any
route in contravention of any prohibition made in this behalf by the Zonal
Commissioner by notice, or
(d)
bury or cremate or otherwise dispose of any corpse at a place not
licensed for the purpose, or
(e)
quarry, blast, cut timber or carry on building operations causing, or
likely to cause danger to persons passing by, or dwelling or working, in the
neighbourhood,
(f)
disturb public peace or order in violation of sound pollution control
order, if any, or
(g)
cause pollution of air in violation of an air pollution control order, if
any, or
(h)
cause obstruction to the movement of vehicular or pedestrian traffic
Page 106/159
----- PAGE 107 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
without permission from the competent authority.
(2)
Where the Zonal Commissioner or the officer authorised in this
behalf, is of the opinion that there is a nuisance as per sub-section (1) on any
land or building she may, by notice, in writing, require the person by whose act,
default or sufferance the nuisance arises or continues or all of the owners, lessees
or occupiers of such land or building to remove or abate the nuisance by taking
such measures, in such manner, and within such period, as may be specified in
the notice in accordance, wherever applicable, with the provision of the
35. Karnataka Open Places(Prevention of Disfigurement) Act, 1981 (Karnataka Act No
of 1982).
(3)
Where the Zonal Commissioner or the officer authorised in this
behalf, is of the opinion that immediate, removal of any nuisance as per sub-
section(1) continuing on any land or building in contravention of the provisions of
this Act is necessary, she may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, cause such
nuisance to be removed forthwith in accordance, wherever applicable, with the
provision of the Karnataka Open Places(Prevention of Disfigurement) Act, 1981.
(4)
Any person or group of persons who fails to comply with any order
226. under this section shall be liable to a penalty as prescribed or in accordance
wherever applicable, with the provision of the Karnataka Open Places (Prevention
255.
of Disfigurement) Act, 1981 (Karnataka Act No 35 of 1982).
Control of pollution and polluter pays principle.-(1)Subject to the
provisions of any law relating to air, water or noise pollution, for the time being in force
and in accordance with any notification by the State Government in that behalf, the
Corporation may function as a competent authority for the enforcement of such law.
(2)
The Corporation may, by regulation, provide for recovery of charges
and imposition of penalty on those persons who are directly responsible for
256.
causing pollution of any kind referred to in this chapter.
Precautions in case of dangerous structures.- (1) If any structure be
deemed by the Chief Commissioner to be in a ruinous state or dangerous to passers by
or to the occupiers of neighbouring structures, the Chief Commissioner may, by notice
require the owner or occupier to fence off, take down, secure or repair such structure so
as to prevent any danger therefrom.
(2)
If immediate action is necessary, the Chief commissioner may himself,
before giving such notice or before the period of notice expires, fence off, take
down, secure or repair such structure or fence off a part of any street or take
such temporary measures as he thinks fit to prevent danger and the cost of doing
so shall be recoverable from the owner or occupier as arrears of land revenue.
(3)
If in the Chief Commissioner's opinion the said structure is imminently
dangerous to the inmates thereof, the Chief Commissioner shall order the
immediate evacuation thereof and any persons disobeying may be removed by
257.
any police officer.
Precautions in case of dangerous trees.- (1) If any tree or any branch of a
Page 107/159
----- PAGE 108 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
tree or the fruit of any tree be deemed by the Chief Commissioner to be likely to fall and
thereby to endanger any person or any structure, the Chief Commissioner may by notice
require the owner of the said tree to secure, lop or cut down the said tree or remove the
fruit so as to prevent any danger therefrom.
(2)
If immediate action is necessary, the Chief Commissioner may himself
before giving such notice or before the period of notice expires secure, lop or cut
down the said tree or remove the fruit thereof or fence off a part of any street or to
take such temporary measure, as he thinks fit to prevent danger, and the cost of
so doing shall be recoverable from the owner of the tree as arrears of land
258.
revenue.
Precautions in case of dangerous tanks, wells, holes etc.- (1) If any tank,
pond, well, hole, stream, dam, bank or other place be deemed by the Chief Commissioner
to be for want of sufficient repair, protection or enclosure, dangerous to the passers by or
to persons living in the neighbourhood, the Chief Commissioner may by notice require
the owner to fill in, remove, repair, protect or enclose the same so as to prevent any
danger therefrom.
(2)
If immediate action is necessary the Chief Commissioner may himself,
before giving such notice or before the period of notice expires, take such
temporary measures as hethinks fit to prevent danger and the cost of doing so
259.
shall be recoverable from the owner as arrears of land revenue.
Precautions against fire.- (1) The Chief Commissioner may by notice
require the owner of any structure, booth or tent, partly or entirely composed of or
having any external roof, verandah, pendal, fence, or wall partly or entirely composed of
cloth, grass, leaves, mats or other inflammable materials to remove or alter such
structure, booth, tent, roof, verandah, pendal, fence or wall, or may grant him
permission to retain the same on such conditions as the Chief Commissioner may think
227. necessary to prevent danger from fire.
(2)
The Chief Commissioner may by notice require any person using any
place for the storage for private use of timber firewood or other combustible
things to take special steps to guard against danger from fire.
(3)
Where the Chief Commissioner is of opinion that the means of egress
from any structure are insufficient to allow of safe exit in the event of fire, he may
with the sanction of the standing committee by notice require the owner or
occupier of the structure to alter or reconstruct any staircase in such manner or
to provide such additional or emergency staircases as he may direct; and when
any structure, booth or tent is used for purposes of public entertainment, he may
require, subject to such sanction as aforesaid, that it shall be provided with an
adequate number of clearly indicated exits so placed and maintained as readily to
afford the audience ample means of safe egress, that the seating be so arranged
as not interfere with free access to the exits and that the gangways, passage and
staircases leading to the exits shall, during the presence of the public, be kept
260.
clear of obstructions.
Removal of filth or noxious vegetation.- The Chief Commissioner may by
notice require the owner or occupier of any building or land (which appears to him to be
Page 108/159
----- PAGE 109 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
in a filthy or unwholesome state or overgrown with any thick or noxious vegetation, trees
or undergrowth injurious to health or offensive to the neighbourhood), to cleanse, clear
or otherwise put the building or land in proper state or to clear away and remove such
vegetation, trees or under growth within twenty four hours or such longer period and in
261.
such manner as may be specified in the notice.
Abatement of nuisance from dust, smoke, etc.- If in the opinion of the
Chief Commissioner the storage, dumping or deposit in any building or land of coal,
charcoal, ashes, cinders, gunny bags, wool cotton or any material of the shifting,
breaking, cutting or burning of such coal charcoal, ashes, cinders or material or
subjecting the same to any process causes or is likely to cause nuisance to the
inhabitants in the neighbourhood of such building or land, by the emanation of dust,
floating particles, smoke, unwholesome smell or noise or otherwise, he may, by notice,
require the owner or occupier of such building of land to take such steps as may be
262.
specified in the notice for the abatement of such nuisance.
Fencing of buildings or lands and pruning of hedges and trees.- The
Chief Commissioner may by notice require the owner or occupier of any building or land
near a public street to,-
(a)
fence the same to the satisfaction of the Chief Commissioner; or
(b)
trim or prune any hedges bordering on the said street so that they
may not exceed such height from the level of the adjoining roadway as the
Chief Commissioner may determine; or
(c)
cut and trim any hedges and trees overhanging the said street and
obstructing it or the view of traffic or causing it damage; or
(d)
lower an enclosing wall or fence which by reason of its height and
263.
situation obstructs the view of traffic so as to cause danger.
Building unfit for human habitation.- (1) If any building or portion
thereof, intended for or used as a dwelling-place appears to the Chief Commissioner to be
unfit for human habitation he may apply to the standing committee to prohibit the
further use of such building for such purpose, and the standing committee may, after
giving the owner and occupiers thereof a reasonable opportunity of showing cause why
such order should not be made, make a prohibitory order as aforesaid.
(2)
When any such prohibitory order has been made, the Chief
Commissioner shall communicate the purport thereof to the owner and occupier
of the building and on expiry of such period as is specified in the notice, not being
228. less than thirty days after the service of the notice, no owner or occupier shall use
or suffer it to be used for human habitation until the Chief Commissioner certifies
in writing that the causes rendering it unfit for human habitation have been
removed to his satisfaction or the standing committee withdraws the prohibition.
(3)
When such prohibitory order has remained in operation for three
months, the Chief Commissioner shall report the case to the standing committee
which shall thereupon consider whether the building should not be demolished.
The standing committee shall give the owner not less than thirty days' notice of
Page 109/159
----- PAGE 110 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
the time and place at which the question will be considered and the owner shall
be entitled to be heard when the question is taken into consideration.
(4)
If upon such consideration the standing committee is of opinion that
the building has not been rendered fit for human habitation and that steps are
not being taken with due diligence to render it so fit and that the continuance
thereof is a nuisance or dangerous or injurious to the health of the public or to
the inhabitants of the neighbourhood, it shall record a decision, to that effect
with the grounds of the decision, and the Chief Commissioner shall, in pursuance
of the said decision by notice, require the owner to demolish the building.
(5)
If the owner undertakes to execute forthwith the works necessary to
render the building fit for human habitation and the Chief Commissioner
considers that it can be so made fit, the Chief Commissioner may postpone the
execution of the decision of the standing committee, for such time not exceeding
six months, as he thinks sufficient for the purpose of giving the owner an
264.
opportunity of executing the necessary works.
Limitation of compensation.- No person shall be entitled, save as
provided in section 283, to compensation for any damages sustained by reason of any
action taken by a Corporation authority in pursuance of its powers under this chapter.
Chapter XVIII
PUBLIC HEALTH
265. Duties of the Corporation with respect to public health.-It shall be the
duty of the Corporation, or any other agency authorized by it in this behalf, to take
adequate measures on the subject of public health including inspection, supervision,
regulation, and control of premises to ensure proper sanitation, prevent the spread of
dangerous diseases and undertake such measures necessary to maintain the necessary
266.
standards of public health.
Corporation?s power to order or undertake sanitation of buildings or
sites.-(1)Subject to such regulations as may be made in this behalf, the Zonal
Commissioner or any other officer authorised in this behalf may, either on her own or
through any other agency or officer authorized by him in this behalf ?
(a)
cause any building or other premises to be inspected for the purpose
of ascertaining the sanitary conditions thereof,
(b)
require the owner or the occupier of any land or building or any part
thereof to cleanse it, if it appears necessary so to do for reasons of sanitation,
(c)
issue such order as she deems necessary for the improvement of any
unsanitary premises which are likely to cause risk of disease to the inmates of
such premises or to the inhabitants of the neighbourhood or are, for any reason,
likely to endanger community health or safety,
(d)
by notice, prohibit the owner or the occupier from the use of any
building, or any room in a building, which appears to him to be unfit for human
habitation, as dwelling,
(e)
direct the filling up of any well, pool, ditch, tank, pond, pit or
Page 110/159
----- PAGE 111 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
229. undrained ground, cistern, or reservoir of any waste or stagnant water, which
appears to her to be, or likely to become, injurious to health or offensive to the
neighbourhood,
(f)
by notice, require the owner or person having control over any private
water course, spring, tank, well or other place the water of which is used for
drinking, bathing or washing clothes to keep the same in good repair, to cleanse
it in such manner to protect it from pollution,
(g)
by notice, direct the owner or occupier to cleanse of any building or
land, which appears to her, or likely to become, which if left unattended would be
injurious to public health. njurious to health or offensive to the neighbourhood.
(2)
Where the Zonal Commissioner or the officer authorised in this
behalf, is of the opinion that there is a threat to health or safety on any land or
building, he may, by notice, in writing, require the person by whose act, default
or sufferance said threat arises or continues or all of the owners, lessees or
occupiers of such land or building to remove or abate the same by taking such
measures, in such manner, and within such period, as may be specified in the
notice.
(3)
If immediate action is necessary, the Zonal Commissioner may
himself before giving such notice or before the period of notice expires secure,
take such measures, as he thinks fit to prevent the threat to health or safety, and
the cost of so doing shall be recoverable from the owner or occupier of the
267.
building or land in the manner specified in the bye-laws.
Power to notify dangerous Diseases.-(1) On notification of the Corporation
of the existence of any dangerous disease in any public or private dwelling in the
corporation area, the Zonal Commissioner may undertake such measures as necessary
for the prevention of the dangerous disease
(2)
The Zonal Commissioner, or any officer authorised in this behalf, if it
appears reasonable to him inspect any place in which any dangerous disease is
reported or suspected to exist and take such measures as he may think fit to
prevent the spread of such disease beyond such place.
(3)
In the event of prevalence of a dangerous disease within a
corporation area, the Zonal Commissioner may, by notice, require the owner or
occupier of any building or site used for the purpose of public entertainment to be
268.
closed for such period as it may deem necessary.
Disinfection of buildings and articles;- (1) If the Zonal Commissioner or
health officer is of opinion that the cleansing or disinfecting of a building or of any part
thereof, or of any article therein, which is likely to retain infection, will tend to prevent or
check the spread of any dangerous disease, he may by notice, require the owner or
occupier to cleanse or disinfect the same, in the manner and within the time specified in
such notice.
(2)
The owner or occupier shall, within the time specified as aforesaid,
comply with the terms of the notice.
Page 111/159
----- PAGE 112 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
(3)
If the Zonal Commissioner or health officer considers that immediate
action is necessary, or that the owner or occupier is, by reason of poverty or
otherwise, unable effectually to comply with his requisition, the Zonal
Commissioner or health officer may himself without notice cause such buildings,
or article to be cleansed or disinfected, and for this purpose may cause such
article to be removed from the building or premises; and the expenses incurred by
the Zonal Commissioner or health officer shall be recoverable from the said owner
230. or occupier.
269. Provision of places for disinfection and power to destroy infected
articles (1) The Zonal Commissioner may,-
(a)
provide proper places with all necessary attendants and apparatus
for the disinfection of conveyances, clothing, bedding or other articles, which
have been exposed to infection from any dangerous disease; and
(b)
cause conveyances, clothing, bedding or other articles brought for
disinfection to be disinfected free of charge, or subject to such charges, as
may be approved by the standing committee.
(2)
The Zonal Commissioner shall notify places at which conveyance,
clothing, bedding or other articles which have been exposed to infection from any
dangerous disease shall be washed and disinfected and no person shall wash or
disinfect any such article at any place not so notified.
(3)
The Zonal Commissioner may direct any clothing, bedding or other
article likely to retain infection from any dangerous disease to be disinfected or
270.
destroyed.
Power to order closure of places of public entertainment.- In the event
of prevalence of any dangerous disease within the city, the Chief Commissioner may,
with the sanction of the standing committee, by notice require the owner or occupier of
any building, booth or tent used for purposes of public entertainment to close the same
271.
for such period as may be fixed by the standing committee.
Prohibition against transfer of infected articles.- No person shall,
without previously disinfecting it, give, lend, let, hire, sell, transmit or otherwise dispose
of, any article which he knows or has reason to know has been exposed to infection from
any dangerous disease:
Provided that nothing in this section shall apply to a person who transmits
272.
with proper precautions any article for the purpose of having it disinfected.
Prohibition against infected person carrying on occupation.- If any
person knows or has been certified by the health officer or a registered medical
practitioner in the service of the Government or the corporation that he is suffering from
a dangerous disease he shall not engage in any occupation or carry on trade or business
273.
unless he can do so without risk of spreading the disease.
Prohibition against diseased person entering public conveyance.- (1)
No person who is suffering from any dangerous disease shall enter a public conveyance
without previously notifying to the owner or driver or person in charge of such
Page 112/159
----- PAGE 113 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
conveyance that he is so suffering.
(2)
No owner or driver or person in charge of a public conveyance shall be
bound to convey any person suffering as aforesaid, unless and until the said
person pays or tenders a sum sufficient to cover any loss and costs that may be
incurred in disinfecting such conveyance.
(3)
A court convicting any person of contravening sub-section (1) may levy,
in addition to the penalty for the offence provided in this Act, such amount as the
court deems sufficient to cover the loss and costs which the owner or driver must
incur for the purpose of disinfecting the conveyance. The amount so imposed
shall be awarded by the court to the owner or driver of the conveyance: Provided
that in a case which is subject to appeal, such amount shall not be paid to the
owner or driver before the period allowed for presenting the appeal has elapsed or
if an appeal is presented, before the decision of the appeal.
(4)
At the time of awarding compensation in any subsequent civil suit
relating to the same matter, the court shall take into account any sum which the
231. plaintiff shall have received under this section.
274. Disinfection of public conveyance after carriage of patients.- (1) The
owner, driver or person in charge of any public conveyance in which any person suffering
from a dangerous disease has been carried, shall forthwith disinfect the conveyance or
cause it to be disinfected.
(2)
No such conveyance shall be used until the health officer or some person
authorised by him in this behalf has granted a certificate stating that it may be
275.
used without causing risk of infection.
Letting of infected building.- (1) No person shall let or sub-let or for that
purpose allow any person to enter a building or any part of a building in which he knows
or has reason to know that a person has been suffering from a dangerous disease until
the health officer has granted a certificate that such building may be re-occupied.
(2)
For the purpose of sub-section (1), the keeper of a hotel or lodging house
shall be deemed to let the same or part of the same to any person accommodated
276.
therein.
Minor suffering from dangerous disease not to attend school.- No
person being the parent or having the care of charge of a minor who is or has been
suffering form a dangerous disease or has been exposed to infection there from shall,
after a notice from the health officer that the minor is not to be sent to school or college,
permit such minor to attend school or college without having procured from the health
officer a certificate (which shall be granted free of charge on application) that in his
opinion such minor may attend without undue risk of communicating such disease to
277.
others.
Provision as to library books.- (1) No person who is suffering from an
infectious disease shall take any book or use or cause any book to be taken for his use
from or in any public or circulating library.
(2)
A person shall not permit any book which has been taken from a public or
Page 113/159
----- PAGE 114 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
circulating library, and is under his control, to be used by any person whom he
knows to be suffering from an infectious disease.
(3)
A person shall not return to any public or circulating library any book
which he knows to have been exposed to infection from any infectious disease, or
permit any such book which is under his control to be so returned, but shall give
notice to the Chief Commissioner that the book has been so exposed to infection
and the Chief Commissioner shall cause the book to be disinfected and returned
to the library, or to be destroyed.
(4)
The Chief Commissioner shall pay to the proprietor of the concerned
library the value of any book destroyed. Explanation.- For the purposes of this
section the Commissioner shall from time to time notify what diseases are to be
278.
deemed infectious.
Power to prohibit use of water likely to spread infection.- If the health
officer certifies that the water in any well, tank or other place within the limits of the city
is likely, if used for drinking, to endanger or cause the spread of any dangerous disease,
the Chief Commissioner may, by public notice, prohibit the removal or use of such water
279.
for drinking and domestic purposes during a specified period.
Compulsory vaccination.- The corporation shall enforce vaccination
throughout the city in such manner as may be prescribed and it may enforce vaccination
throughout the city or in any part thereof, in respect of such person, to such extent and
280.
in such manner as may be prescribed.
Obligation to give information of dangerous disease.- Where an inmate
of any dwelling place within the city is suffering from dangerous disease, the head of the
family to which the inmate belongs and, on his default, the occupier or person in charge
of such place, shall inform the Chief Commissioner, the health officer or the sanitary
232. inspector of the division with the least practicable delay.
281. Prohibition to enter the city.- No person who has a dangerous disease
shall enter the city from the date notified by the Chief Commissioner without a certificate
from a medical practitioner of such class as the Chief Commissioner may authorise
stating that such person is no longer likely to produce dangerous disease by contact or
282.
near approach.
Power to stop dangerous quarrying.- If in the opinion of the Chief
Commissioner, the working of any quarry, or the removal of stone, earth or other
materials from any place is dangerous to persons residing in or having legal access to the
neighbourhood thereof or creates or is likely to create a nuisance, the Chief
Commissioner, may, with the approval of the standing committee, by notice, require the
owner or person having control of the said quarry or place to discontinue working the
same or to discontinue removing stone, earth or other material from such place or to
take such order with such quarry or place, as he shall deem necessary for the purpose of
283.
preventing danger or of abating the nuisance arising or likely to arise therefrom.
Power to order filling in pools, etc., which are a nuisance and
regulation of agriculture within the city.- (1) If in the opinion of the Chief
Commissioner,-
(a)
Page 114/159
----- PAGE 115 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
any pool, ditch, tank, well, pond, bog, swamp, quarry-hole, drain,
cess-pool, pit, water-course or any collection of water; or
(b)
any land on which water may at any time accumulate, is or is
likely to become a breeding-place of mosquitoes or in any other respect a
nuisance, the Chief Commissioner may, by notice, require the owner or person
having control thereof to fill up, cover, weed, stock with weed, stock with
larvicidal fish, treat with kerosene oil, or drain off the same in such manner
and with such materials as the Chief Commissioner shall direct or to take such
order with the same for removing or abating the nuisance as the Chief
Commissioner shall direct.
(2)
If a person on whom a requisition is made under sub section (1) to fill
up, cover over, or drain off a well, delivers to the Chief Commissioner, within the
time fixed for compliance therewith written objections to such requisition the
Chief Commissioner shall report such objections to the standing committee and
shall make further inquiry into the case, and he shall not institute any
prosecution for failure to comply with such requisition except with the approval of
the standing committee, but the Chief Commissioner may nevertheless, if he
deems the execution of the work called for by such requisition to be of urgent
importance, proceed in accordance with section 356 and pending the standing
committee's disposal of the question whether the said well shall be permanently
filled up, covered over or otherwise dealt with, may cause such well to be securely
covered over, so as to prevent the ingress of mosquitoes and in every such case
the Chief Commissioner shall determine with the approval of the standing
committee, whether the expenses of any work already done as aforesaid shall be
paid by the owner or by the Chief Commissioner out of the corporation fund or
shall be shared and if so, in what proportions.
(3)
On the report of the health officer that the cultivation of any specified
crop, or the use of any specified manure or the irrigation of land in any place
within the limits of the city is injurious to the public health, the corporation may,
with the previous sanction of the Government by public notice, regulate or
prohibit the cultivation, use of manure or irrigation so reported to be injurious:
Provided that when such cultivation or irrigation has been practised during
the five years preceding the date of such public notice with such continuity as the
233. ordinary course of husbandry admits of, compensation shall be paid from the
corporation fund to all persons interested for any damage caused to them by
such prohibition.
Chapter XIX
DISASTER MANAGEMENT
284. Management of disasters.-(1) The Corporation shall, assist the concerned
authorities of the Central Government or the State Government established for the
prevention or management of any natural calamity in such manner as it may be directed
to do so.
(2)
Subject to any law of the State Legislature or the Parliament, the
Corporation shall undertake all measures necessary while performing its
regulatory and supervisory functions under this Act to mitigate any risk of
natural or technological calamity
(3)
Page 115/159
----- PAGE 116 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
The Corporation shall prepare a Fire Hazard Response and Mitigation
Plan every year as prescribed by the State Government after previous publication
and publish the Plan in the Official Gazette.
Chapter XX
WASTE MANAGEMENT
285. Duty of the Corporation in handling solid waste.-(1)It shall be the duty
of the Corporation, either through an agency or through its own to implement the
provisions of the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016 to regulate the management and
handling of municipal solid waste and for the development of any infrastructure for
collection, storage, transportation, processing and disposal of such solid wastes.
(2)
The Corporation shall also prepare a solid waste management plan in
accordance with the policy of the state and implement this strategy.
(3)
The Corporation shall also train waste pickers and collectors on solid
waste management.
(4)
The Corporation shall also involve communities in waste
management and shall promote home composting and other such processes at
the community level.
(5)
The Corporation shall create public awareness through information
286.
about the need for ensuring proper waste management.
Entrustment of management and handling of solid wastes and billing
and collection of charges.-Notwithstanding anything contained elsewhere in this Act,
for the purposes of management and handling of municipal solid wastes and for
development of infrastructure, if any, for collection, storage, transportation, processing
and disposal of such solid wastes, a charge shall be levied, and payment thereof shall be
made, at such rate as the Corporation may fix, from time to time:
Provided that, the charge as aforesaid shall, as far as practicable, be such
as shall cover the costs on account of management and handling of municipal
solid wastes and development of infrastructure, if any, for collection, storage,
287.
transportation, processing and disposal thereof.
Identification of places for disposal and final disposal of solid waste.-
The Corporation may, either on its own or through any other agency, cause the solid
wastes to be disposed of at such place or places within or outside the Corporation area,
and in such manner, as it considers suitable:
Provided that the solid wastes shall not be finally disposed of in any
288.
manner which the Government may think fit to disallow.
Duty of owners and occupiers of premises to store solid wastes at the
source of the generation.-It shall be the duty of the owners and the occupiers of all
234. lands and building in the Corporation area. ?
(1)
to have the premises swept and cleaned on a regular basis;
(2)
to provide for separate receptacles or disposal bags for the storage of
(a)
organic and bio-degradable wastes,
Page 116/159
----- PAGE 117 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
(b)
recyclable or non-bio-degradable wastes, and
(c)
domestic hazardous wastes so as to ensure that these different
types of wastes do not get mixed;
(d)
to keep such receptacles in good condition and order; and
(e)
to cause all such wastes, including rubbish, any noxious or
offensive matter, night soil, filth, , dung, bones, ashes, carcasses
of dead animals, bio-medical wastes and other polluted and
obnoxious matters to be collected from their respective premises
and to be deposited in community bins or receptacles at such
times and in such places as the Zonal Commissioner may, by
289.
notice, specify.
Duty of the corporation for handling different types of waste.-
(1)
Bio-medical waste:
It shall be the duty of the Corporation, through an agency or by itself
to implement the provisions of the rules prescribed under this Act.
(2)
E-waste:
It shall be the duty of the Corporation, through an agency to
implement the provisions of the rules prescribed under this Act.
(3)
Plastic waste:
It shall be the duty of the Corporation to implement the provisions of
290.
the of the rules prescribed under this Act.
Responsibilities of commercial waste generators.- (1) The Waste
Generators such as Street Vendors shall segregate the Solid Waste generated during the
course of its activity such as food waste, disposable plates, cups, cans, wrappers,
coconut shells, leftover food, vegetables, fruits and similar items.
(2)
Every Occupier of any Premises who generates poultry, fish and
slaughter waste as a result of any commercial activity, shall store such waste
separately in a closed and hygienic condition and such waste shall not be mixed
291.
with any other category of Solid Waste.
Functions of the Ward Committee.- (1) The Ward Committee shall
organize collection of municipal solid wastes through any of the methods, like
community bin collection, house-to-house collection, and collection on regular pre-
informed times and schedules;
(2)
The Ward Committee shall devise collection of wastes from slums and
squatter areas or other localities including hotels, restaurants, office complexes
and commercial areas;
(3)
The Ward Committee shall remove at regular intervals all solid
wastes so collected under clause (1) and clause (2) for disposal on daily basis,
Page 117/159
----- PAGE 118 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
and
(4)
The Ward Committee shall arrange for making use of biodegradable
wastes from slaughterhouses, meat and fish markets, and fruits and vegetable
markets in an environmentally acceptable manner.
(5)
The Ward Committee shall also ensure that solid waste is collected
from public spaces such as parks, markets, roads, streets, gardens and similar
235.
areas that fall within the respective ward.
292. Duties of Ward Committees with regards to waste management.-
(1)
The Ward Committees established under this Act shall work with the
Corporation for proper solid waste management and sanitation work in the ward.
(2)
The Ward Committees will prepare Ward action plan which shall take
into account consideration the Ward requirement, budgetary allocations,
infrastructure requirement while aligning it with the Ward Micro Plan and other
policies of the Corporation.
(3)
The Ward Committee shall asses the type and quantity of Solid Waste
generated in the Ward, existing processing capacity, plans for additional
processing and facilities.
(4)
The requirements and targets identified in the Ward action plan shall
be monitored regularly by the Ward Committee.
(5)
In accordance with the Ward Action Plan, the Ward Committees shall
assess the type and quantity of waste generated, manner of waste collection and
waste processing and such other facilities that may help in proper waste
management in their respective wards.
(6)
The Ward Plan shall also take into consideration the various
categories of waste, collection points and vehicles for waste collection and such
other information as is required for the implementation of the Solid Waste
Management Rules, 2016.
(7)
Such a plan shall be regularly monitored and reviewed under the
aegis of the Zonal Commissioner and he may appoint such other officers on his
behalf to carry out the said review.
(8)
The Zonal Commissioner or the officer appointed on his behalf shall
have the authority to inspect and shall prepare a report in this regard which is to
be reviewed by the Corporation. For the purpose of inspection, the officer shall
have the right to enter any place, at all reasonable times, for the purposes of
complying with the Ward Action Plan.
(9)
The Ward Committee shall deliberate on the action taken by the
Corporation and take necessary steps that are required to comply with the
recommendations set out in such report.
(10)
Page 118/159
----- PAGE 119 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
The Ward Committee shall formulate a committee that shall comprise
of concerned citizens in each ward to survey and provide regular reports for
monitoring cleanliness, collection of solid waste and to participate in the
organisation of cleanliness drives or awareness campaigns in their Ward.
(11)
There shall be periodic meetings of the said committee with the Ward
committee to ensure the implementation of redressal of issues highlighted in the
293.
reports prepared by the Waste Management Committee.
Ward Micro Plan.-(1) The Corporation shall create a solid waste
management plan for every block in a Ward and ensure its implementation along with
the Ward Committee. The Ward Micro Plan shall contain the collection times for different
categories of Solid Waste, details of the collection vehicles and points, Block-wise map of
the Ward, roads/streets for street sweeping, manpower and other information required
for effective implementation of the solid waste management as may be considered
appropriate by Corporation.
(2)
The Zonal Committee shall committee shall conduct regular checks
in various parts of the Wards and other places of collection, transportation,
processing and disposal of Solid Waste within its territorial limits to supervise
236. compliance of various provisions of SWM Rules and this Act.
(3)
The Corporation may authorize officers who shall monitor and review
the implementation of the Ward micro plan and prepare Ward action report on a
monthly basis for onward submission to the Zonal Commissioner of the
Corporation.
(4)
Such an officer shall have the right to enter, at all reasonable times,,
with such assistance as he considers necessary, any place for the purpose of ,-
(a)
performing any of the functions entrusted to him by the Corporation or
(b)
determine compliance of the provisions of this Act.
(5)
The Corporation shall publicise the manner of segregation through
the media, signs, advertisement, leaflets, announcement on radio and televisions,
newspapers and through any other appropriate means, so that all citizens are
made aware about the duties of citizens and the Corporation in relation to
294.
segregation, recycling, littering, nuisance, penalties and fines.
Training and public awareness.-The Corporation shall undertake training
to educate its staff, informal waste pickers/collectors on collecting and transporting of
Solid Waste in a segregated manner and processing the Solid Waste in a manner set out
295.
in the Solid Waste Management Rules and under this Act.
Reduction of waste by the Corporation.-The Corporation shall make
efforts to minimise and reduce the generation of Solid Waste by discouraging the
production, sale and consumption of products containing unnecessary packaging
296.
material, disposable products through awareness programs and provision of incentives.
Penalties for contravention of waste management.- (1) Whosoever
Page 119/159
----- PAGE 120 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
contravenes or fails to comply with any of the provisions of the Waste Management rules
or bye-laws shall be punished with a fine of not more than rupees two lakhs as
determined by such applicable rules or byelaws.
(2)
The Corporation shall also take appropriate action including the
imposition of penalties initiation of disciplinary action against those employees
who fail to discharge their functions in accordance with the Act or through any
297.
Rules or Byelaws that may be issued for this purpose.
Waste generated during public gatherings.-(1) Every person who
organizes an event or gathering of more than hundred people at any licensed place shall
ensure the segregation of solid waste in such manner as may be prescribed.
(2)
Each person shall also ensure that cleanliness of the area after the
event where the Solid waste is segregated, collected and processed in accordance
with the law as prescribed.
(3)
The procedure for managing waste generated during public
gatherings shall be prescribed by byelaws thereunder.
CHAPTER ? XXI
298.
URBAN HERITAGE
Protection, Conservation and Maintenance of Urban Heritage.-
(1)
The Corporation shall be responsible ?
(a)
To conserve or preserve heritage buildings or sites and heritage
areas of historical, architectural, cultural, environmental or ecological
significance or sites of scenic beauty that they are not adversely affected by
any new development within the jurisdiction of the Corporation;
(b)
To enhance the elements of urban design and built character
including landscape of the city;
(c)
To provide the guidelines with regard to demolition, protection,
conservation or re-building of and alterations or additions to the existing
237. building those are to be designated and conserved in heritage areas.
(2)
The Corporation shall issue regulations or bye-laws for the
implementation of this chapter in accordance with those orders, rules,
regulations, bye-laws or guidelines issued by the Central Government or the State
299.
Government from time to time.
Preparation of List of Heritage Sites Including Heritage Buildings,
Heritage Precincts and Listed Natural Features Areas.-(1)The Chief Commissioner
shall prepare and supplement a list of heritage sites including Heritage Buildings,
Heritage Precincts and listed Natural Features Areas on the advice of the Heritage
Conservation Committee.
(2)
Before being finalized, objections and suggestions of the public are to
be invited and considered.
Page 120/159
----- PAGE 121 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
(3)
The list may be supplemented from time to time by the Chief
Commissioner upon the recommendations of the Government. When a building or
group of buildings or natural feature areas are listed it would mean, unless
otherwise indicated, that the entire property including its entire compound / plot
boundary along with all the subsidiary structures and artefacts, within the
300.
compound/ plot boundary, shall form part of the list.
Incentives for Heritage Buildings.-The Corporation may provide
incentives to the owners or occupiers of heritage buildings included in the Heritage
Conservation List, in such manner as may be prescribed, which may include provision
financial support, exemption from property tax, and such other incentive as may be
deemed necessary to assist in the preservation of heritage buildings in the existing state,
and to preserve its heritage state with due repairs:
Provided that, if the heritage building is not maintained suitably or if the
heritage value of the building is spoiled in any manner, the incentives may be
301.
revoked and such penalties may be levied, as prescribed.
Appointment of a Heritage Conservation Committee.-(1)The State
Government shall constitute a Heritage Conservation Committee endowing it with such
powers and functions as may be prescribed.
(2)
The Chief Commissioner, on the advice of the Heritage Conservation
Committee, shall frame appropriate regulations for the protection, conservation
and maintenance of heritage buildings and sites in the city.
(3)
The Heritage Conservation Committee shall comprise of:
(i)
The Chief Commissioner Chairperson
(ii)
An Architect from Public Works
Department
Member
(iii)
A Structural Engineer with experience of
ten years in the field and membership of
the Institution of Engineers, India
Member
(iv)
An Architect having ten years of experience
nominated by the Government
Member
(v)
An Urban Designer nominated by the
Government
Member
(vi)
A Conservation Architect with five years of
experience nominated by the Government
Member
(vii)
Page 121/159
----- PAGE 122 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
An Environmentalist with in-depth
knowledge and ten years? experience in the
field nominated by the Government
238.
Member
(viii)
A Historian having in-depth knowledge and
ten years? experience in the field
nominated by the Government
Member
(ix)
A Natural historian having in-depth
knowledge and 10 years? experience in the
field nominated by the Government
Member
(x)
A Representative of the State
Archaeological Department
Member
(xi)
The Chief Town Planner, Town and
Country Planning Department
Member-Secretary
(4)
The Committee shall have the powers to co-opt up to three additional
members who may have related experience.
(5)
The working of the Committee shall be such as may be prescribed.
(6)
The tenure of the Chairperson and Members of the Committee, other
302.
than any official representative, shall be three years.
Grading of Heritage Buildings and Sites.-(1)The Heritage Buildings and
Heritage Precincts listed shall be graded into categories as laid down in Second Schedule
.
(2)
Any modification, repair, change in facade, interior or exterior, that could
alter the character of the building or site or precinct shall be made to the extent
permitted in Schedule II and in accordance to any orders, rules, regulations, bye-laws or
303.
guidelines issued to this effect.
Functions of the Heritage Conservation Committee.-The Heritage
Conservation Committee shall carry out the following functions ?
(a)
To undertake identification and listing of heritage buildings
and precincts which need to be notified as and recommend the same to the
Corporation for inclusion.
(b)
To recommend to the Corporation whether development
permission should be granted to the Heritage Buildings;
(c)
Page 122/159
----- PAGE 123 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
To evaluate the cost of repairs to be given to the owners for
conservation or maintenance of a listed building;
(d)
To approve special designs and guidelines for notified buildings
and control of height and essential façade characteristics of the buildings
and suggest suitable designs and adopting new materials for replacements
keeping the old form intact to the extent possible;
(e)
To frame special regulations for Heritage Buildings and
Heritage Precincts and furnish the same to the Corporation;
(f)
To undertake such actions as may be necessary for the
physical conservation and restoration of urban heritage buildings and sites
in the city;
(g)
To undertake such programs and projects for generating
awareness about heritage including educational programs, identification
and listing of heritage resources, conducting heritage walks, organizing
304.
lectures, seminars and conferences dedicated to heritage in the city.
Ownership not affected.-(1)Being listed as a heritage building requires the
usage of the building to be in harmony with the conditions prescribed for, based on its
Grade and does not impose any restriction on the sale or purchase of such a building
and does not require permission from the Corporation or Heritage Conservation
239. Committee.
(2)
The Corporation shall have the first right of refusal over sale of any
listed heritage building.
Chapter XXII
LICENSES AND FEES
305. Granting of license.-(1)The Zonal Commissioner shall have the power to
grant license in matters pertaining to the following subjects:
(a)
Establishment and operation of Markets either wholesale or retail;
(b)
Establishment and operation of Trade Establishments;
(c)
Establishment and operation of Slaughterhouses;
(d)
Establishment and operation of Restaurants;
(e)
Establishment and operation of Industries;
(f)
Establishment and operation of Commercial undertakings;
(g)
Establishment and operation of Corporate Offices;
(h)
Establishment of Service apartments, paying guest accommodation;
(i)
Establishment and operation of Shared office and living spaces;
(j)
Page 123/159
----- PAGE 124 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
Establishment and operation of Hospitals and nursing homes;
(k)
Establishment and operation of Resthouses;
(l)
Establishment and operation of Theatres, fairs, circuses and places
of public amusement;
(m)
Establishment and operation of Milk Trade;
(n)
Keeping of animals and birds;
(o)
Establishment of Stables, cattle sheds and cow houses;
(p)
Providing for Places for burial of the dead;
(q)
Establishment of Food trucks or any cart stands;
(r)
Erection of Advertisements in public places
(2)
The manner of procuring license for matter pertaining to subjects
306.
specified under sub section (1) shall be provided for under the Rules or Byelaws.
Exemption of the Government from procuring license.-The State
Government or the Central Government shall not be required to procure a license from
the Corporation in respect of any place in the occupation or under the control of or any
307.
property belonging to such Government.
Licenses and written permission to specify conditions on which they
are granted.-(1)Whenever it is provided in this Act that a licence or a written permission
may be given for any purpose, such licence or written permission shall specify the period
for which and the restrictions and conditions subject to which, the same is granted, and
shall be given under the signature of the Zonal Commissioner or of a Corporation officer
empowered to grant the same for that particular zone.
(2)
Every application for a license or permission shall be addressed to the
Zonal Commissioner every such license or written permission granted, shall be subject to
payment of such fee as may be fixed by the corporation in such manner as may be
prescribed, different rates may be fixed for different licences or permission by the
Corporation
(3)
Any license or written permission granted under this Act may be
suspended or revoked by the Zonal Commissioner, if any of its restrictions or
conditions are infringed or evaded by the person to whom the same has been
granted or if the said person is convicted of an infringement of any of the
provisions of this Act or of any bye-law made hereunder in any matter to which
240. such licence or permission relates.
(4)
If any premises are used in contravention of the terms of the license
granted or is being used even after the license has been suspended or revoked by
the Zonal Commissioner, the Zonal Commissioner may at any time by written
308.
Page 124/159
----- PAGE 125 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
notice require that the same shall be discontinued by the person so using it.
Power of the Zonal Commissioner to stop use of premises used in
contravention of licenses.-If the Zonal Commissioner is of the opinion that any eating
House, lodging house, hotel, boarding house, tea shop, coffee house, cafe, restaurant,
refreshment room or other place where the public are admitted for repose or for
consumption of any food or drink or where food is sold or prepared for sale or any
theatre, circus, cinema house, dancing hall or similar other place of public resort,
recreation or amusement is kept open without a licence or otherwise than in conformity
with the terms of a licence granted in respect thereof, he may stop the use of any such
premises for any such purpose for a specified period by such means as he may consider
309.
necessary
Inspection of places where sale is carried out.-The Zonal Commissioner
shall make provision for the constant and vigilant inspection of animals, carcasses, meat,
poultry, flesh, fish, fruit, vegetables, corn, bread, flour, milk, ghee, butter, oil and any
other articles exposed or hawked about for sale or deposited in or brought to any place
310.
for the purpose of sale or preparation for sale.
Power of the Zonal Commissioner for the purposes of inspection:(1)The
Zonal Commissioner or any person authorized by him in writing for the purpose may,
without notice, enter any slaughter house or any place where animals, poultry or fish
intended for food are exposed for sale or where articles of food are being manufactured or
exposed for sale at any time by day or night when the slaughter, exposure for sale or
manufacture is being carried on and inspect the same and any utensil or vessel used for
manufacturing, preparing or containing any such article.
(2)
If the Zonal Commissioner or any person so authorised by him has
reason to believe that in any place any animal intended for human food is being
slaughtered or any carcass is being skinned or cut up or that any food is being
manufactured, stored, prepared, packed, cleansed, kept or exposed for sale or
sold without, or otherwise than in conformity with a licence, he may enter any
such place without notice, at any time by day or night for the purpose of
satisfying himself whether any provision of this Act, bye-laws, or regulations or
any condition of a licence is being contravened.
(3)
No claim shall lie against the Zonal Commissioner or any person acting
under his authority or the Corporation for any damage or inconvenience caused
by the exercise of powers under this section or by the use of any force necessary
for effecting entry into any place under this section.
(4)
In any legal proceedings in respect of powers exercised under this
section in which it is alleged that any animals, poultry, fish or articles of food
were not kept, exposed, hawked about, manufactured, prepared, stored, packed
or cleansed for sale, or were not intended for human food, the burden of proof
311.
shall lie on the party so alleging.
Appeal to the Chief Commissioner.- (1) Any person aggrieved by any
notice issued or action taken or proposed to be taken by the Zonal Commissioner under
section 310 may appeal to the Chief Commissioner.
(2)
The decision of the Chief Commissioner shall be final.
Page 125/159
----- PAGE 126 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
312. Period of limitation for appeals.- In any case in which no time is laid
down in the foregoing provisions of this Act for the presentation of an appeal allowed
241. thereunder such appeal shall be presented,-
(a)
where the appeal is against an order granting a licence or permission,
within sixty days after the date of the publication of the order on the notice board
of the corporation; and
(b)
in other cases within sixty days after the date of receipt of the order or
313.
proceeding against which the appeal is made.
Summons to attend and give evidence or produce documents.- The
Zonal Commissioner may summon any person to attend before him, and to give evidence
or produce documents, as the case may be, in respect of any question relating to
taxation, or inspection, or registration or to the grant of any licence or permission under
314.
the provisions of this Act
Consequences of failure to obtain licences, etc., or breach of the
same.-(1) If, under this Act, or any rule, bye-law or regulation made under it the licence
or permission of the Corporation, the standing committee or Zonal Commissioner or
registration in the office of the Corporation is necessary for the doing of any act, and if
such act is done without such licence or permission or registration then,-
(a)
the Zonal Commissioner may, by notice, require the person so
doing such act to alter, remove, or as far as practicable restore to its original
state the whole or any part of any property, movable or immovable, public or
private, affected thereby within a time to be specified in the notice.
(b)
the Zonal Commissioner or any officer duly authorised by him
may also enter into or on any building or land where such act is done and
take all such steps as may be necessary to prevent the continuance of such
act; and
(c)
if no penalty has been specially provided in this Act for so doing
such act, the person so doing it shall be liable on conviction by a magistrate
to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees for every such offence.
(2)
No claim shall lie against the Zonal Commissioner or any other person for
any damage or inconvenience caused by the exercise of the power given under
this section or by the use of the force necessary for the purpose of carrying out
315.
the provisions of this section.
Recovery of expenses from persons liable and limitation or liability of
occupier.- (1) The Chief Commissioner may recover any reasonable expenses incurred
under section 358 from the person or any one of the persons to whom the notice,
requisition or order was addressed in the same manner as the tax on buildings or lands
and may in executing work or taking measures under section 358 utilise any materials
found on the property concerned or may sell them and apply the sale proceeds in or
towards the payment of the expenses incurred.
(2)
If the person to whom notice is given is the owner of the property in
Page 126/159
----- PAGE 127 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
respect of which it is given, the Chief Commissioner may (whether any action or
other proceeding has been brought or taken against such owner or not) require
the person if any, who occupies such property, or any part thereof, under the
owner to pay to the corporation instead to the owner the rent payable by him in
respect of such property, as it falls due, upto the amount recoverable from the
owner under sub-section (1) or to such smaller amount as the Chief
Commissioner may think proper, and any amount so paid shall be deducted from
the amount payable by the owner.
(3)
For the purpose of deciding whether action should be taken under
subsection (2) the Chief Commissioner may require any occupier of property to
furnish information as to the sum payable by him as rent on account of such
property and as to the name and address of the person to whom it is payable; and
242. such occupier shall be bound to furnish such information.
(4)
The provision of this section shall not affect any contract made between
any owner and occupier respecting the payment of expenses of any such work as
aforesaid.
Chapter XXIII
POWER REGARDING RULES AND BYELAWS
316. Power to make rules.-(1)The Government may, after previous publication,
by notification make rules for carrying out all or any of the purposes of this Act.
(2)
Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Government may, by
notification in the Official Gazette, make rules, which may include the following,-
(a)
conditions on which property may be acquired by the
Corporation or on which property vested in or belonging to the Corporation
may be transferred by sale, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise;
(b)
the preparation of plans and estimates for works which are to
be partly or wholly constructed at the expense of the Corporation and the
power of the Corporation authorities or Government officers to record
professional or administrative sanction to estimates;
(c)
the estimate of receipts and expenditure, returns, statements
and reports to be submitted by Corporations;
(d)
the moving of resolutions at the meeting of the Council;
(e)
the form of registers and returns of births and deaths, the
manner in which the registers shall be maintained, the dates on which
returns shall be filed and the officer before whom returns shall be
submitted;
(f)
the powers of auditors inspecting and superintending officers
and officers authorized to hold inquiries to summon and examine witnesses
and to compel the production of documents and all other matters
connected, with audit, inspection and superintendence.
(g)
registration of marriages at the instance of the parties
Page 127/159
----- PAGE 128 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
concerned containing such particulars as may be prescribed and issuance
of certificates thereof on application after realizing the prescribed fees for
such certificates;
(h)
preparation of development plans for the corporation area, its
approval and implementation;
(i)
functions of Ward Committees and Ward Sabhas; and
(j)
Right to information of the people on matters of corporation
administration and duties.
(k)
Method of recruitment and conditions of service of the
corporation officers and employees and the matters regarding deputation of
officers and employees from the department of State Audit and Accounts,
Health, Town and Country Planning and etc., of the Government.
(l)
any other matter which has to be or may be prescribed under
this Act.
(3)
The Government may, by notification, and after previous publication
make rules altering, adding to or cancelling any of Schedules to this Act.
(4)
A rule under this Act may be made with retrospective effect, and when
such a rule is made, the reasons for making the rule shall be specified in a
statement laid before both Houses of the State Legislature, and subject to any
modification made under sub-section (5), every rule made under this Act, shall
243. have effect as if enacted in this Act.
(5)
Every rule or notification made under this Act shall be laid as soon as
may be after it is made, before each House of the State Legislature while it is in
session, for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session
or in two or more successive sessions and if before the expiry of the session
immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both
Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or notification or both
Houses agree that the rule or notification should not be made, the rule or
notification shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no
effect as the case may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment
shall be without, prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that
317.
rule or notification.
Power to make regulations.- The Corporation may with the previous
approval of the Government by notification make regulations not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act and the rules made thereunder in respect of matters which are
318.
required to be provided for by regulations by this Act.
Power to make Bye-laws.-Subject to the provisions of this Act, the rules
and regulations, the Corporation may make Bye-laws with respect to the following
matters namely:-
(1)
for all matters expressly required or allowed by this Act to be provided
Page 128/159
----- PAGE 129 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
for by Bye-laws.
(2)
for the due performance by all officers and employees of the
corporation of the duties assigned to them;
(3)
any matter relating to the proceedings of the Corporation;
(4)
for the regulation of the time and mode of collecting the taxes under
this Act;
(5)
for regulating the construction and maintenance of drains or pipes,
privies, urinals, washing places, drainage works belonging to the corporation or
other persons;
(6)
for regulating all matters connected to the use of water;
(7)
for regulating the management, maintenance, control and use of
houses intended for the poorer sections of the community vesting in the
Corporation;
(8)
for maintaining suitable means of access to buildings and preventing
encroachment thereon;
(9)
for regulating sanitation, the destruction of rodents and other
preventive and remedial measures against mosquitoes, flies and other insect
pests;
(10)
for facilitating and securing complete and accurate registration of
births and deaths;
(11)
for protection of the property of the corporation;
(12)
for regulating the holding of fairs and industrial exhibitions in the
City;
(13)
for regulating the measures to be taken in the event of the outbreak
of any disease among animals which is communicable to man and the supply of
information which will facilitate the taking of such measures;
(14)
for the maintenance of sufficient open space to secure a free
circulation of air and for the adequate ventilation of buildings;
(15)
for the control and supervision of public and private cart-stands, for
the regulation of their use and for the levy of fees therein;
(16)
for the regulation and licensing of foodtrucks
244
(17)
for the inspection of milch-cattle and the regulation of the ventilation,
lighting, cleaning drainage and water-supply of dairies and cattle-sheds in the
occupation of persons following the trade of dairyman or milk-seller
Page 129/159
----- PAGE 130 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
(18)
for enforcing the cleanliness of milk-stores and milk-shops and
vessels and utensils used by the keepers thereof or by hawkers for containing or
measuring milk or preparing any milk product and for enforcing the cleanliness
of persons employed in the milk trade;
(19)
for prescribing the qualifications and experience of architects,
engineers, structural designers and plumbers;
(20)
for the regulation of the use of public streets, and the closing thereof
or part thereof;
(21)
for the regulation of the laying of any cable including Optical Fibre
Cables and imposing the conditions thereof and levying of such fees;
(22)
for the regulation of the use of parks, gardens and other places that
come under the Corporation;
(23)
For the regulation and licensing of hotels, lodging houses, boarding
houses, theatres, fairs, choultries, rest houses, restaurants, eating houses, cafes,
refreshment rooms, coffee houses and any premises which is utilized by the
public for consumption of any food or drink or any place where any food or drink
is sold;
(24)
For the regulation and licensing of industries, commercial
undertakings and corporate offices;
(25)
For the regulation and licensing of paying guests accommodation and
service apartments;
(26)
For the regulation and licensing of shared office and living spaces;
(27)
For the regulation and licensing of hospitals and nursing homes;
(28)
for the sanitary control and supervision of factories and places used
for any of the purposes and of any trade or manufacture carried on therein
(29)
(a)
for the regulation of burial and burning and other places for the
burial of corpses;
(b)
for the levy of fees for the use of such burial and burning grounds
and crematoria as are maintained by the Corporation;
(c)
for the verification of deaths and the cause of death;
(30)
(a)
for the inspection of public and private markets and shops and
other places therein;
(b)
for the regulation of their use and the control of their sanitary
Page 130/159
----- PAGE 131 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
condition.
(31)
(a)
for the control and supervision of slaughter houses and of places
used for skinning and cutting up of carcasses;
(b)
for the control and supervision of the methods of slaughtering;
(c)
for the control and supervision of butchers carrying on business
in the city or at any slaughter-house outside the city provided or
licensed by the corporation;
(d)
controlling and regulating the sanitary condition of markets and
slaughter-houses and preventing the exercise of cruelty therein.
(32)
for the prevention of dangerous diseases of men or animals;
(33)
for the enforcement of compulsory vaccination;
(34)
for the prevention of out-breaks of fire;
(35)
for the prohibition and regulation of advertisements;
(36)
for the registration of marriages;
319.
245
Sanction of bye-laws by the Government.-No bye-law made by the
corporation under this Act shall have any validity unless and until it is sanctioned by the
Government:
Provided that, if the sanction is not accorded within one month the bye-
320.
laws shall be deemed to have been sanctioned.
Conditions precedent to making of bye-laws.-The power to make bye
laws under this Act is subject to the conditions, -
(1)
that a draft of the proposed bye-law is published in the Official Gazette and in
the local newspapers;
(2)
that the draft shall not further proceed until after the expiration of a period of
thirty days from the publication thereof in the Official Gazette or of such longer
period as the corporation may appoint;
(3)
that for at least thirty days, during such period a printed copy of the draft
shall be kept at the corporation office for public inspection and all persons are
321.
permitted to peruse the same at any reasonable time free of charge;
Power of the Government to make rules in lieu of bye-laws.- (1) If, in
respect of any of the matters specified in section 318, the corporation has failed to make
any bye-laws or if the bye-laws made by it are not, in its opinion adequate, the
Government may make rules providing for such matters to such extent as it may think
fit.
Page 131/159
----- PAGE 132 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
(2)
The rules made under this section, may add to, alter, or cancel any bye-
law made by the corporation.
(3)
Before making any rule under this section, the Government shall give the
322.
corporation an opportunity of showing cause against the making thereof.
Publication of rules, regulations and bye-laws.-(1) When any rule or bye-
law has been made under this Act, such rule or bye-law shall be published in the Official
Gazette in English and in Kannada.
(2)
A bye-law shall come into operation three months after it has been
published as aforesaid.
(3)
The Chief Commissioner shall cause all rules and bye-laws in force to be
printed in the said languages, and shall cause printed copies thereof to be sold to
any applicant on payment of a fixed price.
(4)
The Chief Commissioner shall advertise in the local newspapers that
copies of rules and bye-laws are for sale and specify the place where and the
person from whom and the price at which, they are obtainable.
(5)
Regulations made under this Act shall be published in such manner as
323.
the corporation may determine.
Exhibition of rules, bye-laws and regulations.-(1)Printed copies of
byelaws and of rules and regulations shall be hung up in some conspicuous part of the
corporation office.
(2)
No corporation officer or servant shall prevent any person from inspecting
at any reasonable time copies so exhibited.
(3)
No person shall, without lawful authority, destroy, pull-down, injure or
deface any copies exhibited as above or any board to which the copies have been
324.
affixed.
Cognizance of offences.- All offences against this Act, or against any rule,
bye-law, regulation or order made under it, whether committed within or outside the city,
shall be cognizable by a first class magistrate having jurisdiction in the city; and such
first class magistrate shall not be deemed to be incapable of taking cognizance of any
246. such offence or of any offence against any enactment hereby repealed, by reason only of
his being liable to pay the corporation rate or other tax or of his being benefited by the
325.
corporation fund to the credit of which any fine imposed by him will be payable.
Corporation security force.- (1) There shall be constituted and maintained
a force to be called the corporation security force,-
(i)
for the better protection and security of the property owned by the corporation;
(ii)
for aiding the officers of the corporation in the detection and investigation of
any matter relating to leakage of revenue or any tax payable to the corporation;
Page 132/159
----- PAGE 133 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
(iii)
for effective communication and obtaining of any information regarding any
design to commit or the commission of any offence by any person under this Act,
any rule, bye-law or regulation or order made under it.
(2)
The corporation security force shall consist of such number of supervisory
officers and members as may be determined by the corporation and shall be appointed
by the Chief Commissioner in accordance with such rules as may be prescribed.
(3)
The Chief Commissioner shall exercise powers of superintendence and control
over the corporation security force and matters relating to recruitment and conditions of
service, the conduct and discipline of the members of the security force shall be governed
by such rules as may be prescribed.
Chapter XXIV
PENALTIES
326. Penalty for violation of the Act .- Whoever contravenes any of the
provisions of this Act may be punished with an imprisonment which may extend to one
327.
year and with a fine which extend to rupees two lakhs.
Penalty for violation of the rules .- Whoever contravenes any of the
provisions of the rules made under this Act, may be punished with a fine which extend to
328.
rupees two lakhs or with an imprisonment for period upto six months or with both.
Penalty for violation of the regulations .- Whoever contravenes any of the
provisions of the regualtions made under this Act, may be punished with a fine which
329.
extend to rupees two lakhs.
Penalty for violation of the Bye-laws .- Whoever contravenes any of the
provisions of the Bye-laws made under this Act, may be punished with a fine which
330.
extend to rupees two lakhs.
Penalty for un-authorised use of the corporation property.- Whoever
dishonestly misappropriates or converts to his own use any corporation property or puts
into improper or un-authorised use such property shall, on conviction, be punished with
imprisonment which may extend to three months or with fine which may extend to fifty
331.
thousand rupees or with both.
Penalty for leaving vehicle or animal in dangerous position in public
street.- (1) No person in charge of a vehicle or animal shall cause or allow the vehicle or
animal to remain at rest on any public street or public place in such a position or in
such a condition or in such circumstances as to cause or is likely to cause danger,
obstruction or undue in-convenience or nuisance to other users of the public street and
no person in charge of a vehicle or animal shall allow any vehicle or animal to stand in a
public street or public place unless it is under adequate control.
(2)
Whoever contravenes sub-section (1) shall on conviction be punished with fine
332.
which may extend to one thousand rupees.
Compounding of offence.- Any officer authorized by the Chief
Commissioner not below the rank of Group-B officer may accept, in the prescribed
manner, from any person who has committed or it reasonably suspected of having
Page 133/159
----- PAGE 134 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
committed an offence punishable under sections 143, 286, 290 of this Act such sum of
247. money not exceeding the penalty amount specified in this Act or any sum of money as
may be prescribed, by way of composition of the offence which such person has
committed or is reasonably suspected of having committed and on the payment of such
sum of money to the authorized officer such person, if in custody, shall be set at liberty
and no further proceedings shall be taken against such person with reference to the
333.
same act.
Power to give retrospective effect to certain bye-laws and penalties for
breaches of bye-laws.- (1) Bye-laws with regard to the drainage of, and supply of water
to, buildings and water-closets, earth closets, privies, ash-pits, solid waste management
and cess-pools in connection with buildings and the keeping of water-closets supplied
with sufficient water for flushing may be made so as to affect buildings erected before the
making of bye-laws under this Act.
(2)
In making any bye-law under section 318 and this section the
corporation may provide that a breach thereof shall be punishable.-
(a)
with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees, and in case of a
continuing breach, with fine which may extend to three hundred rupees for every
day during which the breach continues after conviction for the first breach, or
(b)
with fine which may extend to two hundred rupees for every day during
which the breach continues after receipt of notice from the Chief Commissioner to
discontinue such breach.
Chapter XXV
MISCELLANEOUS
334. Indemnity to Government, Corporation authorities, officers and
servants.- No suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall lie against the
Government or any Corporation authority, officer, or servant or any person acting under
the direction of the Government or any Corporation authority, officer or servant, in
respect of anything done in good faith done or intended to be done under this Act, or any
335.
rule, bye-law, regulation or order made under it.
Sanction for prosecution of Mayor, Deputy Mayor, etc.- When the Mayor
or Deputy Mayor, or any councillor or the Chief Commissioner or any officer of
Government working in the corporation on deputation is accused of any offence alleged
to have been committed by him while acting or purporting to act in the discharging of his
official duty, no magistrate shall take cognizance of such offence except with the previous
336.
sanction of the Government.
Assessment, etc., not to be impeached.- (1) No assessment or demand
made and no charge imposed under the authority of this Act shall be impeached or
affected by reason of any clerical error or by reason of any mistake,-
(a)
in respect of the name, residence, place of business or occupation of any
person, or
(b)
in the description of any property or thing, or
(c)
in respect of the amount assessed, demanded or charged: Provided that the
Page 134/159
----- PAGE 135 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
provisions of this Act have in substance and effect been complied with and no
proceedings under this Act shall, merely for defect in form, be quashed or set aside by
any court.
(2)
No suit shall be brought in any court to recover any sum of money collected
under the authority of this Act or to recover damages on account of any assessment, or
collection of money made under the said authority:
Provided that, the provisions of this Act have in substance and effect, been
248. complied with.
(3)
No distraint or sale under this Act shall be deemed unlawful, nor shall any
person making the same be deemed a trespasser, on account of any error, defect or want
of form in the bill, notice, schedule, form, summons, notice of demand, warrant of
distraint, inventory or, other proceeding relating thereto, if the provisions of this Act, the
rules and the bye-laws have, in substance and effect been complied with:
Provided that every person aggrieved by any irregularity may recover satisfaction
337.
for any special damage sustained by him.
Duties of police officers.- It shall be the duty of every police officer,-
(a)
to communicate without delay to the appropriate corporation officer any
information which he receives of the design to commit or of the commission of
any offence under this Act or any rule, bye-law or regulations made under it;
(b)
to assist the Chief Commissioner or any corporation officer or servant or
any person to whom the Chief Commissioner has lawfully delegated
powers reasonably demanding his aid for the lawful exercise of any power
vesting in the Chief Commissioner or in such corporation officer or
servant or person under this Act or any such rule, bye-law or regulation,
and for all such purposes he shall have the same powers which he has in
338.
the exercise of his ordinary police duties.
Power of police officer to arrest persons.- (1) If any police officer sees any
person committing an offence against any of the provisions of this Act or of any rule, bye-
law or regulation made under it, he shall, if the name and address of such person are
unknown to him and if the said person on demand declines to give his name and address
or gives a name and address which such officer has reason to believe to be false, arrest
such person.
(2)
No person arrested under sub-section (1) shall be detained in custody,-
(a)
after his true name and address are ascertained, or
(b)
without the order of a magistrate for any longer time, not exceeding
twenty four hours from the hour of arrest than is necessary for bringing him
339.
before a magistrate.
Exercise of powers of police officer by corporation servants.- The
Government may empower any corporation officer or servant or any class of corporation
340.
officers or servants to exercise the powers of a police officer for the purposes of this Act.
Page 135/159
----- PAGE 136 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
Prohibition against obstruction of proceedings of corporation, standing
committee, Mayor, etc.- No person shall obstruct any proceedings of the corporation or
any standing committee, the Mayor or Deputy Mayor, and Councillor, the Chief
Commissioner or any person employed by the corporation or any person with whom the
Chief Commissioner has entered into a contract on behalf of the corporation in the
performance of their duty or of anything which they are empowered or required to do by
virtue of or in consequence of this Act or of any rule, bye-law, regulation or order made
341.
under it
Prohibition against removal of mark.- No person shall remove any mark
set up for the purpose of indicating any level or direction incidental to the execution of
342.
any work authorised by this Act or any rule, bye-law, regulation or order made under it.
Liability of Chief Commissioner, Zonal Commissioner and councillor
for loss, waste or misapplication of fund, etc.- (1) The Chief Commissioner and Zonal
Commissioner every councillor shall be liable for the loss, waste or misapplication of any
money or other property owned by or vested in the corporation, if such loss, waste, or
misapplication is a direct consequence of his willful neglect or misconduct and a suit for
compensation may be instituted against him by the corporation with the previous
249. sanction of the Government.
(2)
Every such suit shall be commenced within three years after the date
343.
on which the cause of action arose.
Prohibition against removal or obliteration of notice.- No person shall,
without authority in that behalf remove, destroy, defence or otherwise obliterate any
notice exhibited by or under the orders of the corporation, a standing committee or the
344.
Commissioner.
Prohibition against unauthorised dealings with public place or
materials.- No person shall, without authority in that behalf, remove earth, sand or
other material or deposit any matter or make any encroachment, from, in, or on any land
vested in the corporation or water-courses (not being private property), or in any way
345.
obstruct the same.
Form of notices and permissions.- All notices and permissions given,
issued or granted, as the case may be, under the provisions of this Act shall be in writing
346.
or through electronic form /online.
Proof of consent of Corporation authorities or corporation officers.-
Whenever under this Act or any rule, bye-law or regulation made under it, the doing of or
omitting to do anything or the validity of anything depends upon the approval, sanction,
consent, concurrence, declaration, opinion or satisfaction of,-
(a)
the corporation, a standing committee or the Chief Commissioner; or
(b)
any corporation officer,
a written document signed in the case of (a), by the Chief Commissioner and in
the case of (b) by the said corporation officer, purporting to convey or set forth
such approval, sanction, consent, concurrence, declaration, opinion or
347.
Page 136/159
----- PAGE 137 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
satisfaction, shall be sufficient evidence thereof.
Signature on documents.- (1) Every licence, permission, notice, bill,
, summons, warrant or other document which is required by this Act or by any
rule, bye-law or regulation made under it to bear the signature of the Chief
Commissioner or of any corporation officer shall be deemed to be properly signed if it
bears the facsimile of the signature or digital signature of the Chief Commissioner or of
such corporation officer, as the case may be, stamped thereupon.
(2)
Nothing in sub-section (1) shall be deemed to apply to a cheque
348.
drawn upon the corporation fund or to any deed of contract.
Publication of notification.- Save as otherwise provided, every notification
349.
under this Act shall be published in the official Gazette, in English and in Kannada.
Publication of order, notice or other documents.- Every order, notice or
other documents, directed to be published under this Act or any rule, bye-law or
regulation made under it shall unless a different method is prescribed by this Act or by
the corporation or the standing committee, as the case may be, be translated into
Kannada and deposited in the office of the corporation and copies thereof in English and
in Kannada shall be pasted in a conspicuous position at such office and on website of
the Corporation and at such other places as the corporation or standing committee, as
the case may be, may direct; and a public proclamation shall be made by beat of drum in
the locality affected or by advertisement in the local newspapers that such copies have
been so pasted and that the originals are open to inspection at the office of the
350.
corporation.
Publication in newspapers.- Whenever it is provided by this Act or by any
rule, bye-law or regulation made under it that notice shall be given by advertisement in
the local newspapers or that a notification or any information shall be published in the
same, such notice, notification or information shall be inserted in at least one English
351.
and one Kannada newspaper published in the city.
Notice of prohibition or setting apart of places.- Whenever the
corporation, a standing committee or the Chief Commissioner shall have set apart any
250. place for any purpose authorised by this Act or shall have prohibited the doing of
anything in any place, the Chief Commissioner shall forthwith cause to be put up a
notice in English and in Kannada at or near such place. Such notice shall specify the
352.
purpose for which such place has been set apart or the act prohibited in such place.
Method of serving documents.-(1) When any notice or other document is
required by this Act or by any rule, bye-law, regulation or order made under it to be
served on or sent to any person, the service or sending thereof may be effected,-
(a)
by giving or tendering the said document to such person; or
(b)
by e-mail or through electronic means; or
(c)
if such person is not found, by leaving such document at his last known
place of abode or business or by giving or tendering the same to his agent, clerk
or servant or some adult member of his family; or
(d)
Page 137/159
----- PAGE 138 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
if such person does not reside in the city and his address elsewhere
is known to the Commissioner, by sending the same to him by registered post; or
(e)
if none of the means aforesaid be available, by affixing the same in
some conspicuous part of such place of abode or business.
(2)
When the person is an owner or occupier of any building or land it
shall not be necessary to name the owner or occupier in the document, and in the
case of joint owners and occupiers it shall be sufficient to serve it on, or send it
to, one of such owners or occupiers.
(3)
Whenever in any bill, notice, form or other document served or sent
under this Act, a period is fixed within which any tax or other sum is to be paid
or any work executed or anything provided, such period shall, in the absence of
an express provision to the contrary in this Act, be calculated from the date of
353.
such service or sending by registered post.
Recovery by occupier of sum leviable from owners.- If the occupier of
any building or land makes on behalf of the owner thereof any payment for which under
this Act, the owner, but not the occupier is liable, such occupier shall be entitled to
recover the same from the owner and may deduct it from the rent then or thereafter due
354.
by him to the owner.
Obstruction of owner by occupier.- (1) If the occupier of any building or
land prevents the owner from carrying into effect in respect thereof any of the provisions
of this Act the Chief Commissioner may by an order require the said occupier to permit
the owner, within eight days from the date of service of such order, to execute all such
works as may be necessary.
(2)
Such owner shall, for a period during which he is prevented as
aforesaid, be exempted from any fine or penalty to which he might otherwise have
355.
become liable by reason of default, in executing such works.
Execution of work by occupier in default of owner.- If the owner of any
building or land fails to execute any work which he is required to execute under the
provisions of this Act or of any rule, bye-law, regulation or order made under it, the
occupier of such building or land may, with the approval of the Chief Commissioner,
execute the said work, and shall be entitled to recover from the owner the reasonable
expenses incurred in the execution thereof and may deduct the amount thereof from the
356.
rent then or thereafter due by him to the owner.
Time for complying with order and power to enforce in default.- (1)
Whenever by any notice, requisition or order made under this Act or under any rule, bye-
law or regulation made under it, any person is required to execute any work, or to take
any measures or do anything, a reasonable time shall be named in such notice,
requisition or order within which the work shall be executed, the measures taken, or the
thing done.
(2)
If such notice, requisition or order is not complied with within the
251. time so named, then whether or not a fine is provided for such default and
whether or not the person in default, is liable to punishment or has been
Page 138/159
----- PAGE 139 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
prosecuted or sentenced to any punishment for such default, the Chief
Commissioner may cause such work to be executed, or may take any measure or
do anything which may, in his opinion, be necessary for giving due effect to the
notice ,requisition or order as aforesaid.
(3)
If no penalty has been specially provided in this Act for failure to
comply with such notice, the said person shall, on conviction, be punished with
357.
fine not exceeding five thousand rupees for such offence.
Power of the Chief Commissioner to agree to receive payment of
expenses in instalments.- Instead of recovering any such expenses as aforesaid in the
manner provided under section 315 the Chief Commissioner may, if he thinks fit and
with the approval of the standing committee take an agreement from the person liable for
the payment thereof, to pay the same in instalments of such amounts and at such
intervals as will secure the payment of the whole amount due, with interest thereon at
358.
the rate of nine per cent per annum, within a period of not more than five years.
Power to declare expenses on certain works as improvement
expenses.- If the expenses to be recovered have been incurred or are to be incurred in
respect of any work mentioned,-
(a)
in clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 222, section 225, section 256 or
section 282; or
(b)
in any rule made under this Act in which this section is made applicable to
such expenses,
the Chief Commissioner may, if he thinks fit and with the approval of the standing
359.
committee, declare such expenses to be improvement expenses.
Improvement expenses by whom payable.- (1) Improvement expenses
shall be a charge on the premises, in respect of which or for the benefit of which the
same shall have been incurred and shall be recoverable in instalments of such amounts,
and at such intervals, as will suffice to discharge such expenses together with interest
thereon within such period not exceeding five years as the Chief Commissioner may in
each case determine.
(2)
The said instalments shall be payable by the owner or occupier of the
premises on which the expenses are charged:
Provided that when the occupier pays any such instalment he shall be
entitled to deduct the amount thereof from the rent payable by him to the owner
360.
or to recover the same from the owner.
Redemption of charge for improvement expenses.- At any time before
the expiration of the period for the payment of any improvement expenses, the owner or
occupier of the premises on which the expenses are charged may redeem such charge by
361.
paying to Commissioner such part of the said expenses as are still payable.
Application of term "public servant", to corporation officers, agents
and sub-agents.- Every councillor, officer or servant, every contractor or agent for the
collection of any corporation tax, fee or other sum due to the corporation and every
person, employed by any such contractor or agent for the collection of such tax, fee, or
Page 139/159
----- PAGE 140 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
sum shall be deemed to be a public servant within the meaning of section 21 of the
362.
Indian Penal Code.
Offences by companies.- (1) Where any offence under this Act has been
committed by a company, every person who, at the time the offence was committed, was
in charge of, and was responsible to, the company for the conduct of the business of the
company, as well as the company, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall
252.
be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly:
Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall render any such person
liable to any punishment provided in this Act if he proves that the offence was committed
without his knowledge or that he exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of
such offence.
(2)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) where an offence under
this Act has been committed by a company and it is proved that the offence has been
committed with the consent or connivance of or is attributable to any neglect on the part
of any director, manager, secretary or other officer of the company, such director,
manager, secretary or other officer shall also be deemed to be guilty of that offence and
shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.
Explanation.- For the purpose of this section,-
(a)
"company" means a body corporate, and includes a firm, a society, an
Association of persons;
(b)
"director" in relation to a firm means a partner in the firm.
363. Official display of flag.- (1) No person shall fly any flag other than the
National Flag or a flag approved by the Government on the office of the Corporation.
(2)
Whoever contravenes sub-section (1) shall be punished with imprisonment for a
term which may extend to three months or with fine which may extend to rupees five
thousand or with both and in the case of continuing contravention with a further fine
which may extend to rupees five hundred for each day during which the contravention
364.
continues.
Bidding prohibited.- (1) No employee or officer of the corporation having
any duty to perform in connection with the sale of movable or immovable property by or
on behalf of the corporation under this Act shall directly or indirectly bid for or acquire
interest in any property sold at such sale.
(2)
Any person who contravenes the provisions of sub-section (1) shall be
punished with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees and shall also be liable to
365.
dismissal from service.
Effect of absorption of Panchayat area into a Corporation area .- If any
local area consisting of one or more revenue villages in respect of which a Panchayat
1993.
areal has been constituted under the Karnataka Gram swaraj and Panchayat Raj Act,
is included in a Corporation area by virtue of a notification under sub-section (1) of
section 4 then, notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or in the Karnataka Gram
swaraj and Panchayat Raj Act, 1993 , but subject to the provisions of section 4 of this
Page 140/159
----- PAGE 141 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
Act, with effect from the date on which such area is included in a Corporation area , the
following consequences shall ensue, namely:-
(a)
the Grama Panchayat of such local area (here-inafter referred to as the
panchayat) shall cease to exist and the Taluk Panchayat and Zilla Panchayat
within the jurisdiction of which such area is situated shall cease to have
jurisdiction over such area;
(b)
the unexpended balance of the Grama Panchayat Fund and the property
(including arrears of rates, taxes and fees) belonging to the panchayat and all
rights and powers which, prior to such notification, vested in the panchayat shall,
subject to all charges and liabilities affecting the same, vest in the corporation of
the Corporation area (hereinafter referred to as the corporation);
(c)
any appointment, notification, notice, tax, order, scheme, licence,
permission, rule, bye-law or form, made, issued, imposed or granted under the
253. Karnataka Gram Swaraj and Panchayat Raj Act, 1993 , immediately before the
said date in respect of the said local area shall continue in force and be deemed to
have been made, issued, imposed or granted under this Act until it is superseded
or modified by any appointment, notification, notice, tax, order, scheme, licence,
permission, rule, bye-law or form, made, issued, imposed or granted under this
Act;
(d)
all budget estimates, assessments, assessment lists, valuations or
1993. measurements, made or authenticated under the Karnataka Panchayat Raj Act,
, immediately before the said date in respect of the said local area shall be
deemed to have been made or authenticated under this Act.
(e)
all debts and obligations incurred and all contracts made by or on behalf
of the panchayat immediately before the said date and subsisting on the said date
shall be deemed to have been incurred and made by the corporation in exercise of
the power conferred on it by this Act.
(f)
all officers and servants in the employ of the panchayat immediately
before the said date shall become officers and servants of the corporation under
this Act and shall, until other provision is made in accordance with the provision
of this Act receive salaries and allowances and be subject to the conditions of
service to which they were entitled or subject immediately before such date:
Provided that, it shall be competent to the corporation, subject to the previous
sanction of the Government to discontinue the services of any officer or servant, who, in
its opinion, is not necessary or suitable for the requirements of the service under the
corporation after giving such officer or servant such notice as is required to be given by
the terms of his employment and every officer or servant whose services are dispensed
with shall be entitled to such leave, pension, provident fund and gratuity as he would
have been entitled to take or receive on being invalidated out of service, as if the
panchayat in the employ of which he was, had not ceased to exit;
(g)
all proceedings pending on the said date before the panchayat shall be
deemed to be transferred to and shall be continued before the corporation;
(h)
all appeals pending before any authority shall, so far as may be
Page 141/159
----- PAGE 142 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
practicable, be disposed of as if the said local area had been included in the lager
urban area when they were filed;
(i)
all prosecutions instituted by or on behalf of the panchayat and all suits
or other legal proceedings instituted by or against the panchayat or any officer of
the panchayat pending on the said date shall be continued by or against the
corporation as if the said local area had been included in the Corporation area
when such prosecutions, suits or proceedings were instituted;
(j)
all arrears of rates, taxes and fees vesting in the corporation shall,
notwithstanding that such rates and fees cannot be levied under this Act, be
recoverable in the same manner as a tax recoverable under this Act;
(k)
until the reconstitution of the corporation in accordance with the
provisions of this Act, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this
Act, such number of persons ordinarily resident in the local area included in the
Corporation area who are nominated by the Government shall be additional
366.
councillors of the corporation.
Removal of difficulties.- If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the
provisions of this Act the Government may by order, published in the official Gazette, as
the occasion may require, do anything which appears to it to be necessary to remove the
254.
difficulty.
367. Metropolitan Planning Committee.- (1) The Government shall constitute a
Metropolitan Planning Committee for the Bengaluru Metropolitan Area to prepare a draft
development plan for such area as a whole.
Explanation.- For the purpose of this section "Bengaluru Metropolitan area" means
243P.
an area specified by the Governor to be a metropolitan area under clause (c) of Article
of the Constitution of India.
(2)
The Metropolitan Planning Committee shall consist of thirty persons of
which,-
(a)
such number of persons, not being less than two-thirds of the members of the
Committee, as may be specified by the Government shall be elected in the
prescribed manner by, and from amongst, the elected members of the
corporations, the Municipal Councils and town Panchayats, and the Adyakshas
and Upadyakshas of Zilla Panchayats, Taluk Panchayats and Grama Panchayats
in the Metropolitan area in proportion to the ratio between the population of the
city and other municipal area and that of the areas in the jurisdiction of Zilla
Panchayat, Taluk Panchayat and Grama Panchayat;
(b)
such number of representatives of,-
(i)
the Government of India and the State Government as may be determined
by the State Government, and nominated by the Government of India or as the
case may be, the State Government;
(ii)
such organisations and institutions as may be deemed necessary for
Page 142/159
----- PAGE 143 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
carrying out of functions assigned to the committee, nominated by the State
Government;
(3)
All the members of the House of the People and the State Legislative
Assembly whose constituencies lie within the Metropolitan area and the members
of the Council of State and the State Legislative Council who are registered as
electors in such area shall be permanent invites of the Committee.
(4)
The Commissioner, Bengaluru Development Authority shall be the
Secretary of the Committee.
(5)
The Chairman of the Metropolitan Planning Committee shall be chosen
in such manner as may be prescribed.
(6)
The Metropolitan Planning Committee shall prepare a draft development
plan for the Bengaluru metropolitan area as a whole.
(7)
The Metropolitan Planning Committee shall, in preparing the draft
development plan,-
(a)
have regard to,-
(i)
the plans prepared by the local authorities in the Metropolitan area;
(ii)
matters of common interest between the local authorities including
coordinated spatial planning of the area, sharing of water and other physical
and natural resources, the integrated development of infrastructure and
environmental conservation;
(iii)
the overall objectives and priorities set by the Government of India and the
State Government;
(iv)
the extent and nature of investments likely to be made in the Metropolitan
area by agencies of the Government of India and of the State Government and
other available resources whether financial or otherwise;
(b)
consult such institutions and organisations as the Governor may, by order,
255. specify.
(8)
The Chairman of the Metropolitan Planning Committee shall forward the
development plan, as recommended by such Committee, to the State
368.
Government.
Grievance Redressal Authority.? (1) The Government may, by notification in
the official gazette, constitute for the corporation a Grievance Redressal Authority
consisting of a retired district judge or a retired officer not below the rank of special
deputy commissioner for the purpose of Redressal of Grievance.
(2)
The Government shall provide necessary staff to the grievance redressal
authority.
(3)
Page 143/159
----- PAGE 144 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
The office of the Grievance Redressal Authority shall remain open
during the business hours of the Corporation on all working days of the week;
(4)
The salary and other allowances of the Grievance Redressal Authority
shall be the same which he was entitled to prior to his retirement minus pension;
(5)
The Grievance Redressal Authority shall communicate the decision of the
Grievance Redressal Authority to the aggrieved citizen within such period as may
be prescribed.
(6)
The Grievance Redressal Authority shall, immediately after the expiry of
the period prescribed for the communication of the decision of the Authority,
report every complaint which has not been redressed along with the details of the
complainant, nature of complaint, and reasons for non-redressal, to the Chief
Commissioner for necessary action;
(7)
Where the Grievance Redressal Authority at the time of deciding any
complaint is of the opinion that officer or officers concerned or any other person
has without any reasonable cause, willfully neglected his duties required to be
performed by him under this Act or refused or failed or malafidely denied to
extend the service urged within the time specified or within a reasonable time,
such officer or person shall be subjected to a penalty of two hundred and fifty
rupees each day till the grievance redressal. However, the total amount of such
penalty shall not exceed twenty-five thousand rupees. The Grievance Redressal
Authority may in place of the penalty recommend for disciplinary action against
the officer or the person concerned, under the service rules or relevant law
applicable to him;
Provided that the officer or the person concerned shall be given a reasonable
opportunity of being heard before any penalty is imposed on him.
Provided further that the burden of proving that he acted reasonably and
diligently shall be on the officer or the person concerned who denied the service
urged.
Explanation: For the purpose of this section: ?
(a)
?aggrieved citizen? means a citizen who has been affected by commission or
omission of the Corporation while rendering service enjoined under this Act or
any other law and includes a person seeking benefit of any scheme offered by the
Government through the Corporation ;
(b)
?grievances? means and includes any complaint lodged by a aggrieved citizen
regarding the commission or omission of action required to be taken by the
Corporation in respect of: ?
(i)
maintenance of health;
(ii)
maintenance of Road;
(iii)
maintenance of street lights;
(iv)
identification of beneficiaries of any scheme or project;
(v)
Page 144/159
----- PAGE 145 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
allocation of benefit of any scheme or project;
256
(vi)
maintenance of sanitation;
(vii)
grant or issue of any documents or certificate;
(viii)
any other matter as may be prescribed.
369. Powers and functions of the Grievance Redressal Authority , ? (1) the
Grievance Redressal Authority may: ?
(a)
call for and examine any document which he has reason to believe
necessary to redress the grievance of an aggrieved citizen;
(b)
The Grievance Redressal Authority shall, for the purposes of performing
the functions under this Act, have the same powers as are vested in a civil court
under the code of civil procedure, 1908 in respect of the following matters,
namely:-
(i)
summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person and examining him
on oath;
(ii)
discovery and production of any document or other material object
producible as evidence;
(iii)
receiving evidence on affidavits;
(iv)
requisitioning of any public record;
(v)
issuing commission for the examination of witnesses;
(vi)
reviewing its decisions, directions and orders;
(vii)
such other matter which may be prescribed;
(2)
The Grievance Redressal Authority shall be a quasi judicial authority
and dispose off the matters before him summarily.
(3)
No complaint of the aggrieved citizen shall be entertained by the Grievance
Redressal Authority unless the grievance has occurred as a result of deficiency
negligence or malfeasance on the part of a office or officer or official or specific
irregularity or benefit materially affecting the outcome or specific instance of
discrimination is indicated.
(4)
The Grievance Redressal Authority shall ensure that, ?
(a)
the grievance is remedied in a time frame not exceeding ninety days
from the date of receipt of the complaint; or
(b)
the reason for the occurrence of the grievance is identified and the
responsibility of the defaulting office or individual is fixed and the grievance is
Page 145/159
----- PAGE 146 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
redressed satisfactorily within one month after the period specified in clause (a)
or
(c)
where the grievance has occurred as a result of a deficiency, negligence
or malfeasance on the part of an office or individual the action is taken in
accordance with conduct rules and departmental procedures; and
(d)
where the individual responsible for the delivery of the goods and
services has willfully neglected to deliver the good or service or there exist prima
facie grounds for a case under the Prevention of Corruption Act 1988, he can
make an observation to that effect along with a recommendation for the penalty
to be imposed,-
(i)
upto Group ?B? Officer to the Chief Commissioner;
(ii)
Group ?A? and above officer to the Principal Secretary to Government or
the Secretary to Government, as the case may be.
(5)
The Grievance Redressal Authority may seek the assistance of any
other officer required for the proper discharge of his duties or may direct any
other officer to take action to redress a complaint made by aggrieved citizen;
(6)
Any officer, whose assistance has been sought under sub-section (5),
257. shall render all assistance to the grievance redress authority.
370. Appeal,? (1) Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Grievance
Redressal Authority or who has not received an action taken report in respect of a
complaint filed by him, may within a period of thirty days from the expiry of the receipt of
such decision, prefer an appeal to the Karnataka Appellate Tribunal and the decision of
such appellate authority shall be final:
Provided that, the Appellate authority may admit the appeal after the expiry
of thirty days if it is satisfied that the complainant was prevented by sufficient
reason or cause from filing the appeal in time.
(2)
Every appeal shall be disposed of within ninety days from the date of
receipt of such appeal.
(3)
The appellate authority shall arrange to deliver copies of the decisions to
the parties concerned within a period of fifteen working days from the date of
371.
decisions taken by him.
Term of office of the Grievance Redressal Authority,? The Grievance
Redressal Authority shall hold office for a term of five years from the date on which he
assumes office or till he attains the age of sixty five years whichever is earlier and shall
372.
not be eligible for re-appointment.
Resignation and removal, ? (1) The Grievance Redressal Authority may
by notice in writing under his hand addressed to the Government resign his office.
(2)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), the Government
may, by order, remove the Grievance Redressal Authority from the office of the
Grievance Redressal Authority , if he,-
Page 146/159
----- PAGE 147 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
(a)
is adjudged as an insolvent; or
(b)
has been convicted of an offence which, in the opinion of the
Government, involves moral turpitude; or
(c)
engages during his term of office in any paid employment outside the
duties of his office; or
(d)
is, in the opinion of the government, unfit to continue in office by
reason of infirmity of mind or body; or
(e)
has acquired such financial or other interest as is likely to affect
373.
prejudicially his functions as the Grievance Redressal Authority.
Procedures before the Grievance Redressal Authority , ? (1) The
procedure and manner of filing a complaint and fees to be accompanied with such
complaint shall be such as may be prescribed.
(2)
The manner and procedure of conducting proceedings before the Grievance
374.
Redressal Authority shall be such as may be prescribed.
Matters not subject to investigation.- The Grievance Redressal
Authority shall not investigate any matter,-
(i)
which the Lokayukta or the uplokayukta is investigating under the
provisions of the Karnataka Lokayukta Act, 1984 (Karnataka Act 4 of 1985); or
(ii)
which is being investigated by a Competent Authority under any
375.
provisions of the Central Act or State enactments.
Transitory provisions.- (1) Any rule, notification, order or appointment,
made or issued under the Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act, 1976 (Karnataka of 14
of 1977) and Rules made there under or otherwise providing for or relating to any of
the matters for the furtherance of which this Act is enacted, before the date of
commencement of this Act and in force on the date of commencement of this Act, to
258. the extent they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, shall continue
to be in force and effective as if they are made or issued or appointed under the
corresponding provisions of this Act unless and until superseded by anything done or
any action taken or any rules, notification, order or appointment made under this Act.
(2)
Where, under the provisions of the Karnataka Municipal Corporations
Act, 1976 (Karnataka of 14 of 1977) either an Administrator or a person has been
appointed to exercise the powers and perform the duties of the Corporation, ,
then, such administrator or person shall be deemed to be an Administrator
appointed under section 127 not exceeding for a period of one year.
(3)
All officers and servants in the employment of the Bruhat Banagalore
Mahanagara Palike immediately before the commencement of this Act, shall
become officers and servants of the Corporation under this Act and shall, until
other provision is made in accordance with the provisions of this Act, receive
Page 147/159
----- PAGE 148 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
salaries and allowances and be subject to the conditions of service to which they
were entitled to immediately before such date:
Provided that it shall be competent to the Corporation, subject to the
previous sanction of the Government, to discontinue the services of any officer or
servant who, in its opinion, is not necessary or suitable for the requirements of
the service under it after giving such officer or servant such notice as is required
to be given by the terms of his employment and every officer or servant whose
services are dispensed with shall be entitled to such leave, pension, provident
fund and gratuity as he would have been entitled to take or receive on being
invalidated out of service, as if the Corporation, in the employ of which he was,
had not ceased to exist.
(4)
All assets and liabilities of the Bruhat Bengaluru mahanagara palike
14. constituted under the Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act, 1976 (Karnataka of
376.
of 1977 shall stand transferred to the Corporation constituted under this Act.
Repeal and Savings.- (1) The provisions of the Karnataka Municipal
Corporations Act, 1976 (Karnataka of 14 of 1977) pertaining to the Bruhath Bengaluru
Mahanagara Palike are hereby repealed.
Provided that, such repeal shall not affect,-
(a)
anything done or any action taken under the said Act; or
(b)
the previous operation of the said Act or anything duly done or suffered
thereunder; or
(c)
any right, privilege, obligation or liability acquired, accrued or incurred under
the said Act; or
(d)
any penalty or punishment incurred in respect of any offence committed
under the said Act:
Provided further that, the provisions of section 6 of the Karnataka General
Clauses Act, 1899 (Karnataka Act III of 1899) shall be applicable in respect of
repeal of the said Act.
Provided also that subject to the preceding proviso anything done or any
action taken (including any appointment or delegation made, tax, duty, fee, or
cess imposed, notification, order, instrument, or direction issued, rule,
regulation, form, bye-law or scheme framed, certificate obtained, permit or licence
granted or registration effected) under the said enactments shall be deemed to
have been done or taken under the corresponding provisions of this Act and shall
continue to be in force accordingly unless and until superseded by anything done
or any action taken under this Act :
Provided also that, notwithstanding anything contained in the preceding
259. provisos where any tax, duty, fee or cess other than a duty on transfers of
immovable properties has been imposed under the said enactments at a rate
higher than the maximum rate permissible under this Act, such tax, duty, fee or
cess may continue to be imposed and collected at such higher rate unless and
until superseded by anything done or any action taken under this Act :
(2)
Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), any
tax, duty, fee, or cess imposed under the said Act may, notwithstanding that
Page 148/159
----- PAGE 149 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
such tax, duty, fee or cess cannot be imposed under the provisions of this Act, be
continued to be levied and recovered as if the provisions of such enactments, the
rules, bye-laws, orders and notifications made or issued thereunder relating to
such levy and recovery had not been repealed.
FIRST SCHEDULE
(See section 107 )
(A)
Core Functions.-
i. Urban planning including town planning,
ii. Regulation of land-use including protection of public land from encroachment
and construction of buildings,
iii. Planning for economic and social development,
iv. Roads including footpath and road crossing facilities for pedestrians and
bridges,
v. Water supply for domestic, industrial and commercial purposes,
vi. Public health, sanitation including storm water drains, conservancy and solid
and liquid waste management,
vii. Fire services,
viii. Urban forestry, protection of the environment, promotion of ecological aspects
and maintenance of environmental hygiene,
ix. Safeguarding the interests of persons with physical and mental disabilities,
x. Slum improvement and upgradation including providing basic facilities,
xi. Urban poverty alleviation,
xii. Provision and maintenance of urban amenities and facilities such as parks,
gardens, playgrounds, public markets, bathing and washing ghats, waiting
sheds for travellers,
xiii. Promotion of cultural, educational and aesthetic aspects,
xiv. Establishment and maintenance of burial and burning grounds, cremations,
cremation grounds and electric crematoriums,
xv. Cattle pounds, prevention of cruelty to animals,
xvi. Collection and updating of vital statistics including registration of births,
deaths and marriages,
xvii. Provision and maintenance of public amenities including street lighting,
parking spaces for vehicles, bus stops and public conveniences like toilet
facilities at public places,
xviii. Regulation of slaughter houses and tanneries and sale of meat, fish and other
perishable food stuffs among others.
(B)
General Functions.-
i. Organising voluntary workers and promote community participation in all
development activities,
ii. Organise campaign for thrift,
iii. Awareness building against social evils such as dowry, domestic violence, abuse of
children, casteism, homophobia, and xenophobia,
iv. Organize legal awareness campaigns among weaker sections, campaign against
260. economic offences, adherence to civic duties, and promoting communal harmony,
v. Organise relief activities during natural calamities and maintain relief centres like
hospitals, dispensaries, asylums, rescue homes, maternity houses and child
welfare centres, etc.,
vi. Mobilising local resources in cash or in kind,
vii. Organise and promote resident welfare associations, neighbourhood groups and
Page 149/159
----- PAGE 150 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
committees, and self-help groups with focus on the poor,
viii. Disclosure and dissemination of information of public interest,
ix. Maintenance of public properties,
x. Issue of licence to dangerous and offensive trades and industries,
xi. Issue of licence to domestic pet animals,
xii. Conservation and preservation of water bodies,
xiii. Conservation and preservation of places and buildings of historical and cultural
importance,
xiv. Promoting energy efficiency and build awareness on climate change,
xv. Promote introduction of Information Technology and e-Governance in the working
of the Corporation.
(C)
Sector-wise functions.-
(i)
Urban Planning including Town Planning:
(a)
Planned development of new areas for human settlement, erection and
maintenance of boundary marks defining the limits or any alteration in the
limits,
(b)
Measures for beautification of the corporation area by setting up fountains,
providing recreational areas, improving river banks, and landscaping,
(c)
Integration of the development plans and schemes of the municipal area
with the district or regional development plan,
(d)
Preparation and keeping upto date of appropriate maps, data and records of
lands within corporation and utility to which such lands are from time to
time put;
(ii)
Environment and Social Forestry:
(a)
Organise campaigns for environmental awareness,
(b)
Motivating local action for its upgradation, planting of trees, etc.,
(c)
Reclamation of waste lands, promotion of social forestry and maintenance of
open spaces,
(d)
Establishment and maintenance of nurseries, promotion of greenery;
(iii)
Small Scale Industries:
(a)
Promotion of handicrafts,
(b)
Formulate and implement self-employment schemes in industrial sector,
(c)
Implementation of the entrepreneur development programmes;
(iv)
Housing:
(a)
Page 150/159
----- PAGE 151 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
Identify the homeless, provision of house sites and houses, implementation
of shelter rejuvenation programmes,
(b)
Mobilise fund necessary for housing;
(v)
Education and Culture:
(a)
Run the pre-primary, primary, higher secondary and technical schools,
vocational training centres, and implement literacy programmes,
(b)
Promote civic education, adult education, social education and nonformal
261. education,
(c)
Promotion of cultural activities including music, physical education, sports
and theatres and infrastructure therefor,
(d)
Advancement of science and technology in urban life,
(e)
Organization, establishment and maintenance of art galleries and botanical
or zoological collections,
(f)
Maintenance of corporation office, and of all public monuments and places
of historical, artistic and other importance,
(g)
Presentation of awards to persons of distinction, paying homage on death to
persons of repute,
(h)
Holding and regulation of fairs, festivals, industrial and health exhibitions;
(vi)
Public Works:
(a)
Construct and maintain the roads except National Highways, State
Highways and major District roads within the corporation, and buildings
for institutions including those transferred from Government.
(vii)
Public Health and Sanitation:
(a)
Run dispensaries, primary and public health centres and hospitals under
all systems of medicines, child welfare centres and mother care homes,
(b)
Organise remedial and other preventive measures against disease,
(c)
Implement family welfare programmes,
(d)
Organise mass inoculation campaigns for eradication of infectious diseases,
(e)
Reclamation of unhealthy localities, removal of noxious vegetation and
abatement of all nuisances,
(f)
Maintenance of all public tanks and regulating the reexcavation, repair and
up-keep of all tanks, wells and other sources of water-supply and provision
Page 151/159
----- PAGE 152 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
for unfiltered water supply for non-domestic uses,
(g)
Public vaccination, prophylactic inoculations, vector control
(h)
Maintenance of ambulance service,
(i)
Advancement of civic consciousness of public health and general welfare by
organizing discourses, seminars and conferences,
(j)
Prevention of food adulteration and control of eating-houses,
(k)
Effective implementation of national and state strategies and programmes
for prevention and control of diseases;
(viii)
Social Welfare:
(a)
Run Anganwadis, and institutions for the welfare of persons with disability,
urban poor among others;
(b)
Sanction and distribute pension to persons with disability, widows, urban
poor, distribute unemployment wages, and implement Group Insurance
Scheme to the poor,
(c)
Implementation of programmes for liberation and rehabilitation of
scavengers and their families,
(d)
Campaigns for dissemination of information, vital for public welfare,
(e)
Securing or removal of dangerous buildings and places, obstructions and
262. projections in or upon streets, bridges and other public places;
(ix)
Eradication of poverty:
(a)
Develop skills and implement self-employment and group employment
schemes for the poor, especially for women,
(b)
Create community assets to get continuing benefit to the poor;
(x)
Development of Persons belonging to Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe:
(a)
Implementation of beneficiary-oriented schemes under Special Component
Plan (SCP) and Tribal Sub Plan (TSP) and provide basic facilities in the
residential centres and financial assistance for the Scheduled Caste/
d Tribe,
(b) Run nursery schools, vocational training centres for the Scheduled
Caste/Scheduled Tribe;
(xi)
Public Distribution System:
(a)
Examine complaints against public distribution system and find out and
implement remedial measures,
Page 152/159
----- PAGE 153 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
(b)
Organise campaigns against offences relating to weights and measures,
(c)
General supervision of shops and other public distribution system and to
provide guidance;
(xii)
Disaster Relief:
(a)
Maintain relief centres and organise relief activities like provision to
hospitals, dispensaries, asylums, rescue homes, maternity houses, and
child welfare centres, crematorium, burial ground among others.
SECOND SCHEDULE
(See section 302 )
GRADE-I GRADE-II GRADE-III HERITAGE PRECINCTS
Definition Heritage
Grade-I
comprises
buildings and
precincts of
national or
historic
importance,
embodying
excellence in
architectural
style, design,
technology and
material usage
and/or
aesthetics;
they may be
associated with
a historic
event,
personality,
movement or
institution.
They have been
and are the
Heritage Grade-
II comprises of
buildings
and precincts of
regional or local
importance
possessing
special
architectural or
aesthetic merit,
or cultural or
historical
Page 153/159
----- PAGE 154 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
significance
though of a
lower scale than
Heritage Grade-I.
They are local
landmarks,
which contribute
to the image and
identity of the
region. They may
be the work of
master crafts
folks or may be
Heritage Grade-
III comprises
buildings
and precincts of
importance for
townscape; that
evoke
architectural
aesthetic, or
sociological
interest though
not as much as
in Heritage
Grade-II. These
contribute to
determine the
character of the
locality and can
be
representative
of lifestyle of a
particular
community or
region and may
also be
A heritage precinct is
an area of heritage
value. It may consist
of a number of
buildings and
spaces, such as
streets, with cultural
or heritage
significance worth
recognition and
conservation, or it
may be an area
where the
Page 154/159
----- PAGE 155 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
relationship between
various elements,
creates a special
sense of place like
mass, scale, building
material, typology,
roof profile and
shapes or containing
architectural style or
elements. Precincts
are of different
263. importance and are
prime
landmarks of
the region.
All natural sites
shall fall within
Grade-I.
models of
proportion and
ornamentation
or designed to
suit a particular
climate.
distinguished by
setting, or
special
Character of the
façade and
uniformity of
height, width
and scale.
made up of different
types of elements
such as houses,
trees, commercial
properties and public
spaces combining to
create a unique
significance.
Objective Deserves careful
preservation
Deserves intelligent
conservation
Deserves
intelligent
conservation
(though
on a lesser scale
than Grade-II
and special
Page 155/159
----- PAGE 156 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
protection to
unique
features and
attributes)
Precincts deserve
appropriate repair
and maintenance
and very sensitive
development i.e.
regarding the mass,
scale
and setting. It also
requires
conservation of its
heritage and
cultural significance
Scope for
Change
No interventions
shall be
permitted
either on
exterior or
interior of the
heritage
building or
natural features
unless it is
necessary in
the interest of
strengthening and
prolonging the life
of
the buildings/or
precincts or any
Part or ? features
thereof. For
this purpose,
absolutely
essential
and minimum
changes shall
be allowed and
they must be in
conformity with
the original
Grade-II(A):
Internal changes
and
adaptive re-use
may
Page 156/159
----- PAGE 157 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
be allowed, subject
to strict
scrutiny. Care
should be taken
to ensure the
conservation of
all special
aspects for
which it is included
in
Heritage Grade-II.
Grade-II(B):
In addition to the
above, extension
or additional
building on the
same plot or
compound may
in
certain
circumstances,
be allowed provided
that the
extension /
additional
building is in
harmony with
(and does not
detract from) the
Internal changes
and adaptive
re-use may
by and large be
allowed. Changes
may include
extensions and
additional
buildings on
the same plot
or compound.
However,
any changes
should be such
that they are in
harmony and
should be such
that they do not
detract from the
existing
heritage
building/
Page 157/159
----- PAGE 158 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
precinct
especially in terms
of height and
façade and
provided that
the
extension/
additional
building is not
larger than the
original
building in
Sensitive additions,
alterations,
extensions and
interior renovations
shall be permissible
but these should
not alter the
character of the
building/ precinct.
The new
interventions may
be contemporary
but subtle or
inspired by the
original character
and not tasteless
imitation.
Reconstruction is
permissible but only
for buildings that
are totally
structurally unsafe
as
certified by a
Structural Engineer
and corroborated by
the Heritage
Conservation
Committee. The
reconstruction
should not follow
the prevailing
264. byelaws but should
existing heritage
building/(s) or
precincts especially
in
terms of height and
façade and
Page 158/159
----- PAGE 159 -----
THE BRUHAT BENGALURU MAHANAGARA PALIKE ACT, 2020
provided that the
additional
building is not
larger than the
original building
in terms
of mass and scale.
mass and scale be in such a
manner which
ensures that the
building/ precinct
character is not
diminished, yet
allows for growth
and good urban
design.
Urban Design
Guidelines should
be prepared
separately for each
of the listed heritage
precincts as
extension of the bye
laws. All
constructions
within heritage
precincts should be
governed by the
said guidelines
2020.
The above translation of ? ?? ? ??? ? ??,
(2020? ? ?? ? ?? 53) shall be authoritative text in the
English language under clause (3) of Article 348 of the Constitution of India.
VAJUBHAI VALA
GOVERNOR OF KARNATAKA
By Order and in the name of
the Governor of Karnataka,
(K. DWARAKANATH BABU)
Secretary to Government
Department of Parliamentary Affairs
and Legislation
???????? ???? ?????????:- ???????????????, ??????? ?????????, ??????? ??????? ?????????, ????????.
R.N.I. No. KARBIL/2001/47147 POSTAL REGN. No. RNP/KA/BGS/2202/2017-19
Licensed to post without prepayment WPP No. 297
SUNIL GARDE Digitally signed by SUNIL GARDE
Date: 2020.12.21 18:12:22 +05'30'
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 159/159