
----- PAGE 1 -----
Ladakh Budhists Succession to Property Act, 2000
Ladakh Budhists Succession to Property Act, 2000
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/108595084/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
UT Ladakh - Act
Ladakh Budhists Succession to Property Act, 2000
LADAKH
India
Ladakh Budhists Succession to Property Act, 2000
Act 28 of 2000
Published on 14 June 2000
Commenced on 14 June 2000
[This is the version of this document from 14 June 2000.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Ladakh Budhists Succession to Property Act, 2000
(Act No. 28 of 2000)
[Dated 14th June, 2000]
An Act to define and amend in certain respects the law relating to succession to property of the Budhists of Ladakh.
Preamble. - Whereas it is expedient to define and amend in certain respects the law relating to succession to property of
the Budhists of Ladakh; It is hereby enacted as follows :-
1.
Short Title, Extent and applicatio.
- (i) This Act may be called as the Ladakh Budhists Succession to Property Act, 2000.
(ii)
It shall extend to the whole of Jammu and Kashmir.
Page 1/2
----- PAGE 2 -----
Ladakh Budhists Succession to Property Act, 2000
2.
Definitions.
- In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context,-
(a)
"Budhists" means a person who professes the Budhists faith or religion;
(b)
"Ladakh" means the District of Ladakh.
3.
Right to all sons to succeed in equal Shares.
- On the death of a Budhists his property, where he leaves more than one son, shall notwithstanding any law or custom
to the contrary but subject to any valid disposition there of which he may have made during his life time, be inherited by
all his sons in equal shares:
Provided that sons, sons of pre-deceased sons, and sons of pre-deceased sons of predeceased sons , shall inherit per
strips, that is to say, the sons of pre-deceased son shall take the share which would have taken by him and likewise the
grandsons of a pre-deceased son shall take the share which their father would have taken.
4.
Saving.
- The Provisions of this Act shall not affect any right of succession accrued or any title of property acquired before the
commencement of this Act.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 2/2