
----- PAGE 1 -----
Goa, Daman and Diu Treasure-Trove Rules, 1975
Goa, Daman and Diu Treasure-Trove Rules, 1975
Source: https://indiankanoon.org/doc/50305916/
Skip to main content
Legal Document View
Tools for analyzing structure and cite text of judgments
Unlock Advanced Research with
PRISM
AI
Integrated with over 4 crore judgments and laws ? designed for legal practitioners, researchers, students and institutions
-
Know your Kanoon
-
Doc Gen Hub
-
Counter Argument
-
Case Predict AI
-
Talk with IK Doc
-
...
Upgrade to Premium
[Cites
0
, Cited by
0
]
Daman and Diu - Act
Goa, Daman and Diu Treasure-Trove Rules, 1975
DAMAN AND DIU
India
Goa, Daman and Diu Treasure-Trove Rules, 1975
Published in Gazette of India Goa, Daman and Diu Treasure-Trove Rules, 1975 on 30 September 1976
Commenced on 30 September 1976
[This is the version of this document from 30 September 1976.]
[Note: The original publication document is not available and this content could not be verified.]
Goa, Daman and Diu Treasure-Trove Rules, 1975
Published vide Notification Official Gazette, Series 1 No. 27 dated 30-9-1976
No. ...... In exercise of the powers conferred by section 19 of the Indian Treasure-trove Act, 1878 (IV of 1878), the
Lieutenant Governor of Goa, Daman and Diu is pleased to make the following rules, namely:-
1.
Short title, extent and commencement.
(1)
These rules may be called the Goa, Daman and Diu Treasure-Trove Rules, 1975.
(2)
They extend to the whole of the Union territory of Goa, Daman and Diu.
(3)
They shall come into force at once.
Page 1/3
----- PAGE 2 -----
Goa, Daman and Diu Treasure-Trove Rules, 1975
2.
Definitions.
- In these rules unless the context otherwise requires:-
(a)
"Act" means the Indian Treasure-trove Act, 1878 (VI of 1878);
(b)
"Government" means the Government of Goa, Daman and Diu;
(c)
"Section" means a section of Act;
(d)
"Superintending Archaeologist" means Superintending Archaeologist, Archaeological Survey of India, Government of
India, within whose jurisdiction the treasure has been found;
(e)
"Treasure-trove Officer" means the Director of Archives, Government of Goa, Daman and Diu.
(f)
"Union territory" means the Union territory of Goa, Daman and Diu.
3.
Collector's Report.
- On receipt of any notice under section 4, or on receipt of information from any person other than the finder, that a
treasure has been found, the Collector shall report the fact to the Government, the Superintendent and the
"Treasure-trove Officer" stating as far as the information at his disposal permits:-
(a)
the name of the finder,
(b)
the nature and details of treasure,
(c)
the approximate value of the treasure,
(d)
the date of the finding of the treasure,
(e)
the origin and surrounding of the treasure.
4.
Publication of Notification.
- Every notification under clause (a) of section 5 shall be published at the local police station, at the Office of the
Collector or equivalent Officer within whose jurisdiction the treasure was found, and also at some conspicuous spot in
the village in which it was found.
5.
Report of the Treasure-trove Officer and Superintendent within 60 days of the receipt of such information from the
Collector, the Treasure-trove Officer and Superintendent shall arrange for inspection of the treasure and shall submit
their report, individually or jointly to the Collector whether the treasure or any part thereof should be acquired by the
Government.
6.
Acquisition of Treasure.
(1)
The Collector shall, before acquiring or making a declaration under section 16 of his intention to acquire on behalf of the
Government any treasure or any part thereof, obtain the orders of the Government.
(2)
If the Government decides to acquire such treasure or any part thereof, whether on report of the Treasure-trove Officer
and Superintending Archaeologist or otherwise, the Government shall accordingly inform the Collector, who after making
the declaration under section 9 and complying with provision of section 16, shall as soon as possible, forward the
treasure of any part thereof so acquired either to the Treasure-trove Officer of any other centre which the Government
Page 2/3
----- PAGE 3 -----
Goa, Daman and Diu Treasure-Trove Rules, 1975
may specify in this behalf.
7.
Distribution of Treasure.
- The Treasure-trove Officer, in the event of the Government deciding to acquire the treasure or any part thereof, shall
recommend to Government its distribution among the Museums and Institutions in the following order of priorities:-
(a)
Principal Museum of the Union Territory and National Museum in recommending allocations to the Museum of Union
territory, the Treasure-trove Officer shall take into consideration that the objects to be given to the Museum of the Union
territory are of Union territory or regional interest and those to be given to the National Museum are of national
importance.
(b)
Other Museums in the Union territory managed by the Government or other public authorities, including Universities in
the Union territory.
(c)
Principal State Museums of other States and the Indian Museum Calcutta.
(d)
Other Museums of other States maintained by the Government or other Public authorities, including Universities.
(e)
Other Museums.
8.
Sale.
- The Government, after assessing the needs of the Museums and institutions mentioned in rule 7, may in consultation
with the Treasure-trove Officer and the Superintending Archaeologist place a part of treasure acquired under sub-rule
(2) of rule 6 or otherwise for sale to the public after notifying the proposed sale in such manner as it may deem fit.
9.
Price.
- The price of the finds notified for sale shall be fixed by the Government after consulting the Treasure-trove Officer and
the Superintendent and shall be specified against each item in the notification of the proposed sale and the amount
realised by such sale shall be credited to the Consolidated Fund of the Union territory.
10.
Returns.
- The Treasure-trove Officer shall send a consolidated report of the treasure found during the financial year to the
Government of India, Department of Culture, Ministry of Education, Social Welfare & Culture, this report shall include a
brief summary of the results of the examination of Treasure-trove finds during the year under review, and shall also
include their classification by their material and roughly by the class to which they belong. The report shall also give a
short account of any notable Treasure-trove finds and their distribution during the year.
Related AI tags, queries and research notes
Translation
Page 3/3